We Build Tomorrow HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Overall Business Sustainable Management Activities Hyundai E&C strives to provide sustainable management across all areas of our business operations. Hyundai E&C not only strives to create short-term profit, but we are also dedicated to the maximization of our corporate value in the midto long-term perspectives through sustainable management activities. Management Policy Business Management Green Value Carbon Management Strategy by Hyundai E&C Energy Reduction Design Applying the Integrated Management System at the BIPV (Building Integrated Photovoltaic) System for corporate level (division and onsite) combining ISO 14001, Securing Visibility: About 12% energy reduction when KS I 7001·7002, and ISO 50001 from 2012 applied to the a 45 Acreage apartments P.13 P. 26 Enforcing the Green Purchasing Process Green Home System Approximately 24.6 billion won of Green Purchasing Undertaking the Green Hillstate Project Performance in 2011 (a 73% increase from 2010) (A total energy reduction of 30% in 2011) P. 29 P. 34 Win-Win Cooperation Raising Safety Awareness and the Prevention of Social Value Raising 38 billion won for a Win-Win growth fund to give Accidents through System Improvement support to financially challenged suppliers. Permit to Work: Monthly accident average decreased from 6.6 (prior to enforcement) to 3.7 P. 47 P. 46 Communication with Suppliers Selection of Suppliers Collection and Review of difficulties and suggestions from Ensuring equity in distributing opportunities to all suppliers suppliers through the suppliers Association with 8 branches by clarifying the company-selection procedure and 295 suppliers P. 47 P. 48 Endeavors for the Internalization of Setting a cooperation system to share with Economic Value Ethical Management the companies in the Group Ethical Management and Anti-corruption training Ensuring stable fundamentals for business management participants in 2011 totaled 8,209 through cooperation with the companies in the Group P. 61 P. 66 Fair Trade Compliance Program (CP) Infrastructure Investment The CEO's declaration of and employees’ promises to the Job creation and production through infrastructure Fair Trade Compliance Program. investment P. 61 P. 65 Achievement and Evaluation Future Growth Responses to Climate Change Expansion of Research Personnel and the Budget Earning the CTS(Carbon Trust Standard) Certificate for the R&D budget 2011: about 18.3 billion won (an 85% increase first time as a Korean company from last year), research personnel: 93 persons (a 24% increase from last year) P.12 P. 22 Major R&D Achievement Development of Eco-friendly Technology Commercialization of various R&D achievements such as the Cost reduction and activation of information sharing on decreased amount of energy use, decreased CO2 emissions, eco-friendly technology development through co-research and utilization of renewable energy with companies in the Group P. 24 P. 22 Distribution of Induced Economic Value Securing Human Resources among Stakeholders Employing 263 university graduates and 101 employees Total amount of economic values distribution in 2011: with experience in 2011 8 trillion won and 318.7 billion won P. 40 P. 64 Fair Evaluation of Performance Raising Global Leaders Achievement evaluation and Performance evaluation upon Average hours of education per person in 2011: 174.9 hrs, competence diagnostic perspectives through the predefined Average cost for education per person: 1.19 million won performance evaluation program regardless of employment relationship and position P. 41 P. 42 10 Trillion Won in Sales for 2 Consecutive Years Reinforcing Expansion by Marketing to 10 trillion won and 104.6 billion won in 2011 sales Developing Countries Dominating the market and obtaining large scale orders P. 66 through strengthening expansion into Africa, South America and CIS regions P. 67 Ranked 1st by the construction performance Reinforcing Entry into Eco-friendly Markets evaluation for 4 years in a row Reinforcing entry into eco-friendly markets as a The highest rank for the company’s business future growth power management skill and performance P. 68 P. 66 Integrated Report Following its previous publication in 2011, Hyundai E&C Sustainability Report 2012 has been written using an integrated reporting format. By utilizing this format, the report now assures that a wider range of complete coverage reporting is available concerning financial and nonfinancial performance. Additionally, this format allows for further in-depth reporting by disclosing the relationship between the two through organic combination. In addition, the introduction of the concept of integrated reporting allowed Hyundai E&C to evaluate its short-term performance and long-term sustainability, helping to adhere to advanced reporting. Integrated Reporting Framework Integrated Reporting 2. G es dV Economy alu ree Integrated Engagement dde nG Integrated Strategy 1. A row Integration of financial and th Establishment of management non-financial information Sustainable strategies for creating long-term values Growth Collection of stakeholders’ Provision of concise and reliable comments information based on materiality Society Environment 3. Life Quality 1. Added Values 2. Green Growth 3. Life Quality Increase in overseas employment and Unit cost analysis of environmental Improvement in the quality of life production inducement resulting from achievement based on financial through the construction and operation overseas market expansion performance of a green management system Improved quality competitiveness through Business outcomes of eco-friendly R&D Sustainable, inclusive growth by active support for suppliers constructing an eco-friendly supply chain Diversification of businesses by finding Improved productivity through the fair eco-friendly markets Enhancement of employees’ evaluation of employees' performance competence through green training *By participating in the Integrated Reporting Pilot Programme held by the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council), Hyundai E&C endeavors to strengthen the content power of corporate reports and become a global leader of the Integrated Reporting field. 2012 Cover Story Hyundai E&C is committed to realizing the hope for tomorrow, in which economic, environmental, and social issues are resolved in harmony to the greater benefit of all. The image represents Hyundai E&C’s sustainable commitment to making our hopes come true. Table of Contents We Build Tomorrow CEO Message 02 Company Profile 04 Introduction of Major Operations 05 Management Philosophies & Core Values 06 Stakeholders’ Participation 07 Materiality Analysis 08 2012 Carbon Management 10 To Build Social value 38 Responses to Climate Change 11 Creating Employee Value 40 Carbon Management Strategy 13 Corporate Culture 43 Carbon Emissions Management 14 Safety Management 45 Carbon Management Performances 15 Win-Win Cooperation 47 Customer Satisfaction Management 49 Social Contribution 52 To Build Green Value 16 To Build Economic Value 56 Green Management System 18 Stability 58 Eco-Friendly Technology Development 22 Public Benefit 64 Eco-Friendly Design 26 Economic Feasibility 66 Eco-Friendly Materials 28 Eco-Friendly Transportation 30 Eco-Friendly Construction 31 69 Eco-Friendly Building Operation 34 Eco-Friendly Removal 36 Appendix Eco-Friendly Supply Chain 37 2 CEO Message Greetings to all! As the ‘Leader of the Construction Industry’ of Korea for the past 65 years, Hyundai E&C has promoted its unique, challenging spirit and belief while retaining its constant status as the top construction company in Korea. Hyundai E&C has led the consistent development of the construction industry to date and will continue to lead. However, due to the global economic crisis and changes in the construction market, Hyundai E&C has now come to understand its new task, which is to embrace fresh changes and challenges that are distinct from its conventional business management strategies. Providing its associates with new values that are not just bound for shortsighted economic prosperity but for long-ranged, consistent improvement, Hyundai E&C will not stop striving to become a revered construction company, not only within Korea but on the global stage as well. Hyundai E&C’s challenge and passion to actualize sustainable management that leads the age Hyundai E&C’s challenge and passion to actualize sustainable management will lead it towards consistent growth through its durable internal stability and as a global engineering company, Hyundai E&C will lead convergence with future technologies through its indispensible support of related industries. Following the company’s management regulations, which emphasize maintaining the balance of the quality of growth, Hyundai E&C is striving to accomplish not only just external improvement but also sustainable management. Such a managerial strategy has already made the public revere Hyundai E&C as a superb sustainable enterprise, whose record of accomplishment speaks for itself. Hyundai E&C was accepted into DJSI World for 2 years in a row for the first time in global construction history and was selected as a World Sector Leader in the construction field in 2011. In a new paradigm of the global energy industry, incorporating an eco-friendly ‘low-carbon, green-growth’ strategy, Hyundai E&C has found its new growth engine through audacious investment in environmental developWe Build Tomorrow 3 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix As a global construction company that leads Korea into a construction power, Hyundai E&C promises to become a ‘beloved enterprise’ that contributes to mankind’s happiness, by strengthening the base for sustainable management and making ceaseless challenges and innovations. ment that pursues the co-existence of humanity and nature, new technologies that reduce dependence on existing energy resources, and development of new renewable energy sources. Hyundai E&C grows together with its all stakeholders and helps create a more developed tomorrow Hyundai E&C will do its best to play a role as a social citizen through Co-Growth with suppliers and enhance social contribution activities to help the disadvantaged of society, and thus will become an exemplary enterprise that contributes to the national economy and social development. Hyundai E&C will become a company that grows together with all its stakeholders to have a sustainably positive influence on our society. As a global powerhouse for Korea’s construction industry, Hyundai E&C promises to become a ‘beloved enterprise’ that contributes to the happiness and future of mankind, by strengthening the basis of sustainable management through endless innovations and challenges. We ask for your continued interest, and that you would witness how Hyundai E&C in harmony with our customers accomplishes our dream of building a better life for today and a bright future for tomorrow. President & CEO Hyundai Engineering & Construction Jung Soo-Hyun 4 Company Profile Hyundai E&C leads the domestic construction industry through its use of high technology and verified ability to complete project undertakings successfully; and furthermore, its dedication to be the “Global Top-Tier Construction Company.” As of July 2012, we have a total of 5,184 employees working at our head office, 5 domestic offices, 25 overseas offices, 231 domestic sites and 54 overseas sites. As a result of our stable business foundations in Korea, the Middle East and Asia, we are now expanding into Africa, CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States), and Latin America regions. 4 13 5 8 17 7 19 6 9 11 24 14 1 12 15 18 10 25 16 3 20 21 2 22 23 Overseas Offices Head office and Domestic offices 1. United States of America, 14. India, New Delhi Houston 15. Bangladesh, Dacca 2. Colombia, Bogotá 16. Vietnam, Hanoi 1 3. Venezuela, Caracas 17. China, Beijing 2 Seoul 4. United Kingdom, London 18. Hong Kong Incheon 5. Algeria, Algiers 19. Japan, Tokyo 6. Libya, Tripoli 20. Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur 3 7. Iraq, Baghdad Daejeon 21. Singapore 4 8. Iran, Teheran 22. Indonesia, Jakarta Daegu 9. Kuwait 23. Republic of South Africa, 6 5 10. Saudi Arabia, Al Khobar Johannesburg Gwangju Busan 11. Qatar, Doha 24. Bahrain, Muharraq 12. UAE, Abu Dhabi·Dubai 25. Oman, Muscat 13. Kazakhstan, Almaty 2011 Major Operational Achievements Total assets Capital Sales Operating Number of (100-million won) (100-million won) (100-million won) income employees (100-million won) (Persons) 106,837 43,178 101,046 5,167 5,184 We Build Tomorrow 5 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Introduction of Major Operations To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Hyundai E&C’s business portfolio encompasses Civil & Environment works,Building works, Plant works and Power & Energy works. Thorough preparatory investigation on work sites, active application of eco-friendly construction methods and post management, Hyundai E&C is taking on global leadership in each field while placing significance on eco-friendliness in business operations. Civil & Environment Division The Civil & Environment Division is responsible for the land development business, port construction, railroads, roads, bridge construction, water resources and environment-related projects. Honam Expressway 2-3 | On the Honam Expressway 2-3 sites, a project is in progress by our Civil & Environment Division. Soil contamination in the agricultural area is kept to a minimum by adoption of an ecofriendly soil improvement method of soft ground using small fiber mats consisting of palm fiber ingredients that utilize a horizontal drainage method. Building Works Division The Building Works Division is in charge of building structures within a broad range, including living, medical, office, and cultural facilities as well as the latest technological/public institution facilities. Singapore Asia Square Tower 1 | Asia Square Tower 1 increased eco-friendliness by the application of technology which converts used cooking oil into biodiesel for the first time in Singapore. This resulted in a savings of about 5,840,000 KWh of energy and 40,982m3 of water resources per year with the application of diverse eco-friendly measures. Plant Division The Plant Division is roughly categorized into the petrochemical plant, which includes petrochemical/marine equipment facilities, and other industrial equipment fields, which include steel/refinery and LNG terminal. Yeosu Oil Tank Terminal | Yeosu Oil Tank Terminal’s eco-friendliness was raised by the application of the soil seed spray, a commonly used ground protection method. The use of this method minimizes marine pollution sources that are caused by construction. A silt protector was installed, which is always installed when sewage treatment facilities and nonpoint pollution source control facilities are in operation. Power & Energy Division The Power & Energy is in charge of electricity transmission/transformation/industrial electricity facilities, which act as fundamentals for power/water plants and energy networks. Samcheok Green Power Boiler | The Samcheok Green Power Plant will be completed in December 2015. An advanced thermal power (ATP-1000) plant for export boilers, it is a economical plant which is expected to provide more than 120 billion won worth of reductions in fuel costs every year by adopting the world’s largest fluidized bed boiler as compared to the previous high thermal power plant which occupied this site. 6 Management Philosophy & Core Values Hyundai E&C secured a solid cooperative system when it organically connected with the newly incorporated Hyundai Motor Group in April 2011 by sharing management philosophies and visions. Soon, Hyundai E&C will take complete responsibilities and roles as a major company in the Group and will strive to lead the Group's future. “Creating a future together” Hyundai E&C is diligently working to achieve the vision “As a global leading provider of high-value engineering solutions, we will create the foundation for a better life through cross-business synergy and convergence with future technologies.” and by sharing and internalizing the management philosophies and core values of the Group. 3 core principles in management philosophy As a global leading provider of high-value Unlimited Sense of Responsbility engineering solutions Realization of Possibilities Respect for Mankind Through cross-business synergy Sharing and Internalizing Hyundai E&C the Philosophies & Vision & Missions Core Values within the Group 5 core values for Hyundai Convergence with future technologies Mobile Group Customer People Create the foundation for a better future Challenge Globality Collaboration Management Philosophy Hyundai Motor Group has established the management philosophy, “to realize the dream of human by creating a new future through creative thinking and endless challenges” based upon core concepts: 1) the infinite sense of responsibilities, 2) realization of possibilities, and 3) embodiment of humanity. With foundations on such a spirit, Hyundai Motor Group has accomplished a history of success and became the driving force of our future society. 5 Core Values Hyundai Motor Group’s core value is a firm standard that steers its actions and decision-makings to the most desirable direction. With the company’s longtime-bred DNA known as ‘Success’, every employee pursues 5 core values while pertaining to the corporate standard for actions and decision-makings in order to achieve the company’s future visions. Hyundai E&C will embrace challenge and cooperation by assimilating the core values to the most fundamental level, and lead the domestic construction industry towards global markets with unique corporate environment that respects both customers and human resources in rather creative than conventional attitude. We Build Tomorrow 7 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Stakeholders’ Participation To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Hyundai E&C considers the government, media, association, employees, customers, suppliers, community, stockholders and investors as key stakeholders, who play an important role in our economic activities, and endeavors to grow together with them. We place a high importance on communication with our stockholders through community meetings, investment presentations, customer surveys, etc. Government, Media, Association Endeavors to create a better future by providing transparent information to media institutions and associations, compliance with various regulations, and active participation in government policies. Provision of Communication Channels Cyber Audit Division, Community Meeting, general meeting of stockholders, Employees investment presentation, Survey, Customer Creates a culture of fair evaluation and compensation in support of Center, Suppliers Association, etc. development for professionals, assuring work safety, and endeavors to create pleasant working environments with many benefits. Provision of Value Stakeholders Customers Enhancement of customer trust through quality improvement and the creation of a pleasant living environment and strengthening communication with our customers. Management audit and provision of opinions Suppliers Endeavors for the establishment of fair and transparent trading Public hearing, press release, interview, junior board, HiPartner System, relationships with suppliers and realizes win-win values through Compliance Program (CP) , etc. information sharing and technology transfers. Community Active communication and sharing of hope with the local community by protecting the environment around the establishments and participating in sharing activities. Stockholders & Investors Maximizes the value for stockholders and investors with a stable governance structure and consistently strengthens corporate competition through the transparent operation of the board of directors. 8 Materiality Analysis Determining the content to be included in the report – Materiality Analysis Through the publication of the Sustainability Report for the last 2 years, Hyundai E&C is undertaking sustainable management in the economic, environmental and social aspects. To determine the key issues per area to improve the sustainable management of Hyundai E&C, the materiality of each issue was selected through a 3x3 matrix from the “materiality for stakeholders” and “materiality for Hyundai E&C” perspectives. The materiality of issues was determined in accordance with the materiality analysis framework, which has been used for Hyundai E&C since 2010. 18 key issues out of a total of 227 were selected, and the major reporting content was determined by the significance on these issues. These selected issues and reporting content were confirmed by a third party verification institution for compliance with the 3 principles of AA1000AS: responsiveness, completion, and diversity. Step1. Step2. Step3. Creating the Issue Pool Stakeholders' Survey Selecting Important Issues Understanding major issues Evaluating interest level and Inducing important reporting related to sustainable current status per issue issues through the management Collecting opinions from employees and materiality matrix proprietors as well as outside opinions Analysis of trends in the domestic Expectations from / foreign engineering industry employees Review of global standards 2012 Expectations from Business influence, Stakeholder proprietors policy directions, issue Engagement within the same company, Analysis of channel·dialogue Expectations from stakeholders' interest, per stakeholder Survey suppliers social regulation Inside interview Expectations from other stakeholders 2012 Stakeholder Engagement Survey Since 2009, Hyundai E&C has surveyed its stakeholders with regard to its sustainability management. And from June to July 2012, it carried out a survey targeting internal and extra stakeholders and identified their recognition on its sustainability management. Summary of the Survey Structure of survey questions for internal and external stakeholders Survey period from June 18 to July 6, 2012. Survey announcements on intranet & I. Level of promotion of sustainability Survey method Recognition corporate websites, email suvey management level on Number of Hyundai E&C’s II. Level of sustainability management 3,784 persons participants sustainability management III. Level by areas (economy, society, environment) Evaluation of sustainability IV. Evaluation of interest in each issue Major issues by areas management issues Environment Building of an eco-friendly supply chain Fairness and transparency in suppliers Direction of Society evaluation sustainability V. Measures for sustainable growth management Economy Strengthening of risk management We Build Tomorrow 9 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Materiality Matrix Issues to be monitored Main reporting issues Key reporting issues High 1 7 2 13 8 4 14 9 3 15 5 16 6 External evaluation 10 11 12 17 Low 18 Low Internal evaluation High Results of the 2012 materiality test The 2012 materiality test revealed high interest mainly in social issues, including talent nurturing, ethical management and customer privacy protection, and both internal and external stakeholders have very high interest in such issues. Eco-friendly R&D-related issues were identified as key issues as in the previous year’s test. Environmental issues were highly material to stakeholders but relatively low in regards to internal impact. Key reporting issues Main reporting issues Issues to be monitored 1 Program for systematic talent nurturing p.41 7 Employees’ health and safety p.45 13 Various social contribution programs p.52 Implementation of transparent ethical Independency and transparency of the 14 Protection of biodiversity p.33 2 p.43 8 p.58 management Board of Directors 15 Eco-friendly design p.26 3 Fairness and transparency in suppliers evaluation p.48 9 Training and support for suppliers p.47 16 Eco-friendly supply chain p.37 4 Strengthening of quality competence p.49 10 Strengthening of risk management p.63 17 Eco-friendly transportation p.30 5 Expansion of eco-friendly R&D p.22 11 Providing various welfare benefits p.42 18 Diversification of overseas businesses p.67 6 Stricter management of customer information p.51 12 Active collection of customer opinions p.50 2012 Carbon Management We Build Tomorrow 11 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Responses to Climate Change To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Hyundai E&C is actively participating in activities to control risk factors related to climate change by understanding opportunity elements and risk elements. A strategic implementation is being conducted to create corporate values regarding opportunity elements. Opportunities and Risks of Climate Change As the portion of energy used in the construction industry grows, corporate responses to climate change are becoming an important issue. According to the Korea Institute of Construction & Technology, the total amount of energy used both directly and indirectly in the construction site is 51,092 thousand TOE (Ton of Oil Equivalent), which is proportional to 12.9% of the energy used over the entire industries. As the energy needs in the construction field increase, measures for climate change are becoming an imminent issue. Unlike the response to climate change in other industries, activities for dynamic responses to climate change are limited due to some characteristics of the construction industry. Most emissions of greenhouse gases and energy are caused from construction equipment and emissions in building construction processes and are dependent on operational characteristics, and the dissipation and creation of the site is not consistent, making it difficult for standardization in the establishment and management of reduction objectives. Hyundai E&C has accomplished various activities and achievements to take a leadership role as an eco-friendly construction company by overcoming these characteristics of the construction industry. We will continue our construction activities to protect the environment and create sustainable development to satisfy our multiple stakeholders. Classification of opportunities and risks Materiality Test result Opportunity Business Impact Regulatory Issues Risk elements elements 1 3 2 1. International agreements ○ ○ 10 8 9 6 4 2. Emission reporting obligations ○ ○ 12 11 7 5 3. Carbon Taxes ○ 4. Cap and trade schemes ○ ○ 5. Product-efficiency regulations and ○ ○ standards Likelihood Opportunity Physical Issues Risk elements elements 6. Changes in the precipitation pattern ○ 7. Uncertainty of physical risks ○ Opportunity 8. Induced changes in natural resources ○ ○ Other issues Risk elements elements 9. Order of new projects for the 11. Reputation ○ ○ ○ prevention of disasters 12. Changing consumer ○ ○ 10. Expansion of business opportunities ○ behavior Climate Change Materiality Test Hyundai E&C has induced key issues regarding climate change through business reviews conducted by inside/ outside specialists and employees. Based on such development of key issues, a Materiality Test was conducted in consideration of influences on the business. According to the results, International agreements and cap and trade schemes, product efficiency regulations and standards are very important issues. Other than these, significance was high not only on the government’s activities on policy regulations such as carbon taxes but also on emissions disclosure obligations, namely, information sharing activities. Hyundai E&C will continue green management through the selection of and concentration on issues according to the Materiality Test. 12 International Agreements | With the emergence of carbon protection trade policies, Post Kyoto Protocol negotiations, it is expected that the formation of new agreements among regions and countries will thrive, and as a result, exposure to regulatory risks will occur. As a response to this movement, Hyundai E&C is engaging in the estimation and management of greenhouse gas emissions at all of its domestic operations utilizing the greenhouse gas inventory system created in June 2010, and established the greenhouse gas·energy performance management system through construction of KS I 7001·7002 (green management system) in November 2011. Also, through the introduction of ISO 50001 (energy management system) in March 2012, Hyundai E&C has established foundations for the development and application of greenhouse gas reduction options at all sites. Thanks to these efforts, Hyundai E&C was selected as a corporation of excellence for carbon efficiency by incorporating these modifications to the carbon efficiency index in 2011, and the company obtained the Carbon Trust Standard certificate in April 2012. Hyundai E&C is continuously planning reduction activities at all sites and is expected to decrease about 32,578tCO2-e in 2013, and about 150,466tCO2-e in 2018, for greenhouse gas emissions. Cap and Trade Schemes | In preparation for the Emissions Trading System, effective in 2015, Hyundai E&C is estimating the expected emissions amount for the future by basing it on the greenhouse gas emissions amount collected from all the sites as well as both midand long-term business strategies, and is conducting reduction activities through analysis of the greenhouse gas reduction objectives and reduction potentials established at each site. Also, using more daring methods, the feasibility of CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) project is being reviewed through the city complex development project, next energy generation project, CCS (Carbon Capture & Storage), and new renewable energy project, which is reflected in 5 green business areas among the midand long-term business strategies. According to these business strategies, Hyundai E&C plans to develop and commercialize the technology development roadmap step by step for renewable energy technologies, such as photovoltaic power generation, wind power generation and tidal power generation as well as element technology development for low carbon eco-friendly construction. Product Efficiency Regulations and Standards | Besides direct regulations evaluating energy efficiency such as the Building energy rating systems and Green building certification system, the Zero-Energy obligation will gradually be enforced for new construction through 2025. In preparation for this, Hyundai E&C has established a roadmap to commercialize Zero-Energy technology and is planning to apply it in stages through technology development and the analysis of economic value. Reputation | The Carbon Trust Standard Certificate is an international certificate given to both companies and institutes that have proven their performance of establishing a systematic energy system and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in their actual practices. Receiving the certificate for the very first time in Korean history as well as in the Korean construction site, Hyundai E&C has proven its greatness by being globally certified for its greenhouse gas emissions reduction. In 2011, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Korean Com│CTS Certificate mittee has chosen Hyundai E&C as an exemplary case for ideally countering the climate change. │Banpo Hillstate Constructing an eco-friendly │“Khoo Teck Puat Hospital” won the “BCA Construction Excellence Award,” the complex utilizing photovoltaic power generation, most prestigious award in the public buildings construction, organized by mini wind power generation, and a system Singapore’s Building and Construction Authority (BCA) We Build Tomorrow 13 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Carbon Management Strategy To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Carbon Management Strategy Hyundai E&C’s target is to decrease 30% of its greenhouse gas emissions compared to BAU ( Business As Usual) by 2018 and to obtain total energy Zero-House technology by 2020 to achieve the vision, “2020 Global Green One Pioneer.” The objectives for the reduction in greenhouse gas energy are achieved through eco-friendly technology development, and greenhouse gas emissions will be drastically decreased in construction and use by obtaining the energy Zero-House technology. Additionally, Hyundai E&C will be leading the global market as an eco-friendly construction company by increasing the corporate value through development of a new market and diversification of the business. Green Management Principle | As an anticipatory response to various domestic and global policies and regulations related to climate change, Hyundai E&C has applied the integrated management system at the corporate level combining ISO 14001 (Environment Management System), KS I 7001·7002 (Green Management System) and ISO 50001 (Energy Management System) from 2012. Performance index and objectives related to climate change have been established and carried out at all operations. Carbon Management Strategies by Hyundai E&C Vision 2020 Global Green One Pioneer Goal 2018 GHG (Green House Gas) emissions 2020 obtainment of total energy Zero-House technology 30% reduction compared to BAU ( 2025 LCCO2* Zero-House technology obtainment) Green System Establishment of the Undertaking System for Green Project Management Green R & BD** Induction of Green Management Realization of Green Sites/Operations Power for Green New Growth 1. Green management infrastructure 4. Systematic reduction of greenhouse gases 7. Developing green technologies 2. Enhancing green reputation 5. Expanding green outsourcing 8. Developing green businesses 3. Green Management Committee 6. Green project operation * LCCO2 (Life Cycle CO2) ** Research & Business Development Establishment of Green Management System | Hyundai E&C has established the green management system in order to systemically respond to and reflect the climate change issues upon internal management strategies. Hyundai E&C is maximizing green performance through the systemic management of the green index at the corporate level by operating the green integrated performance management system. Hyundai E&C will realize the green management roadmap in stages by disclosing the activities performance for our efficient operation of green management system internally and externally through the green management committee. Green Management Roadmap Settling & Leading Global Green Corporate Establishment of Green Management Foundations for Settlement of the Global Green Management Connection·Expansion with the Green Corporate Green Management, Technology Representative Establishment of the GHG emissions Reinforcement of Profitability Cooperation Committee inventory and Reduction Objectives in the Core technology & Global Management of quantitative/ Reinforcement of R&D competence Green Market qualitative objectives· in Green New Growth power achievements per operation Operation of the “Green head office Management Committee” Expansion to new markets for new Raising green training·personnel renewable energy·environment for employees 2010 2011 2013 2020 14 Carbon Emissions Management Greenhouse gas emissions · Energy use management In response to government regulatory plans such as the Target Management Scheme for GHG Emission and energy consumption and Emissions Trading System (ETS), Hyundai E&C established the greenhouse gas inventory system at all domestic sites in June 2010 and is managing emissions. In addition, training and management programs for employees on the sites have been in operation since 2010 in an effort to decrease greenhouse gas emissions. Hyundai E&C obtained the KS I 7001·7002 (green management system) certificate in November 2011 and the ISO 50001 (energy management system) certification in March 2012, which led it to establishing fundamental systems to manage achievements by counting energy usage performance on a monthly basis reviewing the energy use across a range of procedures, from the project orientation phase to the construction phase, and by establishing objectives. Currently, it is applied to 5 locations, including the head office buildings, research centers and representative sites per division in operation, and Hyundai E&C is planning to expand its │Energy Management System Certificate (ISO 50001) application globally. Estimation of greenhouse gas emissions | Understanding that constructing a reliable inventory for greenhouse gas is the first step to a climate change response, Hyundai E&C follows the international guidelines for assessment of emissions sources and estimation of the emissions amount, IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), GHG protocol (the most widely used greenhouse gas measuring system across the globe) by WRI·WBSCD, M&R guideline (that suggests a precise guideline regarding a business’ prospect in terms of scale and activeness) by EU-ETS, and ISO 14064. For the estimation range, it was classified into scope 1,2,3 Optional in reference to the WRI/WBSCD guideline, the international standard. The estimation was made in reference to the guideline for the national Target Management Scheme for GHG Emission and energy consumption. Current status of greenhouse gas emissions | Hyundai E&C emitted 438,650 tCO2-e of greenhouse gases in its 2011 sales activities, which is about a 1,101 tCO2-e reduction from 439,751 tCO2-e, the total emissions in 2010. These numbers are the result of reduction efforts in all processes of construction activities. Greenhouse gas emissions reduction plan | Hyundai E&C is working on the following reduction scenario for a 30% reduction by 2018 GHG emissions BAU1). Hyundai E&C will achieve higher objectives for emissions reduction to contribute to the national reduction objectives as an eco-friendly construction company, beyond a 5.6% reduction from 2012 until 2018 (government’s objective). Greenhouse gas emissions ( Unit : tCO2-e ) 2018 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1: oil, gas etc. Scope 2 : electricity, steam Reduction Plan ( Unit : tCO2-e ) Scope 3 : construction equipments at suppliers 501,533 451,645 438,650 473,466 439,751 395,028 393,236 358,704 363,698 351,087 343,113 30% reduction 34,040 39,047 45,328 46,979 from BAU 17,875 19,362 35,719 27,973 2008 2009 2010 2011 Internal Gov’t Estimated objective objective emissions Green Policies Engagement | Hyundai E&C consults in policy direction, participating in the establishment of detailed green guidelines through KOSCA and KICT as prepared by the Ministry of Land, Transport and Marine Affairs in order to apply the Target Management Scheme for GHG Emission and energy consumption, currently implemented by the government, into the construction industry by 2013. By participating in government presentations on policies, discussions and seminars related to climate change including the emissions trading system (ETS), Hyundai E&C is introducing the Group's strategies to climate change and providing opinions. We Build Tomorrow 15 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Carbon Management Performances To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Greenhouse gas emissions reduction activities Hyundai E&C endeavors to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by utilizing various campaigns and regulatory devices at its head office along with efforts to decrease emissions in the entire process of construction activities. Such performance in non-financial activities is converted into financial figures for management. Green Campaign activities | Hyundai E&C has continuously implemented various green campaign activities at head office including construction sites. When converting energy and greenhouse emissions that have been reduced by “setting computers in sleep mode and turning off the electricity during lunch time”, “turning off lights and air conditioners/heaters during lunch time,” and “turning off computers when leaving work”, it has generated up to 10.8 billion won-worth of energy. Green Campaign activities at construction sites | Since the emission sources and reduction activities for greenhouse gas emissions are different for the onsite construction and the indoor office, Hyundai E&C has conducted campaigns with the development of reduction items separately for the onsite construction. For main items, they concentrate mostly on regulating items related to gas for business vehicles on sites, the regular execution of car inspections on tire air-pressure, air cleaner and injector, reduction in quick acceleration · quick braking/idling ban, and reduction in the use of business vehicles through carpooling, etc. Use of public transportation and shuttle buses for commuting employees | Hyundai E&C conducted a campaign to encourage the use of public transportation and commuting buses in 2011. All employees at Hyundai E&C are obligated to comply with the related reduction activity in the groupware menu window prior to every Monday. INTERVIEW_ Darran Messem, Managing Director, Carbon Trust Certification Ltd The Carbon Trust Standard evaluates a company in terms of its green management strategy, energy reduction performance, and greenhouse gas reducing actions. Based on its stringent inspection process, Carbon Trust Standard estimates and manages the amount of the greenhouse gases emitted from the company’s business sectors and determines whether to approve for certification. It is a pleasure to acknowledge that Hyundai E&C passed such an inspection process, reduced the greenhouse gas emissions from its business sectors by 4.0%, and ultimately earned the Carbon Trust Standard Certificate. Hyundai E&C is without a doubt expected to lead the greenhouse gas reduction campaign for the coming era. To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Hyundai E&C’s green management is at the center of the company’s overall green management system, ‘greenizing’ the entire 8-phased construction processes, including technological development, design, material, transportation, construction, operation, removal, and an eco-friendly supply chain. With the help of the Materiality Evaluation, which keeps a vigilant watch on such processes, Hyundai E&C never pulls the plug on managing its eco-friendly activities. Green Eco-Friendly Eco-friendly Eco-friendy Management Technology Eco-friendly Eco-friendly TransportaEco-friendly Building Eco-friendly Eco-friendly System Development Design Materials tion Construction Operation Removal Supply Chain Stockholders and Investors H H M M L M M M L Customers H M H L L H H L M Gov. Media, Association H M M H M L M L L Employees H M M M H M L L M Community H L L L M M L H M Suppliers H L L M M M L L H * Materiality by stakeholders H : High·M : Medium·L : Low Principle & Policy | Hyundai E&C monitors the greenhouse gas and energy data of all operations and implements activities for energy reduction by establishing green and sustainable enterprise management strategies and policies for the vision, “2020 Global Green One Pioneer.” To demonstrate our leadership as a global eco-friendly corporation, we enforce intensive management of the entire process of construction activities through the classification of stockholders. In reference to eco-friendly technology development, Hyundai E&C endeavors to strengthen competitiveness in obtaining orders. For our customers, we practice eco-friendly design, construction and operation of eco-friendly buildings. In addition, we try to activate green purchasing by observing national regulations, including the use of eco-friendly materials, and contribute to energy and greenhouse gas reduction by operating eco-friendly vehicles at our operations. Hyundai E&C takes the lead in reducing negative environmental influences through our efforts in eco-friendly removal in the community. Our green management policies are gradually expanding to our suppliers. Key Performance Data Category Detail (Unit of Won: Divide by Sales) 2009 2010 2011 Amount of direct energy (TJ/ ton/100million won) 0.008 0.012 0.008 Energy Amount of indirect energy (TJ/ ton/100million won) 0.015 0.017 0.018 Greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2-e/ ton/100million won) 9.00 8.64 8.74 Water Amount of water (ton/ ton/100million won) 30.0 25.5 Wastes Waste discharge (ton/100million won) 28.8 9.0 11.5 Investment Investment for environmental protection (100million won) 256 330 306 * TJ (Terajoule) : an energy measurement unit 18 Green Management System The green management system of Hyundai E&C represents the very footing of its global position as the green management leader that, based on the conventional environmental management system, takes into account issues such as natural resources, energies, the latest climate change, as well as social responsibilities of and challenges toward new green industries by companies. Development of the Hyundai E&C’s Green Management System Management Level Integrated Green Green Management Energy Management Environment Management System System Management System System Establishment of the Green Obtaining the Green ManObtaining the energy Constructing the Management Committee agement System Certificate management system Integrated management Defining the green manageConstructing the Integrated Inducing the energy system combining ment slogan, missions Green Achievements achievements index ISO 14001, Management system KS I 7001 · 7002, Establishment of the green Establishment · implementaISO 50001, ISO 26000 management undertaking plan Constructing the IT tion of energy management Constructing the greenhouse integrated system objectives gas inventory CDP project participation Response to the Negotiated Development of the green Incorporating the Carbon Agreement (NA) on information system Efficiency Index greenhouse gas energy Expansion to the entire Obtaining Carbon Trust operations Certificate 2010 2011 2012 Direction in undertaking Green Management Hyundai E&C built company-wide green management policies and midto long-term strategies in establishing a central green management system. The system has led the company to employing and carefully commencing the green management throughout not just the head office but also worksites associated with all ongoing projects. Such efforts will reduce both environmental risks across business activities and resource and energy-dependent costs, and secure competitiveness in business operation. Operation of the Green Management Committee | Hyundai E&C has operated the Green Management Committee with our President as the chairperson since April 2010 to establish and discuss strategies for environmental issues at the corporate level. Committee meetings are held quarterly and play a role as the best decision making mechanism in becoming a global green leading corporation. Introduction of the energy management system | Hyundai E&C tries to reduce the amount of energy required in each construction phase and optimize its usage in the most efficient ways by fully taking advantage of the Certificate on Energy Management System, the first case of acquiring such a system. And, as a recognized eco-friendly construction company, Hyundai E&C endeavors to comply with the existing environmental policies. In doing so, the company is currently at its best in developing various types of eco-friendly technologies. Green performance management In order to emphasize its green management accomplishment records, Hyundai E&C has set a green management accomplishment index applicable to the head office and each worksite. Each worksite sets annual goals and plans to accomplish them, which are later assessed to confirm whether their results are ultimately We Build Tomorrow 19 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix satisfactory or not. Based on such performance records, feedbacks are generated in helping establishing goals and plans for a coming year, which improves efficiency in organizing the company’s accomplishment records. Integration of the Green Performance management system | Hyundai E&C is developing a green integrated performance management system for efficient management of the green management performance index. Qualitative data is automatically calculated in real-time by the integrated management of training, purchasing, wastes, social contributions and R&BD including the greenhouse gas inventory with our IT system. Greenhouse H-PMS Social Green E-HRD H-RPMS* gas inventory (Wastes · contribution system purchasing system system (Greenhouse Resources · (Social system (Training) (R&BD) Gas·Energy) Water) responsibility) (Purchasing) Green integrated achievements * H-RPMS: Hyundai Research Project Management System management system diagram Green Performance Index management | Applying to Hyundai E&C’s head office and all worksites, the green management accomplishment index indicates on issues that comprise not just environmental regulations but other relevant factors as well, such as green purchase, green purchases, natural resources · greenhouse gas, and social responsibilities. By commencing the green management accomplishment index, Hyundai E&C will promote and strengthen the green management throughout all business sectors. Current status of green management performance Hyundai E&C has been providing incentives to employees through performance management related to climate change in all divisions and at each site since 2012, and is planning to actively respond to climate change by continuously establishing and creating regulations on various incentives. Award for excellent site performance | Hyundai E&C will conduct evaluations on its green management performance index more than once every half a year at all sites to practice the green management in 2012. More than 1 annual evaluation for overseas operations will be conducted, and there will be an award for the site that places within the upper 5% per each division after evaluation. For the award, the certificate plate of the CEO and 5 million won in prize money will be given, and an opportunity for overseas training to benchmark the advanced global company will be also provided. Hyundai E&C plans to become an eco-friendly global construction company with an active attitude in response to climate change. Strengthen the Green Training | Hyundai E&C conducts training to increase awareness in green management levels through the enhancement of awareness in green management and obtainment of professional knowledge. Green training was conducted for 8,598 hours targeting 4.211 persons as trainees in 2011, which means every employee received 2 hours of training. Training was organized onsite and training for supplier firms was excluded. For the green training in 2012, participation training programs with a focus on discussions and practices will be included, and we are planning to improve the instructor’s level of expertise by developing customized training materials per level. Also, the effect of training will be maximized through enforcement of the specialty of the content and further improved by utilization of onsite cases and information. 20 Flow of Material Goods Eco-friendly Technology Development Eco-friendly Design Eco-friendly Materials Eco-friendly Transportation Reorganization of the technology Eco-friendly design development Reinforcing the green Enforcement of eco-friendly development system Development of environment purchasing process transportation STRATEGY Expansion of personnel restoration design technology Expansion of the green Exchange & operate and the budget purchasing rate eco-friendly cars Expansion of joint R&D with the Develop & adopt eco-friendly Enforcement of the driving guideline companies in the Group materials Connection and expansion with the Green Management Committee and Improvement and Stabilization of Reinforcing training for drivers and ACTIVITIES the Technology Cooperation Committee the Green Purchasing Process employees at cooperators & ACHIEVEExpansion to New Regeneration Energy and New Environment Market Undertaking expansion of the MENTS Diversification and Expansion of Participations in National Projects portion of Green purchasing 2011 Expansion to R&D investments in environment and energy Building the enterprise technology management system Expansion of the green Reinforcing operation standards Expansion of Synergistic Co-research within the Group purchasing rate for eco-friendly vehicles PLANS Priority Research on New Growth Business Areas Reinforcing management standards Raising awareness by FOR 2012 (nuclear energy, undersea tunnel, marine construction etc.) for green purchasing implementing the eco-friendly Expansion of R&D Investment areas vehicles transportation campaign INPUT Concrete (ton) 299,726 Water (ton) 1,295,000 Oil (TJ) 337.69 Electricity (TJ) 903.43 Gas (TJ) 41.64 OUTPUT Wastes (ton) 580,077 Direct, indirect greenhouse gases (tCO2) 74,952 Recycling volume (ton) 35,023 Other indirect greenhouse gases (tCO2) 363,698 Waste water (ton) 2,556,000 We Build Tomorrow 21 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Eco-friendly Construction Eco-friendly Building Operation Eco-friendly Removal Eco-friendly Supply Chain Construction sites environment and Operating energy-zero buildings Operating a comprehensive -Expanding green technology trades with energy management Actualizing eco-friendly green homes environmental wastes management suppliers Environmental conservation activities system Strengthening green management Enforcement of Waste management Strengthening wastes management training for suppliers guidelines policies Anticipative response to Gov’t Developing a village/city-comprehensive Demolishing the stone surface of building Commencing green management Negotiated Agreement (NA) on energy management system structures, establishing demolition policies training for suppliers greenhouse gas, energy Strengthening sustainability -Systemic reduction in greenhouse gases evaluations of suppliers Reconstruction of the national greenhouse Expanding green item building Demolishing the stone surface of building Expanding green management training gas Inventory and responses to policies applications structures, establishing demolition policies and funding support for suppliers Monitoring on the entire process of energy use and energy reduction Investment for Environmental Protection Energy Usage Performance ( Unit : TJ ) ( Unit : 100 million won ) 2009 256 2009 1,169.60 2010 330 2010 1,473.59 2011 306 2011 1,296.91 *2010 Other expenses included CO2 Emissions Performance ( Unit : tCO2-e ) Eco-Friendly Buildings Certification Certificate Name of building Rate 2009 451,645 Khoo Tech Puat Hospital Platinum One Shenton way Gold 2010 439,751 Overseas Union House Gold Green Mark Pasir Ris Condominium Gold Plus 2011 438,650 Asia Square Tower 1 Pasir Ris Condominium Parcel 2 Platinum Gold Plus Botannia Condominium Gold LEED Asia Square Tower 1 Platinum 22 Eco-Friendly Technology Development We have established an R&D division created from the existing R&D center with a vision of ‘obtaining technology for leaping forward to becoming an engineering-based construction company initiated in April of 2011’. With the development of this new center, we hope to obtain technology based on eco-friendly business practices to facilitate future growth and maximize competitive improvement and profitability for the existing business. Hyundai E&C plans to become a leading eco-friendly technology-based, and exemplary industrial leader by obtaining these objectives. Employee and budget expansions Hyundai E&C employs researchers in its quest for the development of eco-friendly technology and the expending of investment for its research facility. Our R&D budget increased by about 85% in 2011. We employed 77 people in the R&D center in 2009, and increased that number by about 24% to employ 93 people in 2011. We plan to expand our employment of experts to 120 people in 2012. Expansion of investments for the Research facility | Hyundai E&C continuously executes investments for its new research facility and has continued to do so since 2010. In an effort to continuously improve our test facility distribution and field support capability for our previous technology development, we invested by about 78% in 2011. We plan to invest in 2012 for the research facility. With the expansion of our research facility, Hyundai E&C plans to lead the industry in the development of cutting-edge eco-friendly technological advancements. Researchers at the R&D Division ( Unit : Persons ) Expansion of government support | Hyundai E&C is widely known for its eco-friendly technology 120 development and its ability to continuously execute national projects. We recently started a project of technology 93 development to explore an active control type of tidal power generation in 2011 and are currently executing 16 77 national projects in 2012. Subsidies for R&D supported by the government equaled approximately 1.8 billion won in 2009, approximately 3.4 billion won in 2010, and approximately 5.4 billion won in 2011. We plan to continue to expand our government support in an effort to provide eco-friendly technology development. 2010 2011 2012 * 2012 is expected value CASE STUDY_ Summary of project Recovery Activity Report for Soil Pollution Name of construction site : [Other working field for roadbed facility Gyeongbu Express Train No. 6-3 section of works] Daejeon station block Area : 56,000 m2 Purifying amount of polluted soil : 24,621 m3 Working period : 2010. 07. 29. ~ 2010. 12. 20. (with reference to the purifying process) Hyundai E&C found unexpectedly high density of oil pollution in a working field for the newly established roadbed for the Gyeongbu Express Train. For preventing secondary pollution to neighboring sites, we acknowledged the need to remove the original polluting source. We quickly processed it while minimizing the delay of work by utilizing the sites according to the purification of each section. During this process, Hyundai E&C applied its original eco-friendly, economical purifying technology for polluted soils, i.e. all clearing of water-reuse and a no-wasted water-emission system. Moreover, we minimized working costs by reusing cleared soil in the field. Technology for recovering soil pollution | Hyundai E&C has eco-friendly technology for the minimization of and directly solving environmental problems, which can happen in the construction site. The technology for clearing polluted soil, which Hyundai E&C uses is one that is the first environmental new technology in Korea developed by an engineering and construction company through its own R&D and field application. This technology does not use an emissions system to remove pollutants from water used for clearing polluted soil again to reuse all of the water, claiming to be an economically excellent eco-friendly technology. Hyundai E&C plans to continuously improve its technology development for eco-friendly methods. We Build Tomorrow 23 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Eco-friendly technology development Hyundai E&C has contributed to the reduction of technology development costs as well as an increase of environmental property through co-R&D expansion that is related to an eco-friendly technology and eco-friendly technology and development with companies in the Group. Slag reutilizing expansion technology | Hyundai E&C has partnered with Hyundai Steel Ltd. to develop construction materials utilizing ironing slags due to the increased need for high value materials for expanding the use of slag. This co-research has been invested in with research costs of about 0.32 billion won, which will solve the problems for environmental issues that arose due to the saturation of open-air yard for slags of Hyundai Steel. The result will afford the production of slags of 5 million tons upon completion of construction of the No. 3 furnace. Through this research, Hyundai E&C will develop a low-cost, non-cement-combining agent and high anti-flame · high anti-heat slag concrete by using steel slag to increase energy efficiency. Current Projects Promoted by Co-research Companies in the Group R&D project Developing an intelligent road system Hyundai Motor Applying a hydrogen-fuel cell for cars to architecture Developing a process for combining complex natural gas by using steel gases Developing a technology for reusing steel wasted water Hyundai Steel Research for expanding the utilization of furnace slag Developing a new steel for the construction site and estimating produced steels Hyundai Amco Co-research for concrete related to slag utilization for skyscrapers Developing the Building Energy Management System (BEMS) Hyundai Autoever systems Co-participating in the national project for active tidal power generation Expansion of the reuses of steel wasted water | Hyundai E&C will partner with Hyundai Steel Ltd. to execute co-research to develop the water reuse markets of membrane technology and reduce water costs for industrial water usage. Hyundai E&C will be responsible for managing, designing and operating the project in general, while Hyundai Steel Ltd. will be responsible for collaterally operating the RO pilot and analysis of water quality. Hyundai E&C will build a water reuse facility O&M (Operation and management) technology utilizing the RO (Reverse Osmosis) system, UF (Ultra Filtration) · RO membrane design and EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) ability. Developing a Pressurizing Support Tunneling Method (PSTM) | There are many instances where │Detailed drawing of the pressurizing support newly made roads or rails must pass below existing roads or rails. Hyundai E&C has developed a new pressuritunnel method zing support tunneling method through its research of the past 4 years, and this new method can overcome the problems of existing technology, which causes excess displacement and working delays that occur in the existing tunnel establishing method. (i.e. a method of pressurizing-embodying Φ800~2,000mm large sized steel tubes to supplement them with steel concrete and excavate tunnels) This method increases work safety, shortens the working period with slim structures, drastically reduces the use of steel in the construction of new tunnels, and has the effect of reducing more than 35% of the working period and 76% of steel usage when compared to the existing method. Hence, the method is one that is eco-friendly and capable of drastically reducing greenhouse gases which contributes to competitiveness in receiving orders in domestic and international markets, in addition │Construction site using the pressurizing support to reducing costs. tunnel method 24 Major R&D Achievements of 2011 Technology Summary Eco-friendly Aspects Concrete which reduces CO2 emissions and cement water heat by CO2 Reducing and substituting given portions of cement of concrete materials with Reducing the CO2 emitted by cement production Low-heat Concrete a furnace slag or industrial by-products Building Energy Technology which analyzes·predicts amount of energy consumption Energy reduction through the prediction of CO2 Consuming Amount (air conditioning, lighting, ventilating, and water boiling) in the building Green Cities emissions in buildings Analyzing Technology by utilizing simulation programs Reducing house energy consumption-Reducing 77% for Wasted heat withdrawing ventilation system, which can cool with external air and ventilation, 22% for cooling, 16% for heating HERV (Hyundai mount optimum ventilation control technology, which is a technology automatically Reducing greenhouse gases yearly-Reducing 0.47 tons Energy Recovery operated by a composite sensor and ventilation control program to keep indoor of greenhouse gases Ventilation) System environments comfortable and reduce energy (Green technology authentication: Managing indoor environment-Managing required level for Ministry of Land, Transport, and Marine affairs No. GT-11-166) indoor CO2 and TVOC (adjustable) Reducing house energy consumption-Reducing 15% for heating TEEM (Total Energy (Excluding reduction of HERV) Integrated management system for mounting energy reducing-automatic & Environment Reducing greenhouse gases yearly-Reducing 0.24kg control and indoor environmental management technology for energy Management) System of greenhouse gases facility/apparatus for households Managing indoor environment-Monitoring and managing for households indoor air quality·indoor heat environment Hybrid earth-heat Technology for establishing an optimal cooling and heating system Minimizing carbon emissions through the reduction of cooling and heating associated with drying floor heating panel, earth heat and solar heat cooling and heating energy system technology Technology for solving visibility problems due to expansion of the Visibility using renewable energy solar installation area and existing solar visual Reducing CO2 emissions according to the production of clean BIPV system shield and for reduced cooling loads due to utilization as lighting electric energy and reduction of cooling load and shield for infrared in window Green Energy Increasing the production of bio gases by more than 15% Organic waste bio Technology for purifying organic wastes and at the same time producing Renewable energy production and minimizing bad odors gas system bio gases, hence improving process efficiency by combining membranes and sludge Organic sludge Technology for treating sludge, which is economical and innovative because it makes Reducing weight of organic sludge Producing fuel heat-water dissolving organic dehydrated sludge, having about 80% of water content into a liquid state (bio gas) using wasted sludge · anaerobic digest through the high temperature, high pressure method of a thermal hydrolysis reaction to separate it into solid and liquid and reduce its weight, to produce bio gas through Reducing more than 50% of energy against integrating process a high efficient and anaerobic fire extinction reaction for remaining liquid products existing sludge treatment method(dry) technology Developing marine wind power support A sophisticated alternative energy technology for utilizing natural Reducing dramatically fossil fuels such as coal and oil structures and based source wind, spaces, marine through utilizing wind energy technology Eco-freindly and Environmental construction technology for minimizing environmental high efficient dredge effects of constructing section and construction efficiency analyzing and Minimizing floating matters on construction in water technology optimizing technology using the ubiquitous monitoring system Green Efficiency High performance Press-sending technology, making it possible to supply concrete at once concrete mixing and to mixing design and driven places for high performance concrete applied Minimizing environmental pollution by minimizing pumping technology for in skyscrapers, and technology for predicting actual concrete pressconcrete material loss high-rise building sending capabilities with the estimation of simple press-sending capability Increasing the safety of aboveground Technology that, with regard to the establishment of underground traffic facility, which Pressurizing Support (making it possible to recover displacement) penetrates a lower part of the existing structure, avoided insertion of large-sized Tunneling Method Shortening the working period (shortening by 35%) steel tube (Φ800~2,000mm) but instead used a slim pressing support system to obtain (PSTM) Reducing steel usage (Reducing 76%) → Reducing CO2 emissions safety and penetrate quickly and economically without affecting aboveground. Improving constructing property (increasing worker’s safety) We Build Tomorrow 25 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Developing Economics for technology Type method Current State Case Cost reduction (material cost) CommerPlan Develop Test UAE Nuclear power Shortening the construction period Design optimization Self development cialized generation (hydrated heat reduction) Minimizing the building's CommerCooperating maintenance cost Product innovation Plan Develop Test cialized development (energy consumption) Reducing 310,000 won of energy costs annually compared to the continuous CommerCooperating operation of the existing system Product innovation Plan Develop Test cialized Sejong Hillstate site development (based on an average household with 30 pyeong area) Reducing 130,000 won of energy costs annually compared to the existing Cooperating CommerPlanning to be implemented Product innovation Plan Develop Test cialized heating system (based on an average development at Hillstate site household with 30 pyeong) Reducing 20~30% of the cooling CommerProcess optimization Self development Plan Develop Test cialized and heating energy of buildings Improving renewable energy/ construction efficiency Self and cooperative CommerProcess optimization Plan Develop Test cialized KCC laboratory complex Utilizing existing window systems development Reducing initial investment cost Considering applicability Increasing bio gas emissions CommerDesign improvement for the renewable energy against existing technology and Self development Plan Develop Test cialized Method innovation composite complex building reducing process by-products project at city of Jeju Reducing O&M costs through more than 50% energy reduction against New method Cooperating CommerPlan Develop Test cialized the existing sludge treatment development development method (dry) Reducing marine wind power-based Cooperating CommerProduct innovation Plan Develop Test cialized construction costs development Dongyang steel and chemical’s High concentration and optimal wasted lime treatment site transference CommerTaean’s business-city Process optimization Self development Plan Develop Test cialized Adjusting the percentage of water construction site content in construction Nakdong river revitalization project, No. 22 section Reducing construction costs by Inchon Tower CommerPusan international preventing problem occurrence Design improvement Cooperating Plan Develop Test cialized finance center through estimation and monitoring Method innovation development Federation of Korean of sending capability Industries building Reducing non-excavation tunnel Gwanggyo land development method costs (steel usage) New method Commer2 section Ramp –B (section Self development Plan Develop Test cialized Shortening the constructing period development of crossing with Yeongdong (method development) highway) 26 Eco-Friendly Design Hyundai E&C strives to adjust its business endeavors to introducing eco-friendly design within the construction industry. We are designing our projects taking account of energy reduction, used-water reduction, ecological issues and comfortable housing environments. Energy reduction design Hyundai E&C is trying to reduce energy use during construction by applying design techniques to maximize the reduction of the emission of greenhouse gases and reduce the impact of environment-polluting materials. Moreover, we are trying to reduce the use of the environment-polluting materials emitted during construction. Visibility through the BIPV (Building Integrated Photovoltaic) system | Hyundai E&C designed the BIPV system to maximize the visibility of reducing CO2 emissions by utilizing clean electric energy production and cooling load reduction. This is one solution for resolving visibility problems that are due to the solar light visual shield by utilizing specialized lighting and reducing cooling loads that result from the shield of infrared properties in windows. Such technology has the effect of reducing about 12% of electric energy in its application to a 45 Acreage apartment. Moreover, Hyundai E&C has resulted in the filing of 3 patents for wiring technology for dual sliding windows for common housing. HERV (Hyundai Energy Recovery Ventilation) system | Hyundai E&C uses a wasted heat withdrawing ventilation system which makes it possible to cool with exterior air, with optimal ventilation control technology mounted on the Sejong Hillstate site. This technology automatically operates through a composite sensor and ventilation control program to maintain a comfortable internal environment and reduce energy. Hyundai E&C thereby reduced 77% for ventilation, 22% for cooling, 16% for heating with regard to the reduction of housing Effect of energy energy. Moreover, we have accomplished an annual reduction of 0.47 tCO2. Hyundai E&C continues to provide reduction design customers with reductions in energy usage and comfort in housing environments. Annual greenhouse gas reduction by using the HERV system Energy managing system | Hyundai E&C is expanding the application of its energy management system, 0.47 HEMS and MEMS, starting at the Incheon Geomdan Hillstate site. This system allows customers to monitor used tCO₂ amounts and costs of water, gas and electricity in real-time via wall pads and smart phones. Use of this system is expected to contribute to reducing all kinds of energy and water. Considerations for energy reducing design Efficiency Renewable Insulating method, high insulating materials, high Solar light, solar heat, tidal power performance window, wasted heat withdrawal generation, marine wind power, ventilation and high efficient construction technology earth heat, bio gas, hydrogen Water reduction design Hyundai E&C designs water reducing equipment that not only reduces water consumption but increases energy efficiency after its construction is complete. For Baekryeon Mountain First Hillstate (Eungam No. 7 section), we made it our goal to reduce annual water usage to 14,378 tons and are planning the introduction of both a sink water-saving valve (11,060ton/year) and an excellent processing system (3,318ton/year). Considerations for water reducing design Water saving Reuse Water saving toilet bowl, water supplying High pressure filter apparatus, ammonia meter, treated water supply, excellent usage stripping, high density composite liquid system, reducing valve fertilizer withdrawal We Build Tomorrow 27 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Comfortable housing environment design Hyundai E&C is applying a ventilation design for the improvement of internal air quality, geography and wind direction as well as design for minimizing noise. Verification for the final material’s eco-friendly property | We are applying a design for verifying the final material’s eco-friendly properties to increase customer satisfaction by improving internal air quality and making inside housing environments comfortable. This technology for verifying whether or not final materials meet internal management standards through quantitative, qualitative analysis for pollutants that are emitted from the final materials applies to new construction. Major cases that have applied these technologies include the southern Seoul Hillstate site and Banpo, Incheon Yeongjong Hillstate sites. Technology for reducing floor shock noise | To resolve the inconvenience among customers due to noise between floors, we are developing technology that will reduce floor shock sound. This technology will reduce all kinds of floor shock sounds that include walking in the upper floors in common housing developments through modification of floor structure technology. At present, this technology is in the developmental stage. Considerations for comfortable housing environment design Internal air quality Vent Eco-friendly material, composite sensor and ventilation Nature-friendly complex arrangement, consideration upon control program geography, wind enduring structure estimation Insulation Noise Composite insulation, external insulation system, Acknowledge floor structure development, noise control, tunnel lining insulation window, noise shield capability, predicting technology Ecological environment design Hyundai E&C is attempting to predict the environmental effects occurring in geography or water quality, animal and plants during construction through analyses and then trying to minimize them during the design stage of projects. Eco-friendly construction and soil dredging processing technology | Hyundai E&C is developing dredging technology to minimize the environmental effects of pollution and water emissions during construction. Moreover, we are analyzing and optimizing construction efficiency by utilizing a ubiquitous monitoring system. Thereby, we expect to increase the construction efficiency of domestic construction to a level from 10~15% to 30~40%. Consequently, Hyundai E&C is exerting its leadership role in the eco-friendly design field as a leading company in the construction industry. Considerations for ecological respect design Geography Water quality Animal/Plant Water blocking wall installation, Water blocking wall installation, Damaged wood reuse, exit road, water purification, organic wasted water purification, organic wasted ecological placements, artificial water purification water purification plant island 28 Eco-Friendly Materials Hyundai E&C has estimated the value of environmental properties for purchased materials and selection since 1997. We thoroughly manage the materials regarding transporting, storing and using them, and we encourage suppliers to develop eco-friendly materials. Moreover, with regard to purchasing and collecting eco-friendly materials, we prohibit the use of harmful materials and frequently update our eco-friendly materials list to minimize environmental effects based on collected objective data. Hyundai E&C continuously develops and uses ecofriendly materials to provide leadership that embodies the characteristics of an eco-friendly society. Green Purchasing Process Improvement Hyundai E&C is improving green purchasing processes and managing purchasing results in order to encourage eco-friendly material purchasing and collecting and to create a green management culture. Green Purchasing Process | Products to be targeted for green purchases are managed, being classified into 8 codes (HEGS 1~8) according to their type, since their codes must be entered when we request or order materials. Each site classifies these data codes. By executing this type of monitoring, Hyundai E&C is distributing green management with regard to the purchase and collection of eco-friendly material as well as the same for its suppliers. Estimating Material’s Eco-Friendly Property | Hyundai E&C has 3 standards: 1) harmfulness (toxicity, nonbiodegradability, ecological threats ; 2) law violation (harmful chemical material managing acts, waste managing acts, fire services acts); and 3) usage (average use from all sites). We are establishing eco-friendly networks by performing educational training about reduction of environmental harmfulness for suppliers whose materials have been estimated to encompass high environmental harmfulness as well as urging to develop substitute materials for the harmful materials. Green Purchasing Process Setting the standard for Entering HEGS Monitoring Hyundai E&C’s CODE on requesting eco-friendly eco-friendly · ordering materials purchasing results Guiding Green Product Use products (Minimizing environmental load according to material uses) HEGS : Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard Type Content Type Content HEGS-1 Environmental mark-certified goods HEGS-5 Foreign environment mark-certified goods HEGS-2 GR(Good Recycled) mark-certified goods HEGS-6 Waste-reduced goods HEGS-3 1-rated energy efficiency goods HEGS-7 Hazard material-reduced goods HEGS-4 Energy savings mark-certified goods HEGS-8 Recycled goods We Build Tomorrow 29 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Expanding the Green Purchasing Rate | In 2011, Hyundai E&C purchased raw materials in the amount of 5,242 billion won, with 24.6 billion won being allocated to green purchasing. This corresponds to 0.5% of the total of the purchasing amount being a green purchase, and a value expansion of 73% compared to the total of green purchasing in 2010. Improving Usages of Raw Materials by the Unit of Won | Hyundai E&C used major raw materials in the amount of 14,042,294 tons in 2011, resulting in selling the amount of 5,024.0 billion won. The ratio of the unit of won to usages of the major raw materials based on the selling amount is 267, which increased by 36.9% compared to 195 of the reference ratio of unit of won in 2010. Managing the major raw material usage in accordance with the selling amount is Hyundai E&C’s green management effort for spreading green purchases. Changing Transition of ( Unit : 0.1 billion won ) Transition of the Unit of Won for Raw Green Purchasing Amount Material Usage 260 267 246 195 142 144 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Improving the Ratio of Reused Concrete | In 2011, Hyundai E&C’s 63 construction sites’ ratio of using reused concrete occupied 14.5%. Among aggregates of about 9.8 billion won in all of the 10 construction sites, about 0.64 billion won was used for purchasing recycling aggregates, which means that 14.5% of the total quantity was used with the recycling aggregates when calculating and quantifying that with an average unit. Hyundai E&C’s ratio of using reused concrete will continue to increase and be managed for the future. Our goal is to reuse concrete in all sites. │Commercializing low-heating concrete, which shortens the construction period by reducing Developing Eco-Friendly Concrete | Hyundai E&C’s goal is to develop an eco-friendly concrete material. material costs and heat of hydration We are on track for developing and commercially using a CO2 reducing and low-heat concrete which can be substituted for a given portion of cement in concrete materials with a furnace slag, an industrial byproduct to reduce CO2 emissions and hydration of cement heat, hence reducing the cost for material and hydration heat to make it possible to shorten work times. Moreover, we are now testing a 200Mpa class of high-intensity, concrete-mixing design technology, hence reducing concrete usage to maximally reduce energy usage and environmental effect. 30 Eco-Friendly Transportation Hyundai E&C is practicing eco-friendly transportation to make it possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Through the eco-friendly transportation campaign among employees and the distribution of the eco-friendly transportation guideline for vehicles to be used in working sites, we are promoting Hyundai E&C’s eco-friendly transportation plans. Eco-friendly transportation policy Hyundai E&C is improving its eco-friendly transportation by actively corresponding to climate change. In 2010, the company spent 0.70tCO2-e/0.1billion won on transportation and in 2011, with the expansion of its ecofriendly transportation policy, we reduced the amount to 0.56tCO2-e/0.1billion won. Likewise, the eco-friendly transportation will continue to expand in order to reduce the emitted greenhouse gas amount. Eco-friendly transportation activity Hyundai E&C’s eco-friendly transportation activity is largely classified into 2 activities; the execution of ecofriendly transportation in policy and practice of eco-friendly transportation through the employee green campaign. Hyundai E&C drastically reduced greenhouse gas emissions in 2011 because our company changed its work vehicles from gasoline vehicles to hybrid vehicles, which have high energy efficiency ratings, resulting in a drastic reduction of gas usage. Moreover, we have continued executing various activities for reducing the use of vehicle for work through the practice of our employee green campaign, regular vehicle check, prohibiting abrupt accelerating · stopping · ticking-over and carpooling, hence being capable of reducing the greenhouse emissions. Hyundai E&C will expand its campaign and activity step by step to obtain 100% compliance to our eco-friendly transportation policies. Intensifying vehicles' operating reference | Hyundai E&C established a policy for operating vehicles for work and is operating the policy by enforcing them in our company’s own vehicles, leased vehicles, suppliers' vehicles and vehicle drivers. This policy embraces the “eco-drive guideline” for environmental protection and gas mileage reduction as well as its contents for vehicle managers and aggressively recommends adherence to the policy to reduce greenhouse gases. Hyundai E&C will intensify referential standards for vehicle operation and expand the eco-driving campaign. Executing an eco-friendly transportation campaign | Hyundai E&C advocates eco-friendly transportation and is spreading its eco-friendly culture through various green campaigns. Hyundai E&C will diversify and continue its green campaign which will allow all employees to participate in order to steadfastly execute the green management. Hyundai E&C Driving Guideline Class Practicing Item Economical driving guideline Class Practicing Item Economical driving guideline Traffic Making traffic information Stopping engine upon parking for more than Finding all optimum paths Driving Minimizing a Info a way of life 5 seconds, Transiting to Neutral mode (N) Habits ticking-over while waiting for the signals Minimizing engine 10 seconds is appropriate for engine pre-heating, pre-heating not exceeding a maximum of 30 seconds Emptying car trunk of unnecessary luggage, Luggage diet Driving with your vehicle’s fuel half filled Smoothly starting Starting with 20km (1500rpm) in 5 seconds your vehicle after starting vehicles Tire air-pressure Regularly checking your tires’ check air pressure every month Using an engine brake on downhill, Driving Utilizing inertia driving Inertia driving by accelerating ahead upon entering uphill, Car Being reluctant Reluctant use of air-conditioner, When Habits Stopping with inertia by anticipating crossroad signs manageto use the air using air-conditioner, operating it from high ment conditioner mode to low mode Keeping a constant Not abruptly accelerating/decelerating but constantly driving, driving speed Maintain a safe distance from the car ahead Managing Checking car fluids every month and supcar fluids and plying shortage according to each vehicle’s Observing economical Observing 60~80km/hour on general roads, maintenance of specifications, Checking/repairing car parts speeds Observing 90~1000km/hour on highways car systems and systems on a regular basis We Build Tomorrow 31 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Eco-Friendly Construction To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Hyundai E&C is working on projects aimed at minimizing the environmental effect throughout all new construction projects. We are investigating construction processes and paying attention to how construction sites are effectively using available energy and materials and how such process are affecting the working sites and the local environment, as well as exploring ways to decrease any adverse environmental effects we discover. Resource management Hyundai E&C is reducing resource use by more effectively using and systematically managing resources used during construction. Managing energy in construction sites | Hyundai E&C is using its monthly H-PMS report to collect and manage the use of energy in working sites during construction projects. Moreover, we are initiating a companywide green campaign to develop ways to further reduce any negative environmental impact that construction has on sites. We obtained the energy management system international standard ISO 50001 Authentication for the first time among construction companies in the world companies by working out this initiative. Major resource management plan Material Water Energy BIM* (Building Rain storing facility Writing energy reduction plan Information Modeling) Underground water de-watering facility Checking · approving energy performance indicator Spring cooler Energy high efficiency facility and infrastructure * BMI (Building Information Modeling) : An interfacing system that stores all the architecture-related information into its database, it generates the exact quantity and production cost of materials needed for construction so as to save the unnecessary use of materials. The construction site's environment management Hyundai E&C regards site workers and local residents as most important. We are thoroughly managing the environment at the construction sites to minimize environmental effects on them. Performing an estimation of the environmental effect | Hyundai E&C is compulsorily performing an estimation of the environmental effect for the construction and development industries such as city development and road construction before their onset. For a project not being subject to compulsory estimation according to the Acts, we estimate upon environmental aspects at the initial phase of the project based on contents specified in the ‘safety/health and environment management guideline’. In August of 2011, we estimated the environmental effects for each working step deployed in the construction site of Gangseo Hillstate to the effect of deriving noise, vibrating and dusts as main items to manage, hence managing primarily the corresponding items. Effects on the Effects on the environment estimation environment estimation process Natural Environment Living Environment Social/Economical Environment Climate, Geography/Topology, Land Use, Air Quality, Water Quality/ Population/Residential Conditions, Animals/Plants Soil, Wastes, Noise/Vibration, Traffic, Cultural Heritages Leisure/Natural View Suggesting means to reduce Establishing agenda for post Selecting and evaluating means effects on the environment environmental effect assessment Overall Assessment and Selecting the Optimal Choice 32 External organization environment audits | Hyundai E&C performs external independent audits for other organizations and internal experts’ audits for all construction sites, both domestically and overseas. Our external independent audits is performed using a third-party special authenticating organization. In 2011, we performed external audits for 12 head office departments and 15 construction sites. In addition, we performed internal auditss, 532 times for 19 head office departments and 198 construction sites. Environment managing cost ( Unit : % ) Environment managing cost ( Unit : 0.1 billion won ) distribution in 2011 330 Noise and Vibration 306 Etc. 6.4% 9.5% Water 13.1% 256 Air Waste 15% 56% 2009 2010 2011 Observations | Hyundai E&C received 6 improvement orders and 16 fines in 2011 in violation of the environmental Acts and remedied all violations. Managing construction sites | Hyundai E&C manages air quality, water quality, soils, noise and vibration and leads environmental protection activities. Major resource management plan Air Water Establishing standards for the emissions of air polluting Providing facilities for treating contaminated · wasted water. materials and installing restraining facilities Managing the marine environment Installing anti-dust walls and automatic spraying apparatus Installing temporary draining paths and sand-precipitating Tele-monitoring system sections, Thoroughly managing oil facilities. Publishing air quality states through electric bulletin boards at the sites Soil Noise/Vibration Prohibiting certain types of work for maintaining facilities Installing local anti-sound · anti-dust facilities, Using and exchanging oils in sites low-noise equipment Developing technology for clearing contaminated soils Operating at low speeds in construction sites, Installing (New Environmental Technology Authentication No. 92) anti-sound barriers around sites 6 Patents and 2 Utility models related to the recovery of contaminated soils Managing wasted water | Daily life-contaminated water that occurs at site operations is emitted based on the policy of water treatment in the corresponding regions. We install contaminated water treatment facilities with a capacity of less than 50m3/day and thoroughly manage them through a daily check and check water quality twice annually for the power supply and verify that the apparatus are running properly. Ecosystem Hyundai E&C is highly dedicated to monitoring its various activities put in place to minimize damages on neighboring construction site ecosystems to protect those areas from negative environmental construction impacts. We Build Tomorrow 33 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Strategy for biological diversity | Hyundai E&C managed the ecosystems of neighboring construction sites by following stringent standards. Before construction, we survey and estimate the effects of a particular design and construction method on the subject ecosystem and determine how to maximize the preservation of that ecosystem and minimize geological changes and plant damages. When we judge that the particular process will negatively impact the ecosystem, we minimize the effect through transplants, preparation of substitute habitats, and design changes. Even after beginning construction, we continuously manage and monitor the situation and cooperate and check with the interested parties concerning the preservation of the neighboring local ecosystem. Ecosystem protection activity | Hyundai E&C performs biological diversity protection activities at the sites based on the Nagoya Protocol (a protocol regarding access and profit sharing of life genetic resources). We minimize damages to ecosystems by establishing aggressive managing measures for construction sites for the protection of both domestic and overseas regions to assure that no waters and living organisms are negatively affected from wasted water emissions. Hyundai E&C performs activities to prepare substitute habitats by creating biological wetlands, installing artificial plant islands, developing natural rivers and green belts, utilizing tree transplants and sand-precipitating areas for the protection of biological diversity at the sites. Moreover, we perform activities of installing protective apparatus and passage ways, such as installing exit paths for small animals and guiding fence, taunt nets to block paths, passages using street trees and structures, and substituting design or construction site changes to reduce noise or vibrations. Managing legally protected species | We thoroughly execute measures for the protection of the ecosystem for sites known to be the habitats of legally protected species within regions covered by our construction projects in 2011. Current legally protected species within Gyeongjeon-line Projects Near Places Under domestic project regions Hanan-Jinju Construction National Protection Falco tinnunculus Incheon Sinhan Construction Environment managing Changwon-Busan Road Construction Haematopus ostralegus, Larus saundersi, Site name region’s name Numenius madagascariensis, Falco tinnunculus, Leopard cat, Milvus migrans, Buteo buteo Sihwa MTV 1, 5 Sea area under Platalea minor Circus cyaneus, Chinemys reevesii working section special watch Nackdong River revitalization, 15 working section Ecologically protected region, Wetland Han River Revitalization-Section 6 Jeju Naval Base-Section 2 Nackdong River protected region revitalization, Polygonatum stenophyllum Maxim, Sesarma intermedium, Psilotum nudum 22 working section Aster altaicus, Eremias argus CASE STUDY_ Hyundai E&C discovered a rare fresh clam, classified as the first class endangered species and named “plicata” in the NakProtecting an endangered species, dong River revitalization project No. 22 worksite. We fully cooperated to limit the environmental effect of the construction “Plicate” on this rare clam using our estimation technology, executed a sample survey within the project section, and held meetings concerning ways to protect the plicata. Moreover, we made great efforts in preserving the plicata by conducting surveys with experts and patrolling the area daily. As a result of our survey, the plicata was moved to the waterside that exposed some dead ones. It was determined that these deaths occurred due to not only its innate tendency of static mobility but also the lowered water level, which all led to their natural deaths.Those discovered in the mainstream section and other sections of the Nakdong river that live hidden under rocks on cliff slides were easily and temporary transplanted. They are expected to fully recover once the water level rises. Hyundai E&C is currently leaving them as they are, executing treatments of the water, discharging them into water when exposed. After the refilling of the reservoirs, we continue to monitor their habitations. Hyundai E&C is also trying its best to protect other living species that live around construction sites. │Plicate 34 Eco-Friendly Building Operation Hyundai E&C performs eco-friendly activities to optimize the use of energy and resources and to develop new eco-friendly ways for the operation of completed buildings as well as buildings in the process of completion. Diagram for Green home system Applying Green Hyundai E&C introduced a green home system that targets energy saving ways to create eco-friendly houses. Item Hillstate Since December 2009, we have reformed and operated a green home TFT, and promoted the Green Hillstate project as an example of those efforts. As a result, we achieved saving 30% of BAU reference energy in 2011. GREEN Furthermore, Hyundai E&C continues to perform activities to develop H-MEG (Hyundai Micro Energy Grid) and HILLSTATE the application of green item projects for reducing continuous energy consumption and carbon emitting. Our goal is to have a ‘zero energy house’ by 2020. Renewable energy (Active Method) 53% Developing a H-MEG (Hyundai Micro Energy Grid) | Hyundai E&C is developing H-MEG in order to establish a unique total solution exclusive of Hyundai E&C for energy supply distribution and efficient operation in both the Macro Grid and the Micro Grid. Through H-MEG, we expect to establish a basis for an integrated-operNatural energy (Passive Method) ating technology for buildings, which can introduce steps to acquire efficiency in production and distribution and 45% use of building energy to maximize energy saving and accommodate various technologies. H-MEG’s Expecting Effect Smart energy (Smart Method) Countering Climate Change Green Remodeling 53% Measure for interfacing performance records Taking advantage of core technology for for CDM/domestic greenhouse gas reduction enhancing energy potentials → advanced business processing (ESCO-interfaced) H-MEG Green Building (HYUNDAI Micro Overseas Energy Grid) Bidding on suggestion of low energy-based Applying to attract new projects, technology Reviewing the new business model Green Home Green City Low energy-based Hillstate Complex Actualizing MEG of Green city · village level Establishment Applying a green item project | Hyundai E&C is executing a green project application in order to correspond to governmental and local policy changes and promotions and to effectively achieve an internal goal. We are promoting our green project by applying eco-friendly authentication and green items to representative projects such as Gympo Hyangsan Hillstate and will produce a complete roadmap for applying the green items through 2020. We will selectively apply the green items to future projects by considering the profitability of doing so as it applies to each project. Water resource recycling Hyundai E&C is applying and installing a middle-sized water-supplying facility which can recycle water for daily usage for various architectural needs to promote daily water recycling. Through the middle-sized water-supplying facility, we can reduce the water usage and water amount by preserving water quality through retreatment of water used once and then re-using it for purposes like bathroom, garden-landscaping and firefighting. Current authentication In 2011, Hyundai E&C obtained an eco-friendly architecture authentication for completed buildings built from 32 domestic projects [comprised of pre-authentications] and an architecture’s energy efficiency rating authenWe Build Tomorrow 35 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix tication for 16 projects. For overseas projects, we obtained 7 Green Mark or LEED authentications and are proceeding with authentication processes for 4 more projects. Moreover, we have received the best rating, Platinum rating, for 3 sites in 7 overseas sites. LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) | The Green Building Rating System is a standard benchmark in regards to the materials and resources, design, structure and functionality of highly functional │BCA GREEN eco-friendly buildings. authentication mark Case for applying green items Hyundai E&C is introducing several green items to its repertoire, such as solar heat, water heat, solar light power generation, land heat cooling and heating, wind power generation, irradiated cooling and heating and fuel cells │LEED authentication mark for all building projects. CASE STUDY 1_ Isu Hillstate Isu Hilstate, to be completed on February of 2013, will be a high-end eco-friendly apartment facility with its application of Hyundai E&C’s high technological ability and use of various green items, such as solar energy, land heat system and ecofriendly lighting system. Energy produced by solar power generation will be used for household power supply and public power supply, and we plan to make our mark as the model to emulate in building solar apartment complexes. Moreover, we plan to reduce a maximum of 60% of energy by substituting underground parking lot lighting with eco-friendly LED lighting in combination with UPIS, an intelligent CCTV video analyzing control system that will efficiently control lighting. CASE STUDY 2_ 2012 Yeosu Expo Hyundai E&C participated in the construction of major exhibition pavilions comprised of the Korea pavilion and the Theme pavilion, the design and building of which was based on its various project executing experiences and excellent technological abilities we have accumulated in domestic and overseas sites by implementing the “global technological ability” used for facilities in Yeosu Expo. The applied systems are as follows: Hydrogen cell system | We introduced a hydrogen cell Minor climate adjusting and natural ventilating syssystem, which is an eco-friendly energy without emitting tem | We applied a system for the adjustment of temperacarbon to reduce the very amount of carbon dioxide emisture and ventilation within the exhibitions by utilizing natural sions when making round trips between Seoul and Pusan energy. 2,400 times with a car (2,000cc class). Energy zero house | We designed an eco-friendly archi│Korea Pavilion Developing a method for the temporary constructecture which made it possible to obtain zero energy and tion of a marine structure | We developed a method for zero carbon emissions for power and cooling/heating loads; the temporary construction of a marine structure, “Heavyattached to the building itself, it highlights exhibitions by Lifting”, to apply to the corresponding method of assembling applying natural lighting and the use of a heat-insulating and in sections, for which large marine equipment cannot be highly efficient electricity/facility system. used. Such an effect thus possibly allows for precise construction so as to have the effect of shortening a construction Kinetic Façade, supported by a [moving stand face] │Theme Pavilion period as brief as 4 months compared to the existing method | We made use of a Kinetic Façade by organically operating for the temporary construction of a marine structure. and controlling 98 stand face panels using a system made by GFRP (Glass Fiber Reinforcement Plastic). At the same time, Shaping exposed concrete with amorphous cured we made use of a Media Façade with the installation of Spot surfaces | We used a new method for making a large LED and Line LED. curved mold by introducing technology that allows for amorphous curved panels to be molded. │Hyundai Motor group Pavilion 36 Eco-Friendly Removal Hyundai E&C systematically operates waste treatment and recycling management systems and has prepared related guidelines to lead the green management campaign, thereby performing standardized eco-friendly removing of wastes from construction sites. Managing wastes to be removed Hyundai E&C collects data and monitors various costs for construction wastes that occur in all sites every year and is proceeding with an integrated management prototype for working steps, types and for cooperating with other companies. Integrated management system for environmental wastes | Hyundai E&C tries to maintain the transparency and reliability of data as it relates to wastes through an integral environment waste managing system and an interlocking H-PMS system and utilize them as reference materials for future bids and budget organization based on a systematic managing system. Project management system | Hyundai E&C is in the process of collecting and managing environmental data which includes energy usages and greenhouse gas emissions in all domestic sites through the project management system H-PMS. We relay this data to employees through an internal Internet system. Waste management plan | When treating wastes, Hyundai E&C follows treatment methods so as to miniEmissions and recycling ( Unit : ton ) amount for wastes mize the environmental effects of particular wastes. Moreover, we have established goals for waste emission Recycling amount Total emission of wastes and material recycling and have developed a plan for accomplishing those goals. We have begun applying and operating activities that include the establishing of waste collecting spots and managing and analyzing waste 1,447,754 emissions for each working unit to minimize waste emission in sites, which produce a lot of wastes that need to be managed. Moreover, we primarily purchase and use recycled materials and circled aggregates whenever possible and also increase our ratio of utilizing materials by selling some wastes which can be recycled from emitted wastes to 580,077 460,022 waste collection companies. For asbestos and wasted oils, we manage them by consigning their management to special organizations and assigned waste treating companies. In 2011, we outsourced about 94% (545,054ton) of our total waste treatment and recycled 6% (35,023ton). 91,882 10,513 35,023 2009 2010 2011 Removal guideline Hyundai E&C prepares various guidelines related to the removal and execution of a systematic, eco-friendly removal system. Standard safety working guidelines for dismantling construction | Hyundai E&C has proposed standard safety working guidelines for dismantling construction to minimize environmental effects and disasters that have often occurred during the dismantling and removal of buildings. These guidelines were written based on the industrial safety standard to be applied to all construction sites where dismantling and removal works are done. Harmful material restricting guideline | Hyundai E&C performs activities for preventing the direct exposure of workers to dangers by exploring whether facilities or buildings contain harmful materials such as asbestos and whether companies are blocking exposure to these substances according to related guidelines. Hyundai E&C captures a contained amount of any asbestos found and analyzes it. When the amount exceeds 1%, we consign the removal of the asbestos to companies that specialize in the removal and disposal of asbestos. We Build Tomorrow 37 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Eco-Friendly Supply Chain To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Hyundai E&C is establishing an eco-friendly supply chain to expand its area over suppliers that are in cooperation and partnership with us to become a leader in eco-friendly management. ECO SCM (Supply Establishing an eco-friendly supply chain Chain Management) Because cooperation with suppliers is important for environmental issues, Hyundai E&C is establishing an ecoConfiguration figure friendly supply network through the propagation of green management for suppliers. HDEC ECO-SCM Key factors Necessity for an eco-friendly supply chain | As the importance of environmental precautions emerges globally, companies need to develop a supply chain of green products and services among suppliers. Hyundai E&C The CEO's will cannot improve the environment by itself. However, by establishing a green managing system and coordinating Supporting technology and finance green efforts with the suppliers, we can make a difference. We will make an effort to systemize supporting systems through use of technology, finance and training for suppliers, assist with updating existing procedures, and Green managing method help with further development of environmentally safe methods in the construction industry. Periodic green training Smooth communication Making Suppliers green Managing integrated system Hyundai E&C is reaching out to the green management of suppliers by hosting green technology conventions and is selecting green-excellent companies from the suppliers in order to develop a green supply chain . Holding green-technology conventions | Hyundai E&C is holding a green technology convention to prepare opportunities to develop a growth-together network through the technological cooperation of companies and academies. Moreover, we are holding conferences to enable the sharing of green technology. Through these activities, hence, we hope to promote the establishment of an eco-friendly supply chain. Selecting green-excellent companies | Hyundai E&C performs an unbiased search for the suppliers and field inspection to determine their green capabilities. We give companies that are determined to display excellent green capability such as companies with ISO 14001 authentication opportunities and incentives to be registered as our suppliers. It promotes the development of a network consisting of eco-friendly green capability suppliers. Green management training for Suppliers | Hyundai E&C holds a “rally to practice green management and energy reduction among the suppliers” in an effort to promote green managements by suppliers. Moreover, we are sharing our green management promotional plan and propagating goals with other like-minded companies whose management is in favor of anticipating climate change, greenhouse gas·energy and trends of global green advanced companies and companies that may be looking to suppliers with us in pursuing our goals. Estimating sustainability | Hyundai E&C is selecting and managing all types of primary cooperative companies to join them in their economical, environmental and social endeavors. From an economical perspective, we evaluate a company’s general conditions in terms of sites, quality, ability and credit ratings; from │Meeting with suppliers and the rally of green management practices an environmental perspective, we evaluate their observance of environmental regulations, managing levels for pollutants, and whether they have obtained ISO14001 authentication. From a social perspective, we evaluate their safety health managing levels, whether they obtained OSHAS·KOSHA 18001 authentication and whether they pay the salaries of their employees. Based on these criterion, Hyundai E&C wants to enable companies to sustainably manage and grow across the green management under our leadership. To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Hyundai E&C places customers first and spares no investment in employees based on a corporate culture of trust between labor and management. With strong partnerships with our suppliers and social contribution activities in communities, Hyundai E&C creates a progressive future designed for the interest of all parties. Creating Win-Win Customer SatisfacEmployee Value Corporate Culture Safety Management Cooperation tion Management Social Contribution Shareholders and Investors M L M M M L Customers M L M L H L Gov. Media, Association H L H H M H Employees H H H H M L Community L M L L L H Suppliers M H H H L L * Materiality by stakeholders H : High·M : Medium·L : Low Principle & Policy | Hyundai E&C has striven to create a corporate culture that can be trusted by all interested parties to leap forward in becoming a global top-tier construction company. Hyundai E&C is working diligently to extend its leadership beyond the domestic construction industry. Hyundai E&C secures its competitiveness by maximizing the value of all employees through Hyundai E&C’s unique human resources fostering programs and various welfare benefits. Hyundai E&C will not allow any discrimination in the process of recruiting employees and evaluating their performance. Furthermore, with the establishment of safety management systems, thorough safety inspections and systems improvement, Hyundai E&C guarantees the safety of employees and suppliers, fairly evaluates all suppliers, and spares no efforts to offer various support including financial and educational support, actualizing their win-win cooperative value. To place customers first and satisfy them, Hyundai E&C operates systematic quality management systems from the design stage to purchase and construction. Hyundai E&C continues to maintain communication and form long-term trust relationships through various types of communication channels. In addition, Hyundai E&C pushes forward social contribution activities for communities and fulfills its responsibility as a global top-tier construction company by actively initiating social contribution activities in overseas markets as it expands the concept of communities beyond Korea. Key Performance Data Type Detailed Items 2009 2010 2011 Employees Current No. of Employees (Persons) 4,738 4,707 5,184 Safety Accident rate (%) 0.24 0.17 0.14 Social Employee participation (Hr) 5,860 45,157 60,275 Contribution Total No. of participants (Persons) 2,254 8,172 16,756 Customers Customer satisfaction survey (score, ranking) 73 80 1st * The current no. of employees represent those of both contracted and permanent positions excluding those directly hired from sites / The customer satisfaction survey was conducted by ‘NCSI’ of Korea Productivity Center until 2010 and then through ‘The Proud’ by Korea Management Association. / Accident rate is represented by the exchanged rate with more weight on the number of deaths. 40 Creating Employee Value Hyundai E&C continually invests in training for global talent to lead innovations in Hyundai E&C and contribute to value creation. Hyundai E&C fosters and manages employees through a uniform recruiting program to become a global leader and also makes diverse efforts to maximize the value of Hyundai E&C’s employees. 01 Equal Opportunity in Personnel Recruitment 04 Safety Management Fair and transparent recruiting Ensuring employees’ safety process, Respect and considwith thorough preventive eration for human rights and inspection and security diversity 03 Fair Performance Evaluation 06 Corporate Culture Process of fair performance Trusted corporate culture evaluation and effective use with communication and of those results harmony 02 05 Various welfare Personnel Development Program Hyundai E&C’s diverse Hyundai E&C’s various welfare activities for strategic efforts to employee convenience foster global leaders and motivation Hyundai E&C’s Vision of Employees Hyundai E&C seeks to cultivate all employees to grow as core manpower equipped for global competitiveness. Hyundai E&C aspires to foster employees who maximize their and the company’s capabilities while contributing to the nation and society. Equal Opportunity in Employee Recruitment To recruit employees who suit the ideal employee of Hyundai E&C, it offers a variety of opportunities to all participants through fair and transparent processes. Securing Talent | In 2011, Hyundai E&C recruited a total of 478 employees, including 101 with experience, 263 new university graduate employees, and 114 interns. Hyundai E&C preemptively secures excellent talent with great potential through our intern system and recruits top-notch talent with great capabilities throughout the year. This contributes to the development of individuals and to the organization. The wages of new employees are averaged at 159% of the minimum legal wage; an average basic annual salary of male employees at Hyundai E&C is KRW 76.22 mil, while that of female’s is KRW 67.44 mil., which shows there is no discrimination by sex although there is a difference in salaries depending on positions and working conditions. We Build Tomorrow 41 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Human Rights and Diversity | Hyundai E&C defines females, foreign workers, men of national merit, and the disabled as minorities and is gradually expanding the ratio of employment from the minority group every year as it executes various benefits and policies to increase diversity. As a global construction company, Hyundai E&C has its own strict standards on social issues such as human rights and labor problems. The company abides by the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Three-Party Treaty and officially supports the Multinational Company Guidelines, the International Sullivan Principle, the UN Frame-work and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. At the same time, Hyundai E&C strictly executes the prevention of child labor and forced work as the company stipulates in the working contract based on the Labor Standards Act. Backed by such efforts, there were no restrictions or accusations regarding this matter in 2011. In addition, Hyundai E&C makes it a rule to provide swift notifications on major business changes such as reorganization of the company based on Article 10, the 'Notice Responsibility, Collective Act'. Fostering Global Leaders Hyundai E&C operates its educational programs for employees to enhance global competitiveness and specialized work capabilities and to develop careers in accordance with individual working propensity and vision. Global Education | Hyundai E&C improves employees’ overseas business operating capabilities by supporting various educational programs such as languages, unique cultures and negotiations and fostering global competitiveness by enhancing dispatch and training activities. Meanwhile, Hyundai E&C pursues such values │Corporate culture education to grow as global leaders through its leadership program. Notably, since 2012, it began offering educational programs to teach 2nd languages, laying a foundation for advancing into new markets and businesses. Specialty Capabilities Enhancement | Hyundai E&C operates various systematic programs including education by rank · work group · position based on working educational systems and EP · CM · PM education. Also, Hyundai E&C helps foster employees to become specialists by establishing sophisticated personnel fostering systems through e-HRD (Human Resource Development). Creating Synergy | Hyundai E&C expands the execution of integrated education in all educational sectors to create synergy with the integration of Hyundai Motor Group. In addition, the Company expands opportunities to participate in PMP (Project Management Professional) fostering training, overseas societies and seminars. It also periodically surveys demands in various ways to offer tailored education to suit the requirements of employees. Hyundai E&C educated 40,733 employees for a total of 731,684 hours in terms of personnel development and fostering in 2011. The annual average education hours per person were 174.9 hours and the average cost per person was KRW 1,190,000. Corporate Culture Education Program Education Program Name Detailed Contents Major Contents : Sharing group management status and vision; sharing the group management spirit system and core values; visiting group companies PMI* 1st Stage Education results : The participation of 4,965 employees of Hyundai E&C in small groups Major contents : Establish a new paradigm about change; establish the roles of an individual in changing situations PMI 2nd Stage Education results : The participation of 5,778 employees of Hyundai E&C in small groups (staff~ assistant managers: 2,680; managers~ general managers: 3,098) Major contents : Activation of organization to create integrated synergy, Establish plans for group synergy and leading positioning strategies PMI 3rd Stage of convergence products. *PMI : Post-Merger Integration 42 Fair Performance Evaluation Hyundai E&C operates a performance evaluation program to accurately understand information about employees’ working capabilities and results and to promote the improvement of individual and organizational performance based on those results. Regardless of the employment relationship and rank, Hyundai E&C’s employees are evaluated based on work evaluation and capability diagnosis through a pre-defined performance evaluation program. With the introduction of a new personnel system, Hyundai E&C has enhanced the overall evaluation process. This includes goal establishment, interim check-ups, year-end evaluation interviews and resulting openings to establish a result-oriented organizational culture through an MBO evaluation system for all employees slated for 2012. All employees of Hyundai E&C are evaluated annually for performance and their performance is managed individually and by division. Bonuses are distributed based on the results through performance evaluations. Welfare & Fringe Benefits System Hyundai E&C offers various welfare & fringe benefits to motivate employees and provide better working conditions. Retirement Pension Fund | Hyundai E&C introduced a retirement pension fund for retiring employees. The retirement pension system is divided into defined payout types and defined contribution types, which can be received in lump sums or as pensions. Hyundai E&C plans to enhance the reception rights of employees by continuously increasing retirement funding in the future. Various Fringe Benefits | Hyundai E&C provides a variety of fringe benefits that respect individual life and secure a better quality of life. Through communication, Hyundai E&C understands the needs and requirements of employees and makes various efforts, including improvements and the expansion of benefit systems. In 2012, Hyundai E&C improved benefits as it placed major improvement items including the introduction of sleeping rooms, offering tickets for saunas, and providing supplies in small preparation rooms. Status of Welfare & Fringe Benefits System Type of Benefits Description Supporting Leisure Life Bonus for summer vacation, discounts for using sports centers, and rent condominium Support for child birth/ maternity protection Birth promotion system, Child-raising subsidies, Birth holidays for male employees (3 days) Support housing/life stability Low interest loan, Single Dormitory Medical/ Health Support Regular medical inspection, Metabolic syndrom, Mental Health, No-Smoking program Education Support 0 ~ middle school: KRW 100,000 per child / High school: KRW 450,000 per child / University: KRW 4 mil. Per semester Legal fringe benefits Presents for parents’ birthdays, Presents on traditional holidays, Provide presents to children for entering a school Selective fringe benefits Offers welfare cards (Differentiated by position.) Others Support subsidies for family movement overseas Supporting employees and families' Ratios related to child-raising holidays health screenings of 2011 Type of Benefits 2009 2010 2011 1,880 M 0.00% 0.03% 0.00% Use ratio of child-raising holidays Persons W 2.09% 2.63% 4.89% 5,671 M 100% Supporting amount of money (million won) Ratio of returning to work W 20.00% 83.33% 38.46% Retention ratio (Ratio of working over M 100% 12 months after returning) W 100% 100% * The reason why the return-to-work ratio is low in 2011 is that the return-to-work period has not ended. All employees (100%) who were supposed to return by the end of maternity leave in 2011 have returned to work. We Build Tomorrow 43 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Corporate Culture To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Hyundai E&C strives to form corporate culture centering on communication and trust. In addition, the company will be like a warm family, by creating a work-life balanced corporate culture for employees and their loved ones. Communicating the Corporate Culture Hyundai E&C strives to form a communicating corporate culture that emphasizes understanding with employees for the smooth flow of management and enhancement of employee satisfaction. Labor Union | Hyundai E&C stipulates that employees of Hyundai E&C can freely sign in or drop out of the labor union at their discretion except for those belonging to the employer in accordance with Article 3 and 5 of the Collective Agreement Labor Union Act. The company cannot hinder or force registration into the union. As of Dec. 2011, employees subject to signing into the labor union were 2,425, among whom were 548 employees, accounting for 22.6% of the labor union. The labor union discussed various matters regarding the improvement of systems, productivity improvement, and improvement in fringe benefits and working environment through the labor-employer committee. It concluded producing various results, such as the payment of subsidies for unused annual holidays and use of annual holidays in groups. Junior Board Activities | The Junior Board, comprised of ‘Young directors’ of assistant managers and managers of Hyundai E&C, is in charge of management improvement activities and provides a communication window between employees and employer. By holding periodic discussions with the CEO and labor union meetings, the junior board is leading change and innovation as it activates communication between management and employees and performs a variety of management improvement activities. Notably, Hyundai E&C is preparing a plan for improving its business performance capabilities by offering the board opportunities to visit advanced companies overseas (global research), beginning with the 21st Junior Board. Resolving Difficulties of Employees | Hyundai E&C actively listens to the complaints and suggestions of employees and provides improvements by operating the ‘Difficulty-Resolving Committee’ to elevate the morale of the members and improve productivity. Hyundai E&C makes efforts to fairly and accurately deal with the difficulties of the employees without discrimination based on the ‘‘Independent Person or Department Principle’, which objectively measures and improves the employees’ level of satisfaction as it manages internal complaints. Sharing Intranet | Hyundai E&C shares knowledge and cases on the Intranet that help employees regarding │Global Research Activities their work and education. Through ‘Idea Silo’ or the ‘CUG (Closed User Group) corner, in which employees can freely upload ideas and evaluate them, Hyundai E&C operates inter-knowledge sharing platforms related to work, providing employees convenient access to work-related knowledge. In addition, Hyundai E&C annually analyzes management and develops corrections and cases to share with all employees. Trusted Corporate Culture │Empowerment education of the Junior Board Hyundai E&C makes campaigns to establish itself as a trusted company by forming a transparent and sound culture. ‘Spending Sound Traditional Holidays’ Campaign | In order to make up a sound and pleasant company atmosphere in celebrating traditional holidays based on transparent ethical management, Hyundai E&C operates a gift report center so that bribing gifts/entertainment to other companies or superiors are discouraged. 44 Change by Forming a Corporate Culture To form a corporate culture of communication and trust, Hyundai E&C continues its improvement and development activities. Through such processes, Hyundai E&C executes activities such as improving the treatment of on-site workers and guarantees of employees’ safety. New changes have been made in various sectors including new growth engines and new market development. Family-oriented Corporate Culture Hyundai E&C has been engaged in various activities to implant the spirit of ‘ One Family’ and enhance the morale of employees and their sense of belonging. Harmonizing Event | Hyundai E&C engages in hours of harmonizing together by holding various activities at each business group such as athletic competitions, environmental protection activities, social contribution activities, tracking, and cultural events. Children’s Camps and Experience Learning | Hyundai E&C offers the children of employees summer camps and various types of learning experience activities. Hyundai E&C has striven to provide better programs by continuously improving and complementing these programs through active reflection of opinions received from questionnaires rather than offering one-time events. 1,2. Planning Division·R&D Division 3 Harmonizing Event 3,4. Children's experience learning-Visiting Aerospace museum 5. Procurement Division Harmonizing Event 1 2 4 5 We Build Tomorrow 45 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Safety Management To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix For the safety and healthy environment of employees, Hyundai E&C sets strategic goals of 1) Establishing Total Safety by cultivating HSE (Health, Safety and the Environment)spirits of all employees; 2) Enhancing Proactive Program by each Business Division; 3) Creating ZERO number of severe accident and environmental accidents; and 4) Pre-Work Authorization throughout entire process (PTW) in order to achieve the goal. Enhancing Safety Management In 2011, Hyundai E&C operated the HSE team in the business division to promote the formation of a safe business environment for increased competitiveness by preventing severe accidents and internalizing safety management systems. With this, the business divisions began to have stronger interest and responsibility in safety management than any other times, showing positive results such as a reduction in accident rates. In the future, Hyundai E&C will make its utmost effort to eliminate severe accidents and thoroughly guarantee the safety of the employees through close cooperation with the industrial safety and health committee, separately operated at each site and the HSE team, which governs all of them. Selection of Major Efforts for Safety Management Accidents by Season Hyundai E&C established an internal safety information IT network (H-PMS) system, which classifies safety(Month) related information at work sites by each process and records actual risk evaluations, systematically managing safety. Hyundai E&C substantially increases the effect and efficiency of the safety management by improving various existing programs and introducing new programs and systems based on total safety management Fire 12~1 through stringent record management within the system. Collapse 2~3 Enhancement of On-Site Safety Management by the Executive Managements | Hyundai E&C sets Falls 4~6 the 4th of every month as the ‘Day of Safety Inspection’. Executive Managements regularly inspect on safety themselves on this specific date, inspiring the safety-spirit of the employees. Flood 7~8 Equipment and Falls 9~10 Thorough One Point Safety Management by Season with Frequent Accidents | Hyundai E&C selects periods for major management targeting repetitive accidents with high frequency of occurrence. Through company-wide campaigns and training, Hyundai E&C prevents safety-related accidents. Expansion of Accident Rate Results and Enhancing Punishment | Hyundai E&C shares accidentrelated information by officially sending quarterly accident rate results. Going forward, Hyundai E&C will make it a responsibility to register the quarterly accident rate results, which are currently shared through an official document form by using the internal groupware of Hyundai E&C. In addition, Hyundai E&C has enhanced punishment to site management such as a site head, regarding whether his/her responsibility was performed properly at sites where serious accidents occurred. In future, in the event of serious accidents, Hyundai E&C will upgrade the level of punishment and expand subjects to be considered for the punishment by including all employees in a target range rather than persons in charge, which will substantially elevate safety management effects. Thorough Operation of Onsite Inspection Systems | Hyundai E&C has made efforts for safety management through strict onsite inspections during the process of construction, including 432 support inspections, 126 evaluation inspections and 105 special inspections. Going forward, Hyundai E&C will make sure that the onsite inspection evaluation period can be flexibly adjusted to consider the size and characteristics of each construction case. The plan includes improvements in the impartiality of the evaluation inspections and substantial effects by │Active participation of management for increasing the proportional frequency of commencing the evaluations and inspections without prior notification. safety management 46 Expansion of the Reward System for Sites Achieving Zero Accidents | Hyundai E&C pays rewards to those sites achieving a zero accident rate based on standards that encourage more active accident-prevention activities to site workers. Hyundai E&C provides strong incentives to employees for accident-prevention activities by sharing excellent safety management cases along with paying rewards for their achievements. Result of Safety Health Enhance Safety Health Environment Training | Hyundai E&C offers work-related HSE training to all work sites Environment Training of 2011 in accordance with HSE Training Regulations that require Subcontractors to provide HSE training to site workers Total participation of HSE training through the Project HSE Plan. The HSE training course is composed of all 9 courses, specialized for the positions 3,208 Persons and tasks of employees. In 2011, HSE training courses had a total participation of 3,208 people. In 2011, HSE training courses were offered as newly formatted open-discussion programs rather than lecture-type programs. Satisfaction of HSE training Quantitative goals of the training are set at 80% of trainees’ satisfaction throughout the training courses. Results participants of questionnaire surveys showed that 85.76% of all trainees were satisfied with the training content. 85.76% Certification of the Health & Safety Management System Through the certifications of the Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18001, KOSHA 18001), Hyundai E&C is highly recognized for maintaining its onsite safety and health in excellent conditions. In 2011, a total of 237 domestic sites were reviewed and awarded certifications of OHSAS18001 and KOSHA 18001. Hyundai E&C will continue to respond to annual reviews and decisions upon recertification of the company that Accident Rate for the Past 3 Years are held every three years. ( Unit : % ) Hyundai E&C accident rate Average accident rate per 1000 construction companies Average domestic accident rate Safety Accident Occurrences and Response 0.7 The industrial accident rate of Hyundai E&C was 0.14% in 2011, far below the average industrial accident rates 0.69 0.65 in the same industry. It is also well below an average of domestic industrial accident rates. Furthermore, as Hyundai E&C has made ceaseless efforts to prevent industrial accidents and provide safe working environments 0.5 for employees, Hyundai E&C has been able to continue to reduce accident rates for the past 3 years. As for 0.41 0.46 recurring accidents, Hyundai E&C responds to them by preparing comprehensive countermeasures by clearly 0.24 determining a cause of the accidents by construction type, accident type and accident cause. It also offers site 0.17 0.14 workers training, site risk assessment, and safety inspections by each site. 2009 2010 2011 CASE STUDY_ Inspiring Safety Recognition and Preventing Accidents through System Improvement Hyundai E&C has been leading the way in creating safe working environments by continuously reviewing, revising and applying internal regulations and systems related to the HSE. Major Improvement of Systems in 2011 Type Permit To Work Out System for Safety Rule Violators Advanced pre-accident prevention system for ‘Permit to Work’ that To inspire the safety-spirit from all employees including workers, the company-wide punishment Overview establishes safety rule-planning for expected risk factors before standards have been clearly stipulated for violators of onsite safety rules in accordance with the works begin, including frequent accidents and highly potential risks violation level of safety rules. If working without acquiring the pre-permit to work or not Type Disciplinary Action Application Standards implementing risk reduction measures written on the work Not wearing a safety belt in case of working at height permit, the work can be stopped. 1OUT Dismissal Not wearing a safety helmet AppliEquipment operation with no license cable High-risk works with frequent accidents (9 types) 1st : Warning Not wearing PPEs (safety helmet/belt, etc.) 1. Working at 4. Excavation work 7. Hot work 2OUT 2nd : Dismissal Dismantling safety facilities without authorization and not restoring them Subject height 5. Equipment work 8. Confined 1st : Warring 2. Scaffold work 6. High working space work Not abiding by safety/environment basic rules 3OUT 2nd : Special Training 3. Forms work platforms 9. Ladder work (company-wide/onsite standards) 3rd : Dismissal A monthly average number of accident cases has reduced Results Application results: warned 5,485, trained 6,416, out 830 from 6.6 to 3.7 We Build Tomorrow 47 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Win-Win Cooperation To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Hyundai E&C seeks for continuous win-win cooperation with suppliers. We will contribute to the nation and society with mutual growth through various support and cooperation. Efforts for Win-Win Cooperation Based on the management philosophy, ‘suppliers are our Companions for Growth Rather than Subordinating Relationships’, Hyundai E&C seeks to accomplish the following: continuous growth with suppliers; smooth partnerships; and expansion that attracts cooperative efforts for greater synergy including overseas advancements in harmony. Recovery through Financial Assistance Mutual-Growth Fund | Hyundai E&C has created a Mutual-Growth Fund worth KRW 38 billion to help suppliers cope with financial hardships. At the same time, to offer more substantial help to suppliers, Hyundai E&C has shortened payment due dates and increased the cash payment ratio. In addition, Hyundai E&C is also reviewing a plan in which a fund of KRW 22 billion is to be loaned out interest-free to superior suppliers that are experiencing short-term financial hardships twice a year. Hyundai E&C plans to expand such financial assistance programs through continuous PR efforts. Balance through Systematic Training Support Transparent · Ethical Management Training | Hyundai E&C offers training on transparent, ethical management to employees of suppliers to practice transparent and sound cooperation with suppliers and practice transactional work ethics among companies. In addition, Hyundai E&C also provides employees transparency training, training on improvement of the bidding system, and training on overseas electronic bidding systems. This balances training within and outside the company. Overseas Advancement Support Training | Hyundai E&C offers training to employees at suppliers that wish to advance to overseas markets. This training includes contents that substantially assist suppliers in their advancement to overseas markets. The training includes a concept of macro-understanding that encompasses international relations in the Middle East and global business negotiations. It also includes details such as matters relating to local manpower and purchasing as well as improving the capabilities of employees by supporting their advancement to overseas. Through this training plan, Hyundai E&C lays down a foundation for co-advancement with suppliers to overseas markets. │Overseas Advancement Support Training Development through Technology Support Win-Win Cooperative Technology Exposition | Hyundai E&C helps suppliers’ technolo-gical development by actively supporting their movement and sharing and developing technologies in favor of the suppliers. In addition, Hyundai E&C has continuously supported technologies for advancement to overseas since 2008. Hyundai E&C gives incentives to award-winning suppliers, which grants additional scores at the time of suppliers │Win-Win Cooperation Technology Exposition evaluation. Among award-winning technologies are site-applicable ones that are granted onsite construction rights by Hyundai E&C. 48 Selecting Suppliers Hyundai E&C operates its registration and procedure transparently for the fair selection of suppliers and gives equal opportunities to all applicant companies. When selecting suppliers, Hyundai designates an adherence to environment · health · safety standards as a requirement and operates a low-price deliberation system to prevent excessively low-price bidding, thereby securing stable management and appropriate profits for suppliers. Communication with Suppliers Suppliers Association and Seminars | Hyundai E&C has a systematic communication system for enacting smooth understanding with suppliers and swift mutual reactions. The suppliers association is composed of 8 divisions with a total of 295 suppliers as members. It records the difficulties and suggestions of the suppliers and maintains close cooperative relationships with each member company. Currently, a number of the member companies comprise 6.2% of all major suppliers of Hyundai E&C. Hyundai E&C also holds co-growth seminars to invite suppliers of outsourced construction bids to explain how to operate supply businesses, enhancing their │Mutual-growth seminar with suppliers competitiveness. Hi-Partner System | Hyundai E&C operates entire work process with suppliers including bidding·contracts, etc. through the Hi-Partner IT system. The company enhanced work efficiency by computerizing all contractrelated works online. Management and Operation of suppliers Hyundai E&C established a management scheme of suppliers through regulation towards purchase suppliers. By setting these standards with newly established partnering groups and re-establishing evaluation standards, the company uniformly re-evaluates existing suppliers and newly discovered excellent suppliers. In addition, by segmenting information management items and making suppliers renew suppliers information, Hyundai E&C created a real-time management system. By reorganizing item classification standards, the company focuses on managing core products and automatically generates purchase execution plans on the system, elevating work efficiency. Win-Win Cooperative Policies Win-Win Cooperation Suppliers Communication Encourage the R&D of suppliers Hi-Partner (IT cooperative System) Expand the exploration of regional suppliers Satisfaction Survey Enhance the Cooperative system of overseas Training & Workshop businesses Encourage suppliers to abide by HSE standards Support the ethical management of suppliers Hyundai E&C Suppliers Direction of Win-Win Cooperative Policy Establish trust through fair transactions Support enhancement of suppliers competitiveness We Build Tomorrow 49 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Customer Satisfaction Management To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Based on our corporate culture of placing customers first, Hyundai E&C sets a vision of ‘Global No.1 HDEC Quality’ and strives to improve the level of quality. Hyundai E&C also does its best to maximize customer value by focusing on communication with customers and providing various services that value them. Quality Innovation Efforts and Results The quality organization of Hyundai E&C’s division is composed of one group and 4 teams. The manpower is dispatched in accordance with onsite quality personnel input standards, and Hyundai E&C makes active investments in enhancing the quality management capabilities of employees. Quality Management Planning Team | The Quality Management Planning Team ensures the integrated and systematic management of quality by establishing an advanced quality management system. In 2011, a foundation for quality innovation was laid down by modulating all works in certain types of process, especially an IT-based standardized company-wide work processes. The advanced quality management system is operated through e-QMS to be used as an inter-communication tool for resolving problems between head office and sites. Going forward, Hyundai E&C seeks to measure the quality management performance based on quality cost management and improve it, seeking to adopt 6-Sigma quality innovation management. Engineering Quality Management Team | The Engineering Quality Management Team makes efforts to improve the design quality of head office and sites by auditing design quality. Hyundai E&C proactively responds to plausible problems by understanding them through design quality prevention activities. In 2011, Hyundai E&C understood the status of design quality for each business division, site, affiliate (Hyundai Engineering Co., Hyundai Architects & Engineers Assoc.) and design outsourcing company. It established response measures depending on the results. In 2012, Hyundai E&C made its utmost effort to establish optimum design quality as it developed design work standard guidelines and processes by holding quarterly quality design committee meetings. In addition, as part of design quality prevention activities, Hyundai E&C supports design value engineering and makes efforts to secure optimum quality from a design stage through design-related feedbacks. Procurement Quality Management Team | The Procurement Quality Management Team manages the quality of equipment and materials at sites, from placement of the order to materials delivery on sites. This is achieved through PO pre-review, vendor document review/approval, setting and visiting inspection sites. While performing preventive quality activities through the training of suppliers and audits as well as inspections, Hyundai E&C established a system for securing procurement quality (Project Space, Topics). Through this system, achieving cooperation among all internal organizations related to quality purchasing as well as with suppliers has been enabled. In addition, Hyundai E&C created exemplary/failure cases in DB, which are used as Lessons Learned when ordering new products. In 2012, We plan to develop and operate a quality chain for the win-win development with TPA and vendors. Therefore, plans for training, participation and support have been prepared. Furthermore, for customized support for the increasing number of overseas projects, dedicated manpower is dispatched by project, and Hyundai E&C has been making efforts to equip for close communications and proper timing support systems. CASE STUDY_ Execution of the Procurement Quality Management Team Hyundai E&C introduced and executed ‘the Skeleton Quality Evaluation System’ on all apartment complex sites to improve the quality of frameworks in apartment construction since 2006. The Procurement Quality Management Team improves the quality level by checking and evaluating the status of form installation and rebar arrangement before placing concrete. It checks such areas with non-destructive test equipment to check the status of finishing and obedience of thickness of cover concrete. Hyundai E&C enables measurement of the skeleton framework level of apartment complex sites by scoring and standardizing the skeleton framework quality level, which could not have been quantified using the existing construction supervision system. │Quality Evaluation Using the Skeleton Quality Furthermore, with the execution of the skeleton framework quality evaluation, Hyundai E&C was able to not only improve the Evaluation System quality level but also cut cost, since rework has been reduced through systematic quality management. 50 Construction Quality Management Team | The Construction Quality Management Team operates the quality evaluation and audit system to improve site quality, through which the team presents directions for improving quality of the site on its own. Hyundai E&C also manages supplier history to maintain the quality level of subcontractors and send feedback to Subcontract Group. Real-time site support system is established with operation of pre-check-ups prior to completion and site patrol. In 2011, quality was evaluated at 53 sites with construction ratings of 40~80%, and the results were shared through e-QMS. In 2012, quality evaluations will be made at 68 sites. Other than site quality evaluations, quality audits are made for major departments at head office, site preparation teams and sites as required by Owners. For the early-stage sites, training is offered with visits to the site to inspire quality recognition for all site workers. Hyundai E&C makes efforts to establish online quality systems and share information/technology through the establishment of a HQCM. Enhancing Customer Communication through Various Channels Customer Communication Channel Status Hyundai E&C operates various on and offline communication channels with customers to quickly and efficiently deal with their opinions. Type Channel Homepage Customer Center (1:1 Online consultation) Online Channel | Hyundai E&C opened its customer center page on the Hyundai E&C website, (www.hdec. Online co.kr) and presents FAQs regarding the most frequently asked questions by customers. The site is equipped with Hillstate website Customer Center (Call Center) a swift response system created to provide answers to any curious questions or difficulties and provides a 1:1 Telephone and mail registration online consultant for customers' convenience. Offline 7 local offices Residence Support Center Offline Channel | Hyundai E&C actively responds to customer opinions made through telephone, mail and visits to its head office. It provides quick communication through 7 local offices of customer contact points and residing support centers. In addition, Hyundai E&C also listens to opinions and requirements of residents through the ‘Resident Representative Committee’ and ‘Women’s Society’ which represent the voice of the residents. Hillstate Website | Hyundai E&C operates a dedicated website of Hillstate (www.hillstate.co.kr), its leading brand. On this site, Hyundai E&C provides information regarding re-development, A/S and lot-outs and also offers a consultation service, elevating the efficiency of responses to customers. In addition, Hyundai E&C operates a customer center (call center) to create a system where customers can raise complaints and problems over the phone at any time. │Hillstate Customer Center Homepage Status of Customer Satisfaction Activities Hyundai E&C provides total customer satisfaction services through its ‘brand strategy team’ and CS center to enhance the brand value of HILLSTATE, the apartment brand launched in Sep. 2006, and to provide customer convenience and efficient management. Enhance Customer-Responding Education | Hyundai E&C respectfully takes preparatory steps for the increase in customer involvement by reinforcing the capabilities of the customer center. In 2011, Hyundai E&C provided education on consultation skill over 13 sessions, targeting those who are in frequent contact with actual customers. These included communication skills, how to deal with claims, etc. Furthermore, Hyundai E&C offered CS experience education to staff and assistant manager-level employees working at head office over 8 sessions. In 2012, more education opportunities are underway for employees of either manager or general manager level, and the education is expanding to cover lot-out office heads, on-site employees and management of major suppliers. Information Accessibility Enhancement | Based on the operation of the Hillstate homepage, Hyundai E&C has made efforts for customers to quickly and conveniently access lot-out and cultural events related to Hillstate by creating a mobile Hillstate site in 2011. In addition, Hyundai E&C runs the Hillstate café to induce friendship among members through the free exchange of thoughts and uses it as a window for delivering information on Hillstate-related events and other matters. We Build Tomorrow 51 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Customer-participating Service Improvement Activities | Hillstate Styler is a panel of sensible customers leading the style and housing culture of Hillstate. Hyundai E&C thinks of the Hillstate Styler system as an important window for collecting and reflecting customer needs through direct customer VOC listening activities. In 2011, a total of 8 members came together at the 4th panel of Hillstate Styler, presenting improvement Activities of the 4th Hillstate plans for products and consulting on products and services. There have been a total of 14 activities, among Styler of 2011 which 43 out of 278 suggestions were reflected upon issues regarding improvement of products and services. Hillstate Styler advisory activities 14 time After Service and Feed Back | Regarding requirements of apartment residing customers, Hyundai E&C continues to manage satisfaction of customers through A/S center and notify their receipt of A/S through SMS. 43 Reflections of Hillstate Styler's suggestions case Providing Art & Culture Program | Hyundai E&C makes efforts to improve customer satisfaction by providing diverse and differentiated performance and cultural events to the residents of Hillstate. In 2011, the company offered 6 concert-style cultural events, 2 family-inviting performances and 1 exhibition. Customer Satisfaction Survey In 2011, Hyundai E&C was well received for excellence in its customer value through 'THE PROUD‘, an award that comprehensively evaluates quality excellence, reliability, intent to recommend to others, and continuously use by Korea Management Association. The results of ‘THE PROUD’ evaluation on Hillstate, Hyundai E&C’s representative product, showed that it acquired the highest scores among 9 products, including the products of other construction companies, ranking 1st in the ‘Korea The Proud Index’ two year in a row and broadly │Korea The Proud Index 1st displaying its standing in the market. Abiding by Marketing Communication Regulations Hyundai E&C abides by laws and regulations regarding marketing communications that are related to advertising and sales promotion to earn customers’ faith through delivering accurate and correct information to the customers. Hyundai E&C voluntarily prevents the breach of trust with customers through inappropriate marketing methods. In 2011, Hyundai E&C violated none of these laws and regulations. │Hillstate Styler Model House Evaluation and Suggestions │Hillstate Family-inviting performance CASE STUDY_ Formation of the Individual Information Protection Committee To protect and manage customer information in more systematic ways, Hyundai E&C Roles and Functions of the Individual Individual Information formed the Individual Information Protection Committee. A Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) Information Protection Committee Protection Organization was appointed to operate the committee, and as such, Hyundai E&C makes ceaseless Establish an annual business plan regarding individual information protection Chief Protection Officer (CPO) efforts to be re-born as an organization leading the practice of individual information protection beyond a passive response to the Act of Individual Information Protection. Pre and post work discussion of the committee Assistant Administrators The Individual Information Protection Committee has a CPO and an assistant adminAdjust and make resolutions regarding istrator to manage 3 sectors, namely customers, employees and supports. Each sector agendas related to policies Customer_ Section in Charge appoints a person in charge of management and actual affairs, enabling substantial Check individual information protection Employee_ Section in Charge protection of individual information. Going forward, the protection activities of cusand education activities Support_ Section in Charge tomer information will be further enhanced based on the individual information proSupports other necessary matters related tection committee, and through such activities, Hyundai E&C will establish stronger to other customer information customer trust relationships with the company. 52 Social Contribution Hyundai E&C actualizes the win-win value with communities by providing social contribution activities in its 3 major activities; Love Sharing, Hope Sharing and Culture Sharing. In 2011, backed by active support, Hyundai E&C was able to expand its scope of social contribution overseas as well as Korea. Establishing a Foundation for Socially Responsible Management The time beginning the year 2010 and continuing along the year 2011 at Hyundai E&C has been a period of establishing foundations for social responsibility management to perform social contribution activities in earnest. In 2012, Hyundai E&C will do its utmost to earnestly expand and establish a culture of sharing based on our systematically prepared social responsibility management foundation. Forming a Social Contribution Organization and Establishing the System | Hyundai E&C launched a social contribution group, forming a driving force for social contribution activities. Since then, Hyundai E&C │Logo of Hyundai E&C social has been engaged in various social contribution activities focused on volunteer groups every year. Furthermore, contribution group in 2011, Hyundai E&C made efforts to establish the framework of social contribution as it induced voluntary participation of employees by improving the social contribution mileage system that can quantify their social contribution activities. Based on such a foundation, Hyundai E&C leaps forward to become a company shaping hopeful futures for everyone by communicating with interested parties and supporting classes in need and the │Slogan of Hyundai E&C social socially neglected to fit into the mantra expressed in the corporate slogan, ‘We Build Tomorrow’. contribution group Promote Employees’ Voluntary Participation in Volunteering Activities Hyundai E&C strives to help local communities by preparing a system that can encourage and support the voluntary participation of Hyundai E&C employees in social contributions. To elaborate in a more detailed fashion, Hyundai E&C, using the social contribution mileage program, selects 5 excellent social contribution participants annually and offers awards and money as stipulated, offering them special opportunities to be dispatched to overseas social contribution activities next year. As such, Hyundai E&C induces participation of its employees in social contribution activities. Going forward, Hyundai E&C will do its utmost to establish and improve systems so that labor union and division units can actively promote the social contribution activities as well as encourage employees’ voluntary participation in such activities. New Social Contribution Activities With social contribution activities, Hyundai E&C strengthens a cooperative system with companies in the Group and enhances support for them. In addition, Hyundai E&C also strives to establish socially responsibly management systems on a global scale by pursuing social contribution activities as it expands the concept of local communities to overseas from Korea. In overseas regions, a local community center has been under construction in Sanishidro region, Philippines, since Sept. 2011, using donations of cents of employees’ salaries. This community center is expected to house a vocational education center for daily workers, a medical center for the treatment of Hyundai E&C Social local residents, a care center for the education of children, etc. Contribution Strategies Introduction Period 2010~2011 Expansion Period 2012 Establish Major In-house Programs and Systems Establish a system to encourage employee-volunteering activities Internal Launched Hyundai E&C Social Contribution Group Internal Motivate social contribution activities Introduced social contribution mileage · returner program Expand the support for CSR activities by labor union and head office Encouraged employees to achieve 8 mileages per year Expand social contribution mileage reward Enhance competitiveness in external social responsibility management Major 3 Social Contribution Activities External External Develop strategic CSR projects Actively explore overseas CSR Love Sharing Hope Sharing Culture Sharing Support group-related 4 Move activities We Build Tomorrow 53 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Active Pursuits of 3 Major Social Contribution Activities Three major social contribution activities are divided into ‘Love Sharing’, a social welfare support project, ‘Hope Sharing’, an educational support project, and ‘Culture Sharing’, a culture & art support project, depending on the subjects and activity content. Each project has been pushed forward as social contribution activities that reflect the unique characteristics of the construction industry. Love Sharing | One of the major causes of the Love Sharing social contribution activities is housing improvement activities for socially underprivileged people. In detail, the housing environment was improved and damaged households were repaired for socially underprivileged people such as the disabled and self-dependant elderly in 2011. Regarding housing improvement, in 2011, a total of 367 volunteers participated in the activities by inputting KRW 824,800,000 as their support for the improvement of the housing environment for the elderly in Sosadong, renovating welfare residential facilities for the disabled in Geoje, and redesigning the residential environment of damaged regions near the Seomjin river region. In addition, Hyundai E&C has expanded its related activities overseas to support the establishment of a local community center in the Sanishidro region, Philippines. Hope Sharing | In the Hope Sharing sector, Hyundai E&C operated ‘Green Tree Hope Wing’, a program which Areas of Donation Granted supports children whose parents died from construction disasters or accidents. This program is the first case in Korea that supports children together with the Children’s Foundation, as 300 households are in dire need Environment Education as stated by the Children’s Foundation. These children were left behind after their fathers’ deaths caused by 19% · Research construction accidents nationwide. In 2011, Hyundai E&C supports KRW 100,000 ~180,000 on the 15th every 22% month to selected children. Employees also assist with their studies and offer mentoring services, bringing dreams and hope to the children. Culture, Art · Sports 6% Culture Sharing | Culture Sharing social contribution activities support cultural heritage restoration construction. Hyundai E&C has been actively engaged in the related projects since making an agreement ‘1 Keeper for 1 Social Welfare Cultural Heritage’ with the Cultural Heritage Administration in July 2005. In 2011, Hyundai E&C supported the 53% restoration of Geumcheon Bridge in Changdeok Palace, a World Cultural Heritage, and completed it in April 2012. Social Contribution Activities In 2011, a total donation made by the head office of Hyundai E&C was approximately KRW 1.6 billion. Through 3 major social contribution activities, Hyundai E&C forms and executes donations while performing the sharing activities. Hyundai E&C encourages employees’ participation in social contribution activities, from chipping in donations for social contribution to participating in local volunteering activities. In 2011, a total of 16,756 employees participated in 4,758 social contribution programs, spending a total of 60,275 hours in social contribution activities. │2011 Delivering Rice of Love Event Hyundai Motor Group 4 Move Activities CASE STUDY_ Companies in the Group Participating in Social Contribution Activities Hyundai E&C also leads the sharing activities by actively participating in social contribution Safe Move Happy Move activities initiated by the Group companies while independently providing substantial help and Spread of traffic Volunteering differentiated activities in social contribution. safety culture together Plans to enhance cooperation in social contribution related with the Group in 2012 Easy Move Green Move Participate in the Group’s ‘2020 Social Responsibility Mid-to-long-term Strategies’ : Improving mobility Restoration of Enhance practicing 27 goals with 9 tasks in 3 sectors convenience for the the ecological traffic handicapped environment Support the group’s major social contribution projects : Support 4 Move activities: dispatch global youth volunteering group Donate money for the poor at year-end and national holidays : Donate money on New Year’s, Thanksgiving day and emergency disasters. Support the group’s culture and art social contribution projects : Moving the World Together Support employee’s cultural performances (Brunch Concert) 54 Special Representative Social Contribution Activities of Hyundai E&C Love Sharing Hyundai E&C held its “2011 Officers and Employees Charity Auction” event from October 19 to November 4, 2011. This charity auction event was conducted through a separate internal website, where officers and employees were allowed to bid for registered possessions or donations through an auction. As a result of the fervent response of officers and employees, 581 items were auctioned off and all proceeds received from the auction were donated to the ‘monthly payment’s cents raising organization’ at Hyundai E&C. 1, 2. Book sharing market 3. Convection of employees's donation 4. Flower and pollen sharing market 5. Sharing auction market 6, 7. Hope sharing activities 8. Launch of volunteer group of “Lunch Box of Hope” 9, 10. Activities of protection Changdeokgung 8 1 2 3 6 9 4 5 7 10 Hope Sharing The “Lunch Box of Hope” activity of Hyundai E&C is a representative social Contribution activity that the company participated in. The purpose of the activity was to hand-deliver a lunch box to vacationing families. Lunch boxes were delivered to 43 children (elementary, middle and high schools) from 21 houses in Jongro-gu and Jung-gu, Seoul alongside the Children Foundation. In 2011, 90 volunteers from Hyundai E&C head office joined this event and each group of 2-3 persons played an important role in this “Hope Sharing” company event. In addition to the delivery of lunch boxes, employee volunteers distributed educational books and engaged in emotion-centric mentoring byparticipating in 1 on 1 relationships with participants. We Build Tomorrow 55 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Love Culture Hope Culture Sharing Geumcheon of Geumcheongyo Bridge, National Treasure No. 1762 of Korea, was revived by Hyundai E&C’s support at “Geumcheon Shrine”, which was an event held in Changdeok Palace in April 2012. Geumcheon is named after a brook that runs through the palace of the Choseon Era. Changdeokgung Geumcheon is the brook where the water originates from a small mountain that runs down to the palace, goes through Cheonggye river and runs to the side of Donhwamun to the end of Gwolnaegaksa. To revive Geumcheon, Hyundai E&C developed the surface water area of the broken upper Geumcheon and completed the 350m waterway construction between the upper Geumcheon river and Donhwamun in 2011. To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Hyundai E&C continues its development by creating a balance between its external goals such as the objective to increase sales and its internal goals such as the objective to promote an intensification of a morale management system. Hyundai E&C strives to become an enterprise worthy of being respected by all stakeholders through its investment in local communities, job creation and production increase. Public Benefit Stability Economic Feasibility Shareholders and Investors L H H Customers M H H Gov. Media, Association M M H Employees L H H Community H M H Suppliers L H H * Materiality by stakeholders H : High·M : Medium·L : Low Principle & Policy | Hyundai E&C has fostered a trust in the Board by employees by creating a Board management style that is transparent so as to secure internal stability. Hyundai E&C also strives to improve its non-financial stability by establishing a concept of morale management and providing education programs to employees and suppliers as well as financial stability in forms of improvement in the company’s debt-equity ratio and capital adequacy ratio. Hyundai E&C has contributed to the company’s founding of seamless job creation and production through the investment and supply of its core infrastructure, which has become a base for the company’s national development. Also, as a global top-tier construction enterprise, Hyundai E&C has endeavored to develop new markets by strengthening its entry into developing countries in Central and South America, Africa and CIS. Hyundai E&C is growing to become an even more competitive enterprise through its active exchange and collaboration system with the companies in the Group. Key Performance Data Description Item 2009 2010 2011 Debt ratio (%) 167.4 152.4 147.4 Stability Capital adequacy ratio (%) 37.4 39.6 40.4 Credit rating (Corporate bond) AAAAAAPublic Benefit Community investment (KRW) 7 Bil. 6 Bil. 6.8 Bil. Economic Sales (KRW) 9.3 Tril. 10 Tril 10.1 Tril. Feasibility Net income ratio (%) 4.9 4.3 5.0 58 Stability Hyundai E&C has been leading its successful business activity by making its Board transparent, participating in responsible activities and developing stable management practices. Hyundai E&C believes that it could internally upgrade the awareness of officers and employees regarding corporate ethics through internalizing ethical management and also could externally build a stronger business base through a comprehensive risk management plan to change its market environment and improve financial stability. Stock Issuing Status and Ownership Structure As of march 2012, the total number of outstanding stock of Hyundai E&C is 111, 454, 621 shares, including preferred stocks. As of March 31, 2012, the largest shareholder, Hyundai Motor, holds 20.93% of the company’s total shares, and Hyundai Mobis, KIA Motors and Hyundai Motor Group hold the remaining 8.72%, 5.23% and 34.9%, respectively. Formation of the Board Hyundai E&C’s Board is organized with a total of 7 directors which includes 1 inside director, 4 outside directors and 2 other directors. More than 50% of the total directors on the Board are outside directors. Outside directors are responsible for objectively monitoring the management activity of the company and have performed the role of facilitator of the company’s management. Also, outside directors are appointed experts who have the expertise and working experience in particular fields such as a legal field, an accounting field and an architecture field. The President of Hyundai E&C is the chairman of the Board of Hyundai E&C, and independent outside directors have been appointed to strengthen the Board’s independence. By engaging outside-independent directors to monitor the CEO’s management activity, the company has been able to set up mediation between the inside director and the outside directors. Consequently, at the convocation of regular meetings held by the outside directors, opinions gathered from outside directors were voiced and suggestions were made, leading to gaining independence of the Board by Hyundai E&C. 2011 Board Roles and Major Performance Hyundai E&C has done its best to maximize corporate value and build the trust of stakeholders based on its corporate governance of valuing stakeholder’s profit under supervision of an independent and transparent Board. In 2011, 12 board meetings were held to discuss a total of 35 agendas. Directors should attend the Board meetings with at least a 70% attendance rate as provided in the Regulations. All Board meetings held in 2011 met the minimum attendance rate of 70%. Hyundai E&C Shareholders Status Board of Directors Composition ( As of the end of March 2012 ) ( As of march 2012 ) Hyundai Type Name Position Title Motor 20.9% Full time Jung Soo-Hyun Executive director CEO and President of Hyundai E&C Chung Mong-Koo Other director CEO and Chairman of Hyundai Motor, Chairman of KIA Motors Hyundai Mobis Kim Yong-Hwan Other director Vice-president of Hyundai Motor 8.7% Shin Hyun-Yoon Outside director Professor of Law, Yonsei University Part time KIA Motors Lee Seung-Jae Outside director Chairman of Tax Firm Samsong 5.2% Seo Chi-Ho Outside director Architecture engineering professor, Konkuk University Others Foreigners 46.3% 18.9% Park Sang-Ok Outside director Leading lawyer of Law Firm Do Yeon We Build Tomorrow 59 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Committees under the Board Hyundai E&C has established and operates the Audit Committee, the Outside Director Nominating Committee and the Social Contribution Committee, all under the Board’s supervision, for the purpose of strengthening the Board’s transparency, which improves efficiency in decision-making and promotes sustainability management activities. Audit Committee | The Audit Committee should consist of 3 or more outside directors in principle. The Audit Committee of Hyundai E&C currently has four outside directors. The Audit Committee’s key roles are to: 1) audit the lawfulness of directors and management’s job performance; 2) review the soundness and adequacy of the corporate financial activity; 3) review and control the company’s internal audit; and 4) review the accuracy of the financial reporting. The Audit Committee can request the convocation of an extraordinary general meeting by submitting a written request stating the purpose of the meeting and a reason for the convocation of the meeting to the Board in addition to the regularly-scheduled meeting. Also, when deemed necessary for performing of its duties, the Audit Committee can request a subsidiary of Hyundai E&C to report sales, and in this case where the subsidiary does not report its sales immediately or when the contents of the report need to be verified, the Audit Committee can investigate the affiliate business and its financial condition. Outside Director Nominating Committee | The Outside Director Nominating Committee consists of 1 chairman and 4 members. With the Outside Director Nominating Committee of Hyundai E&C containing 1 inside director and 4 outside directors, Hyundai E&C has met the requirement that the majority of committee members should be outside directors. The Outside Director Nominating Committee recommends that outside director candidates be appointed at the general meeting of shareholders. In the process of recommending outside director candidates, the Outside Director Nominating Committee checks the background of director appointees, nominators and their most recent transaction with the company in the last 3 years. Hyundai E&C displayed transparency and objectivity in the choosing of candidates by allowing the committee to ask for advice from outside experts while considering recommendations of the outside director candidates at the general meeting of shareholders. Social Contribution Committee | The Social Contribution Committee consists of 1 chairman and 4 members, with its key role being to determine the vision for sustainability and strategic tasks, review of an annual social Contribution activity plan, and evaluate activity performances. Hyundai E&C’s sustainability management ensures that the company has a well-organized approach and offers practical & efficient responses to all sustainability management issues through the establishment and operation of the Social Contribution Committee. Board Evaluation and Remuneration Hyundai E&C’s Board is subject to a self-performance evaluation and a third-party performance evaluation, with the performance evaluation results delivered to shareholders. Also, the director’s remuneration is to be paid at a rate not greater than the limit of director’s remuneration that was approved by the general meeting of shareholders. Hyundai E&C has disclosed the Board of Directors’ total remuneration in accordance with Korean laws. Hyundai E&C has disclosed directors’ remuneration in detail by classifying it into inside directors, registered directors, who belong to non-standing directors, and outside directors as of the classification standards for directors of the Korean Commercial Act. The disclosed details in the business report are posted in the DART System of the Financial Supervisory Service. Status of Committees under the Board Committee Formation Roles Audit Committee Chairman Shin Hyun-Yoon and 3 outside directors Accounting and task audit Outside Director Nominating Committee Chairman Jung Soo-Hyun and 4 outside directors Outside director candidate nominations Sustainable vision and strategic task selection, Social Contribution Committee Chairman Jung Soo-Hyun and 4 outside directors Yearly social Contribution activity plan review and performance evaluation 60 Establishment of the HDEC Green CSR Declaration Hyundai E&C declares the HDEC Green CSR Declaration and collects pledges from its employees who shall pertain to Ethical Management Charter and Ethical Codes. Also, Hyundai E&C has an independent communication channel and established a standard of actions against any infringement case to facilitate a thorough internal control. Compliance with the HDEC Green CSR Declaration | Hyundai E&C has clearly presented the standards for compliance of moral management by classifying them into three areas in the HDEC Green CSR Declaration : 1) Responsibility for continuous business; 2) Responsibility for the environment; and 3) Responsibility for stakeholders. Also, Hyundai E&C has strived to become an enterprise respected by stakeholders through moral management, which shall be done by revising the relevant provisions of the HDEC Green CSR Declaration and improving its level each year by taking into account the quickly-changing industry trends, stakeholders’ diverse needs and environmental problems around the globe. │Employee’s HDEC Green CSR Declaration Extension of the HDEC Green CSR Declaration Application Range | The HDEC Green CSR Declaration of Hyundai E&C applies to all employees including its domestic and overseas offices. It is a policy that shall bind not just Hyundai E&C’s suppliers and companies in the Group, but also investors and Partners to whom Hyundai E&C has invested either directly or indirectly to follow all regulations with equal responsibilities. When Hyundai E&C promotes a business jointly with an external agency or another company, Hyundai E&C strongly recommends their compliance with all provisions of the Moral Management Chart. In case any socially-sensitive issue arises, Hyundai E&C requires them to comply with the relevant provisions. Intensification of Preventive Measures to Moral Management Infringement | Hyundai E&C has enabled employees to report any non-compliance with HDEC Green CSR Declaration through diverse channels. Hyundai E&C enables a person to report the infringement by using a phone call and a letter and also provides a way to report the infringement through the cyber audit team, allowing the person to know whether the issue is being handled promptly. Hyundai E&C plans to prevent moral management infringement by managing the cyber audit team through a separate website. CASE STUDY_ Hyundai E&C plans to build an “exclusive website for the cyber audit team” by separating and expanding the cyber audit Cyber Audit Team’s Website page in the Hyundai E&C website in 2012. Currently, the content of the cyber audit website is planned to have the following tabs: 1) Ethics management; 2) Ethics regulation; 3) Cyber audit team; and 4) Transparent management plaza. Hyundai E&C maintains the reporting and handling of any infringement cases of the HDEC Green CSR. Declaration, which is the present cyber audit team’s responsibility, and has settled the concept of moral management and shared the ethics regulation. In other words, Hyundai E&C plans to ensure the integrated management of the moral management. Also, Hyundai E&C will try to raise awareness of the moral management internally by sending moral management news to all employees and sharing real audit cases and customer’s comments. Cyber Audit Team’s Website Planning Transparent Moral Management Ethics Regulation Cyber Audit Team Management Plaza Definition of Moral Code of Ethics Instructions and Moral management news Management Code of Ethics whistle-blower Audit case, Customer’s Necessity of Moral Implementation protection voices Management Code of Conduct Reporting Survey Moral Management Procurement division’s Handling result check cyber education practical code Progress status We Build Tomorrow 61 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Efforts for the Internalization of the Moral Management Concept Hyundai E&C has raised employees' moral consciousness by providing regular moral management education to practice the Code of Behavior as stated in the HDEC Green CSR Declaration and to internalize the concept of moral management. Intensification of Moral Management Education | Hyundai E&C has reinforced online and offline moral education to raise employee’s moral consciousness and to make a moral management-based corporate culture voluntarily and initiatively. In April 2011, Hyundai E&C provided moral management education as offline education to 5,311 employees from Hyundai E&C and companies in the Group, with the topic “Practice of Trust Management through Business Ethics”. A total of 8,209 people participated in the moral management and anti-corruption education provided in 2011, and educational opportunities will increase each year. In online education, 4,863 people completed some 5.5 hours of education with the topic “21st Century’s Global │Moral Management Training for Headquarter Employees Competitiveness Integrity Management” from October 2011 to January 2012. Also, Hyundai E&C provided cyber education for the prevention of sexual harassment in December 2011. Hyundai E&C has not only expanded its moral management-relevant education hours and number of trainees but also provided a diversity of education. For the sexual harassment prevention education, a group of 6,450 participated. Compliance Program Hyundai E&C has done its best to build up and maintain a fair and transparent relationship with stakeholders, and has operated its Compliance Program (CP) to maintain the fair trade order. In particular, since being transferred to Hyundai Motor Group, Hyundai E&C has stressed the importance of fair trade more than ever and has strived to settle fair and transparent transactions with stakeholders. Meaning and Purpose of the Program | The Compliance Program (CP) is an internal compliance system which Hyundai E&C itself established and operates. CP presents clear behavior standards for compliance with the Fair Trade Act and prevents employees from violating the Fair Trade Act borne out of unawareness. CP classifies suppliers, competitors and affiliates as key stakeholders and presents clear standards to establish fair and transparent transactions with stakeholders. 7 Core elements of CP Efforts for Consciousness-Raising about Fair Trade | Hyundai E&C has chosen and performed the core 7 elements of CP necessary to comply with the Fair Trade Act and to make employees raise their consciousness President’s will about fair trade. Above all, our president expressed his desire for the compliance with the Fair Trade Act through Appointment by autonomyHyundai E&C Groupware and alerted employees to the compliance by receiving oaths from all employees for abiding manager the compliance. Hyundai E&C has established an operating system by establishing the Compliance Committee Creating and revising and by appointing the Compliance Officer, being able to extend employees’ understanding of the compliance by autonomy-abiding handbook publishing the Compliance Manual and distributing it to relevant teams. Educational system Self Monitoring and Control | Hyundai E&C has enacted regulations to monitor and restrict compliance Proctoring and inspection system for its actual effect on the CP. The Compliance Officer is obliged to monitor all activities for compliance with Free-ruling against infringement fair trade-relevant regulations and laws no later than one month after the end of each half-year and to report Establishing document and discuss the results with the president and the Board to establish and execute any improvement measures. organizing system In case an employee is suspected of violation of the fair trade-relevant laws or regulations, the Compliance Officer investigates it immediately. When any violation is discovered, the Compliance Officer can give the necessary punishments such as isolation from the job position, a warning, job change, suspension of job, salary reduction and dismissal depending upon the case after fully discussing the situation with the president and relevant department manager. Also, in order to prevent such a problem beforehand, Hyundai E&C has provided Compliance-relevant education by inviting experts from the Fair Trade Commission and plans to reinforce Compliance continuously. 62 Financial Stability Hyundai E&C has managed its business aggressively to expand new business areas such as overseas markets and new market entry and to gain business profitability. Hyundai E&C has made a more stable business base by maintaining healthy financial conditions with seamless efforts in regards to financial structure improvement. The current ratio which shows that the organization’s stability, debt-equity ratio and capital adequacy ratio of Hyundai E&C have been turning around for the last three years. Hyundai E&C has gained a firm and stable profit structure and continues to realize profits and reduced borrowings as a visible outcome. Excellent Credit Rating Hyundai E&C was rated AAby Korea’s three credit rating agencies NICE, Korea Ratings, and KIS in 2011. Since the credit rating was upgraded to AAfrom A+ last 2009, Hyundai E&C has maintained a solid credit rating. The 2011 Credit Rating AA high evaluations are a result of Hyundai E&C construction’s performance and technology, stable business base and its quick response to changing business by changing its business portfolio. Change in Current Ratio and ( Unit : % ) Change in capital adequacy ratio ( Unit : % ) Debt Ratio Debt-Equity Ratio Current Ratio 40.4 167.4 39.6 152.4 37.4 147.4 134.5 148.0 116.2 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition of Risk and Risk Responses Country Hyundai E&C has classified and managed risks into: 1) Country Risk; 2) Enterprise and Market Risk; and 3) Risk Project Risk. Definition of Risk Country Risk | Country Risk is defined as the risks caused by domestic and foreign environmental changes. Because this Country Risk includes political risk, social & cultural risk, climate change and relevant environmental Enterprise and Project risk, the latest concerned risks have been managed enterprise-wide. Market Risk Risk Enterprise and Market Risk | Enterprise and Market Risk is defined as the risks to be generally managed by the enterprise, such as market risk, business risk and financial risk. Hyundai E&C has regarded stable overseas capital management as important as overseas projects continue to increase. In order to response to such a situation and to manage a currency effectively, the currency can be checked in real-time through the Intranet. Project Risk | In terms of project risks, Hyundai E&C has analyzed and managed construction industry-linked risks synthetically. Hyundai E&C has analyzed and managed business risks such as economic depression & overheating and material procurement by regularly analyzing construction market situations. Also, Hyundai E&C recognizes demands forecast, clients' capability of performing construction and investors' financial conditions as risks for all projects and has analyzed and managed those risks. In particular, Hyundai E&C has posted major dispute risk cases and solutions and has made employees ask internal experts for risks that may arise through operating “Hyundai E&C Dispute Management System” to professionally respond to any legal risks that arise during a project. We Build Tomorrow 63 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Risk Reporting System Hyundai E&C classifies risks by quantifying them through analyzing the seriousness, possibility and impact of the risks. Since the risk reporting system is classified according to different phases, Hyundai E&C has the system to report and manage the risks quickly and effectively. Low Level Risk | Risks classified as low level risk are reported up to the CRO. Middle Level Risk | Risks classified as middle level risks are directly reported to the CEO by the CRO. Also, in case it is deemed that the urgency and impact of the risk considerably affects the operation of a project, this risk is reported to the CEO and the Board at the same time in order for them to make a quick decision. High Level Risk | Risks classified as high level risks are reported to the Board by the CRO, and starts identifying and investigating risk-relevant personnel affairs and handles these risks quickly by establishing risk-reducing measures and a regular monitoring system and takes measures against the emergency. Risk Reporting Diagram CEO Board CRO Low Level Risk Middle Level Risk High Level Risk Risk Analysis Process Hyundai E&C analyzes and manages risks in three phases: 1) Definition; 2) Analysis; and 3) Response and Application. Definition | Risks are classified into three types: Country Risk; Enterprise and Market Risk; and Project Risk, according to risk classification standards. 15 risk factors are derived and managed according to these types. Analysis | Risks are analyzed through quantitative and qualitative analyses on each risk’s effectiveness and influence and then analyzed by response measures and handling priority. Response and Application | High priority risks are quickly reported in accordance with the reporting system, and management measures are initiated and applied to them by establishing them in terms of risk characteristics. INTERVIEW_ Steven Smith, HSE Manager, UAE GASCO Sustainability management that considers not only the economic, but also the environmental and social perspectives, is (Abu Dhabi Gas Industries Ltd.) not a choice but a necessity around the world. In that respect, I give a high assessment to Hyundai E&C's sustainability management activities that lead other companies, including not only its pursuit of economic benefit, but also environmental management at construction sites and ensuring employees’ health and safety. Hyundai E&C conducted a comprehensive feasibility study from the pre-construction phase in order to minimize its environmental impact, and conducted long-term safety education and comprehensive safety inspections in order to prevent accidents at construction sites, which I found to be impressive. Even in the future, I expect Hyundai Engineering & Construction to be a company that has a positive impact on its stakeholders through its advanced sustainability management activities and can grow together with them. 64 Public Benefit Hyundai E&C has maintained a symbiotic relationship with stakeholders by fairly distributing economic values created from its business activities to stakeholders. Hyundai E&C has also contributed to public benefits by creating new jobs and attracting production through diverse infrastructure investment. Distribution of Created Economic Value to Stakeholders Hyundai E&C has actualized a win-win value by distributing economic values created from business activity to stakeholders, shareholders, suppliers, employees, government and local communities. Suppliers | Hyundai E&C has procured products and services from suppliers and strived to reinforce fairness and transparency in its relationship with suppliers. In 2011, Hyundai E&C procured a total of 7, 372.9 billion won in products and services from suppliers. Investors | Hyundai E&C has tried to maximize investor values continuously and returned the company’s benefits through dividends and interest payments. Shareholders’ dividends for 2011 amounted to a total of 55.7 billion won and interest paid amounted to a total of 40.1 billion won. Employees | Hyundai E&C has distributed its economic values to employees through salaries, retirement allowances, employee benefits, etc., and concentrated on forming a proper environment to improve employee’s satisfaction. In 2011, a total amount of 669.4 billion won was paid to its employees. Government | Hyundai E&C distributes its economic values through tax payments such as income taxes, value added taxes, real estate taxes and corporate taxes. Hyundai E&C has supported government activities through various types of tax to be imposed. Hyundai E&C takes its obligations and responsibilities as a member of society seriously. In 2011, Hyundai E&C paid a total of 173.8 billion won in taxes. Local Community | Hyundai E&C distributes its economic values to the local communities through direct donations, infrastructure investments and volunteer activities based on three social Contribution activities; “Love Sharing”, “Hope Sharing” and “Culture Sharing”. In 2011, economic values distributed to local communities amounted to a total of 6.8 billion won. Diagram of Economic Value Distribution Economic Value Distribution KRW 8,318.7Bil. Suppliers Investors Employees Government Local Community KRW 7,372.9 Bil. KRW 95.8 Bil. KRW 669.4 Bil. KRW 173.8 Bil. KRW 6.8 Bil. We Build Tomorrow 65 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Infrastructure Investment Hyundai E&C has carried out its responsibility as a leading construction enterprise by focusing on infrastructure expansion and reinforcement of local society public interests as well as by engaging in economic activity and creating profits. Infrastructure Investment Status | Hyundai E&C has stimulated local communities and has provided a foundation for national economic development by continuing to supply the infrastructure that has become a base for the local community development like building public facilities and expressways. In 2011, infrastructure investment by a division of Hyundai E&C contributed to the Sosa-Wonsi double lane subway construction and the Cheongri office supply facility construction project. Accordingly, Hyundai E&C has not only stimulated a local community supplying the infrastructure but also contributed to job creation after the projects’ completion. Disaster Zone and Neglected People Help | Hyundai E&C has vigorously participated in recovering disaster zones and helping the neglected through its infrastructure investment programs and volunteers. In 2011, Hyundai E&C advocated for a local community infrastructure buildup and maintenance improvements in many dwelling areas and environment improvement for the elderly of single family, repair of rehabilitation centers for the disabled, dwelling environment maintenance in flooded areas and broken road-areas recovery activities. Also, Hyundai E&C installed a community center and education & welfare center in the Philippines and Kazakhstan, respectively, by expanding the concept of a local community overseas. Through these opportunities, Hyundai E&C is able to expand its range of support to other destitute foreign areas. Hyundai E&C plans to increase its support in disaster-swept regions and assist neglected people through infrastructure supply and repair programs based on the construction industry. │Construction site for the Philippines Love Community Center INTERVIEW_ Hyung-goo Ahn, Good neighbors(NGO), The San Isidro region in the Philippines, where Hyundai Engineering & Construction is building a community center, is an Head of Philippine Office area of new immigrants and currently lacks various facilities for local residents. With the construction of the community center in San Isidro, Hyundai Engineering & Construction is trying to assume active communication with the local community and residents and I give my heartfelt thanks for the company’s advanced social contribution activities. The community center will give practical help to local residents, including the provision of solid educational programs to support preschool children and free medical services, and its plan is to operate in a way that improves the overall quality of life. On the basis of the construction of the San Isidro community center, we expect more active communication between Hyundai Engineering & Construction and social contribution activities in the future as well. CASE STUDY_ Geogeum Bridge Hyundai E&C has contributed to national economic development here by creating indirect economic values. Hyundai E&C has created many jobs and led production through a continuous infrastructure construction and supply since its establishment. In December 2011, Hyundai E&C completed the Geogeum Bridge, which connects Geogeumdo and Sorokdo (islet) to Goheung-gun Jeonnam. Geogeum Bridge is the landmark of the Goheung district. Geogeum Bridge was designed in a way that its upper part can be utilized as a vehicle road and a lower part utilized as a bicycle and pedestrian road. It is the first sea-crossing bridge in the district, which made the Geogeum Bridge popular among its users. │Geogeum Bridge 66 Economic Feasibility The year 2011 was a very successful year for Hyundai E&C, as Hyundai E&C achieved external growth and strengthened its internal stability through a “Selection and Concentration” strategy. Aiming further than being known as the first construction company in Korea, Hyundai E&C has developed into “a global top-tier construction company” which explores and leads new markets. Changes in Net income 10 Trillion won of sales attained for 2 consecutive years ( Unit : Million Won ) As the world economy became uncertain and the economic volatility increased, owing largely to the financial crisis in Europe in 2011, Hyundai E&C had many difficulties with its overseas sectors even as it has constantly 503,313 strengthened its investment. Due to the uneasy political situation in Libya, contracting for new construction 15.9% projects was delayed and nuclear power plant projects were decreasing as a result of the Fukushima accident, increase to the prior year which was caused by an earthquake in Japan. Also, projects in the Middle East were reduced due to the Arab 434,186 Spring democracy movement. Consequently, many events slowed down the world economy and mitigated construction demands in 2011. Therefore, Hyundai E&C recorded overseas construction contracts amounting to 4.7 2010 2011 billion dollars in 2011 with clients’ trusts accumulated by the company’s project-contracting ability and many onsite experiences. These are based on its strong business foundation, often not yielding to the difficult external environment. Additionally in 2011, Hyundai E&C reached 10,104.6 billion won of sales, and its risk management capability countering a change of external environments was verified. In particular, Hyundai E&C recorded more than 10 trillion won worth of sales for 2 consecutive years and continued its constant growth. Accordingly, 2011 was very meaningful for Hyundai E&C. Hyundai E&C recorded a 503.3 billion won of Net income and improved its profitability, increasing 15.9%. Ranked No.1 for the construction capability evaluation for 4 consecutive years Hyundai E&C was ranked top out of 10,540 construction companies in the construction industry according to the construction capability evaluations by the Construction Association of Korea for 4 consecutive years. The construction capability evaluation synthetically evaluates four sectors of each construction company, construcConstruction capability evaluation tion performance, financial position, technological capability and credibility. Hyundai E&C was ranked No. 1 for 4 1 Ranked No.1 for 4 years in the overall evaluation and received the highest praise for capability as well as actual business manageconsecutive years st ment capability. Hyundai E&C has set its place as the leading construction enterprise in Korea. Establishment of a collaboration system with the companies in the Group Hyundai E&C has not only maintained and developed its existing businesses, but also strives to gain new competitiveness by securing new revenue sources. Hyundai E&C has been able to gain a more stable management foundation After becoming a part of Hyundai Motor Group in 2011. In addition, Hyundai E&C has been working hard to gain new project contracts, consolidating its collaboration system with the companies in the Group. Intention of Entry into Developing Country Markets As the leading construction enterprise in the Korean construction industry, Hyundai E&C has actively expanded its business area to overseas markets as well as domestic markets. Hyundai E&C is aggressively seeking entry into new markets in Africa, Middle & South America and CIS (The Commonwealth of Independent States )to obtain a new growth engine in addition to the stable business operation already in place in Asia and the Middle East. Throughout the year 2011~2012, Hyundai E&C has established a South Africa office and reinforced its Entry to Developing branch capabilities in Tripoli, Algeria, Bogota and Almaty. Also, Hyundai E&C diversified its route of information Country Markets acquiring by utilizing the Group’s global network. Active Entry into the Africa Region | Hyundai E&C has increased its opportunities to enter the African construction market by contracting with the Azito Plant Expansion Project in Africa. The contracting amount for this We Build Tomorrow 67 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix project was about 250 million dollars. Hyundai E&C took charge of the construction project which will extend the current gas turbine plant placed in the southwestern part of Abidjan, the center of administration and economy of Cote d'Ivoire, into a combined cycle power plant. Recognition of Hyundai E&C by domestic and overseas construction companies is a meaningful step for further expansion into other markets, establishing a bridgehead for the entry into construction markets in sub-Saharan Africa. Hyundai E&C plans to take advantage of its new position here to solidify potential contracts for similar projects in Cote d'Ivoire and other African countries. Establishment of the Venezuela Branch and Successful Project Contracting | With respect to the entry into Middle and South America markets, Hyundai E&C established a new Columbia branch in 2010 and opened its Venezuela branch in March 2012. Venezuela is another market where domestic and foreign competitors are not actively seeking their entries. Consequently, Hyundai E&C has dominated the Venezuela market and obtained a quality opportunity for obtaining other construction there. With the establishment of the Venezuela branch in 2012, Hyundai E&C contracted for the construction of the Puerto La Cruz oil refinery plant expansion and facility enhancement construction that were ordered by PDVSA of Venezuela, amounting to 2,995 million dollars (about KRW 3,505.7 billion), in a form of consortium with Hyundai Engineering and China’s Wison Engineering. Hyundai E&C plans to use this project into the Central and South American markets. Intention of Entry into Eco-Friendly market Hyundai E&C puts a great importance on its future growth with its intensified efforts to enter into the eco-friendly marketplace. Hyundai E&C has already entered the Green Smart Building marketplace through Hill State, an apartment complex that applies high-end technology in relation to the Eco-Friendly market. This inroad has led to further entry of Hyundai E&C into the water treatment market, the environmental plant market and the offshore wind power market. Hyundai E&C analyzed its potential marketability and probability of entrance into the eco market through organization of an exclusive Task Force Team to quickly prepare for its entry into the eco-friendly market business operation. CASE STUDY_ After establishing its Columbia branch office in 2010, Hyundai E&C successfully contracted projects in the regions of South Columbia BELLO Sewage Treatment Plant and Central America by aggressively developing the new market there. In 2012, Hyundai E&C successfully contracted for the Bello Sewage Treatment Plant project with 350 million dollars through combined contributions by Hyundai Engineering and Acciona Agua, Spain. The Columbia Bello Sewage Treatment Plant signifies Hyundai E&C’s entry into a new business field, entry into a new market, and introduction of its new business model. Above all, Hyundai E&C has gained an advantageous position in the market and offers us opportunities to show dominance in the water environment market which spotlights profitability among the eco markets. Also, since Hyundai E&C’s construction project in Central and South America only included the Porto Velho Combined Cycle Power Plant, Hyundai E&C has now succeeded in its goal of re-entering the region of Central and South America through the contract for this project. Hyundai E&C plans to improve the project’s profitability by using its new profit business model of project management form in the existing construction-centric project operation. Based on this experience, Hyundai E&C plans to accelerate its entry into other eco markets and new regions. Meaning of the Columbia BELLO Sewage Treatment Plant NEW FIELD NEW MARKET NEW MODEL World water market and new & Bridgehead for entry into the Central and Project management high profit busirenewable energy business South American construction markets ness model from the construction │Bird's-eye view of Columbia sewage │Aeration tanks │Central control center │Sludge digestion tanks Treatment Plant Appendix 70 Major Performance for 2011 72 Organizational Chart · Financial Data 73 Environmental Data 74 Social Data · Membership & Awards 75 DJSI World Super Sector Leader & CRRA 76 Third Party Verification Statement 77 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 78 GRI Index 82 GRI Check Statement 70 Major Performance for 2011 Classification Growth and Management Eco-Friendly Performance of Profit Creation Stability Technology Development Eco-Friendly Business Improvement of business Continuous overseas advance transparency and fairness through Eco technology development Collaboration with the companies the internalization of employee and through collaboration with Greening of all construction in the Group for the new growth Approach suppliers ethics consciousness companies in the Group processes construction engine Response to highly-changing external Increase in research people and Eco supply chain buildup Entry into developing country environments through advanced risk facility investment markets, Entry into the Eco-Friendly management techniques market Effective response to domestic and Increase of corporate value and Increase of external trust through Eco technology development foreign environmental regulations maximization of investor value Impacts on Intensification of risk management fairness and transparency Eco new growth engine business Leadership in climate change, Hyundai E&C capability through change of profit Minimization of impacts caused by development Improvement of image as an external problems through Profit creation through new Eco-friendly construction company sources, Effect of preoccupation in systematic risk management market entry Suppliers' sustainable growth new markets through the “Green System” Consistently high return-on-investment rate Preventing accidents caused by the strengthened ethical campaign Minimization of environmental Stakeholders' Borrowing upon opinions made by associates of the Committee Energy saving at the user phase impacts in all processes of Expectations Overcoming outside unfavorable factors with risk management New eco business’s entry construction activity Transparently distributing and re-investing of the newly-created Green management and technology economical values Intensification of response to climate change risk Sales : KRW11.5 Tril. Expansion of Green business System enhancement stabilization Facilitation of social 2011 Goals Contracting Amount : KRW20.4 Tril. Increasing investment in eco Detailed environmental index contribution committee Multi-change of overseas market technology R&D management and improvement Communication-typed ethics management education More than KRW 10 trillion in sales CTS(Carbon Trust Standard) for 2 consecutive years Certification 2011 Increasing people’s participation in 78% research facility investment No. 1 for the construction capability Green Management System Activity and the ethic management education costs increased evaluation for 4 consecutive years Certification Performance and strong education contents Joint R&D and commercialization Successful entry into Africa and Energy Management System South & ethics (ISO 50001) Certification Evaluation Eco new business creation Market pre-capture by continuous Research organization segmentation Green management performance entry into the developing country’s and expansion of research investment Systematic and integrated management system development market Enterprise-wide technology Future Goals anti-corruption management by International standard certification Intensification of collaboration management system buildup cyber audit website buildup Intensification of environmental system with the companies in the Diversification of research index management standards Group collaboration companies and joint research items Goal not attained In progress Goal attained We Build Tomorrow 71 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Employee Capability Win-Win Industrial Safety Strategic Social Development Cooperation and Responsibility Contribution Intensification of safe management Global leader cultivation and experts through creation of an HSE Team in the Intensification of the top 3 social Win-win with the local community training through professional capability division, improving the current system contribution activities through the through shared growth with suppliers development program and introducing the new system social contribution organization Arrangement of base for the shared Core value delivery through the Group’s Thorough role allotment for quality level Intensification of social contribution growth through suppliers support activity integrated education betterment and manpower activity overseas professionalism effort Improvement of external trust through Future competitiveness and global Contribution to the local society’s significant accident prevention competitiveness strengthening through Intensification of balance and stable and balanced development Safety management upgrade into a new global leader training communication with suppliers Maximization of social contribution competitiveness through effective system Employee satisfaction improvement and Quality betterment through increase activity effect through intensification introduction and execution motivation & productivity increase in suppliers' competitiveness of the construction industry-linked social Improvement of customer satisfaction Group integration synergy effect contribution activities through betterment of product quality Creation of equal business Reduction of accident rates through suppliers relationships Actual communication with local systematic safety management system Fair performance evaluation Settlement of fair and transparent communities through voluntary social and operation Diverse welfare system establishment trading culture contribution activities Quality level maintenance and Diverse communication channels Competitiveness increase through Intensive social contribution for improvement through new technology education and exchanges with disaster regions and neglected areas and new material utilization Hyundai E&C Establishment of a fair trade culture Intensification of safety management Global social contribution activity Increase of education for support Expansion of suppliers support PR and training planning after retirement Revision of the lowest price Customer satisfaction service links Construction industry-linked social competitive bidding through quality betterment contribution activity development Decreasing the accident rate Settlement of a performance-centric Transparent suppliers management Active operation of Permit To Work (PTW), Opening of an overseas community center corporate culture system buildup through the suppliers Safety Rule Violator Exit Policy based on the construction industry Common group capability Intensification management system Development and introduction of the field Improvement and intensification of the through integrated training Suppliers training, technology, problems prevention system social contribution activity mileage Expansion of systematic support fund expansion and system improvement Introduction of the framework quality system for employees assessment system Zero accidents through organic link Increase of social contribution activity Improvement of task transparency with the HSE Team and division support by labor union and division Expansion of education and program Suppliers management Thorough quality suppliers audit Intensification of social contribution for retired employee support and competitiveness strengthening New system of introduction for activity linked with companies in the Re-establishment of the procurement quality level improvement Group process 72 Organizational Chart · Financial Data Organizational Chart ( As of June 2012 ) Hyundai E&C Audit Division Civil & Environment Division Oversea Business Division Planning Division Research & Development Division Building Works Division Domestic Business Division Procurement Division Project Supporting Division Plant Division Finance & Accounting Division Power & Energy Division Management & Administration Division Tech. Projects HQ Sales HQ Assistance HQ (Condensed) Seperate Statements of Income ( Unit : KRW Million ) Description 2009 2010 2011 Sales 9,278,579 10,044,756 10,104,552 Cost of sales 8,553,721 8,994,302 9,242,199 Gross profit 724,859 1,050,453 862,353 Operating income 418,861 517,530 516,685 Income before income tax expense 587,487 589,648 611,573 Net income 456,633 434,186 503,313 Cost of sals ratio 92.2% 89.5% 91.5% Operating income ratio 4.5% 5.2% 5.1% Net income before income tax expense ratio 6.3% 5.9% 6.1% Net income ratio 4.9% 4.3% 5.0% * 2009 condensed income statement was based on K-GAAP, and 2010 condensed income statement was based on K-IFRS. (Condensed) Seperate Statements of Financial Position ( Unit : KRW Million ) Description 2009 2010 2011 Current assets 5,010,105 6,614,101 6,952,511 Non current assets 3,081,176 3,667,342 3,731,156 Total assets 8,091,281 10,281,443 10,683,667 Current liabilities 4,311,170 4,919,173 4,697,796 Non current liabilities 754,411 1,288,580 1,668,114 Total liabilities 5,065,581 6,207,753 6,365,910 Capital Stock 557,273 557,273 557,273 Other Contributed capital 828,181 828,181 828,181 Components of other capital 152,245 310,220 149,114 Retained earnings 1,488,001 2,378,016 2,783,189 Total equity 3,025,700 4,073,690 4,317,757 * 2009 condensed balance sheet was based on K-GAAP, and 2010 condensed balance sheet was based on K-IFRS. We Build Tomorrow 73 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Environmental Data To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix Material usage amount Water usage amount ( Unit : 10,000 ton ) Description Unit 2009 2010 2011 Description 2010 2011 Rebar Ton 328,787 398,853 299,726 Tap water 82.5 62.9 Steel Ton 4,831 Surface water 21.0 40.0 Remicon M³ 3,748,400 3,918,068 3,529,397 Underground water 46.9 26.0 Cement Ton 81,116 47,368 120,679 Rainwater 2.4 0.5 Sand M³ 410,974 1,168,223 750,056 Total 152.8 129.5 Aggregates M³ 402,540 1,726,864 1,118,235 Asphalt Ton 505,180 612,364 757,131 Concrete LO2 L 180,000 506,146 1,842,634 Coal in medium-size Kg 1,531,698 1,521,167 5,619,606 lumps Wood M³ 38,728 27,663 Energy usage amount ( Unit : TJ ) Description 2009 2010 2011 Diesel 281.68 449.15 270.92 Gasoline 36.44 26.27 25.65 Kerosene 55.83 39.87 41.12 Oil Total 373.96 515.29 337.69 LNG 29.05 64.01 36.39 LPG 8.30 11.35 5.25 Gas Total 37.35 75.36 41.64 Lump coal (Brown coal) 14.04 30.92 13.95 Hot water (District heating) 0.23 0.24 0.21 Electric power 744.02 851.78 903.43 Others Total 758.30 882.95 917.58 All Total 1,169.60 1,473.59 1,296.91 Waste Discharge and Recycled Volume Wastewater Discharge ( Unit : Ton ) * Material usage amount: Data collection through establishing and utilizing database from 2011 Description Unit 2009 2010 2011 Description 2009 2010 2011 * Water usage amount: Developing a domestic Wastes Wastewater 724,115 1,236,606 2,556,654 sites-oriented system and changing report Ton 1,447,754 460,022 580,077 discharged discharged domains to domestic ground at the time of establishing a system regarding water usage Recycled amount of 2012 (HPMS) Ton 91,882 10,513 35,023 volume * Energy usage amount: Changing the estimated Recycling rate % 6.3 2.3 6.0 energy usage amount standard (unit: won) to the integrated business headquarter of 2012 (changed from 6 to 4) * Recycling amount: Reporting on recycling amount regarding overall wastes (construction, designated, industrial wastes) since 2011 Greenhouse Gas Emissions ( Unit : tCO2-e ) * Greenhouse gas emission amount: Greenhouse gas emission amount changed due to the change Description 2009 2010 2011 in energy usage amount. Estimating the amount through the unit of Won and sales amount of Direct & indirect greenhouse gases 58,409 81,047 74,952 each industrial headquarter and scope based on Other indirect greenhouse gases 393,236 358,704 363,698 the certified data 74 Social Data · Membership & Awards Social Data Description Unit 2009 2010 2011 Total employees 4,738 4,707 5,184 Permanent employees Person 3,927 3,840 4,363 Contracted employees 811 867 821 Change of job rate % 5.47 4.50 5.36 Number of potential Person 2,206 2,157 2,425 subjects of labor union Infant care leave 2.09 2.63 4.89 Return to work rate 20.00 83.33 38.46 % Accidents rate 0.24 0.17 0.14 Labor union registration rate 17.5 28.0 22.60 List of Association Memberships Name of Association Name of Association International Tunnelling and Underground Space Association The Korea Railway Association Construction Association of Korea Korea Ports & Harbours Association Korea Electric Association International Contractors Association of Korea Building Smart Association Korea Construction IT Association Korea Plant Industries Association Korea BIM Association Korea Road and Traffic Association The Korean Housing Association Korea Remodeling Association Korea Institute of Plant Engineering & Construction Primary Awards and Prizes received Award Name Award Part Host/Provider BCA Construction Excellence Award Construction BCA (Building and Construction Authority) SHARP (Safety & Health Award Project Singapore Ministry of Manpower, Recognition for Project) Award WSH (Workplace Safety & Health) Council Designpreis Deutschland Product Design German Design Council iF Product Design Award Public Design International Forum Design IDEA (International Design Commercial & IDEA Excellence Awards) Industrial Products reddot Award Design Concept reddot Gmbh & Co. KG We Build Tomorrow 75 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value DJSI World Super Sector Leader To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value & CRRA Appendix Selected as DJSI World Super Sector Leader Hyundai E&C stays firm on its grip on diagnosing the strength of its sustainability at both domestic and overseas grounds by participating in the estimation of Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and also endeavors to improve its internal action plans. Following its footsteps of entering DJSI Korea in 2009 and being selected DJSI World Leader in 2010, Hyundai E&C has continued in proceeding with consistent improvement on regulations and sustainability actions. This has resulted in making the company a DJSI World Sector Leader through the 2011/12 DJSI test. A testing measure that evaluates a corporate sustainability which was first developed by Dow Jones Index of the U.S., SAM of Switzerland, DJSI together with the Korea Productivity Center (KPC) is a prototypical global evaluation tool that comprehensively evaluates a company’s values based on not just financial data but also accomplishments and real meanings under social and environmental roofs. 2009 2010 2011 DJSI World DJSI World DJSI Korea Sector Leader Super Sector Leader Awarded for CRRA Integrated Reporting In improving the company’s standing in terms of economy, environment and society, three criteria that determine scores on any company’s sustainability management, Hyundai E&C has been annually publishing its own sustainability report. Hyundai E&C has also reaffirmed its position as a major global construction company by winning CRRA(Corporate Register Reporting Awards) bestowed by England’s CR(Corporate Register) for 2 years in a row for the first time in Korea. An internationally-renowned award that exclusively evaluates on the ‘sustainability management reports’, selection of a winner of CRRA is determined by online-polling that involves some 37,000 around the globe. │2011 Named as the 2ND Runner-up for the CRRA │2012 Awarded the Intergrated reporting section Best First time reporting 76 Third Party Verification Statement Introduction Conclusions Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘DNV’) has been comIn DNV’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the Report missioned to carry out assurance engagement on Hyundai Engineering & Construction provides a reliable and fair representation of HDEC’ sustainability strategy, policy, Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘HDEC’) 2012 Sustainability Report (hereinafter practices and performance in 2011. Based on the work undertaken as part of this referred to as ‘the Report’). This engagement focused on the information provided in Assurance Engagement, DNV believes that the Report generally meets the principles, the Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. This Assurance content and quality requirements of GRI G3.1 and AA1000 AS (2008) for a Type 1 ModStatement is intended for the readers of the Report. HDEC is responsible for the colerate level of assurance. Further conclusions and observations on the adoption of lection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the Report. reporting principles and specific performance information are made below; Regarding the level of adherence to reporting principles, we conclude the following: DNV’s responsibility regarding this Assurance engagement is to the management of HDEC only, in accordance with terms of reference and scope of work agreed. DNV disAA1000 Principles | claims any liability or responsibility to a third-party for any decisions, whether investInclusivity : HDEC has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders regarding sustainment or otherwise, based upon this Assurance Statement. ability issues via survey and interview. Stakeholder engagement process and survey result are disclosed in detail in the Report. 6 Stakeholder groups which are GovernScope of Assurance ment/mass media/industry association, Employees, Customer, Business partners, This Assurance Engagement covered data from calendar year 2011. The scope of Local community and Shareholders/Investors are identified with the reason of being DNV’s Assurance Engagement, as agreed with HDEC included the verification of: selected and the communication processes for respective groups in the Report. HDEC needs to expand the engagement in overseas stakeholders and identify their expec•Sustainability policy, goals, initiatives, practices and performance for calendar tations which should be integrated into the sustainable management strategy as the year 2011, as described in the Report. These were verified at company level. number of international projects increases. •Health & Safety, Social and Environmental data management systems, and Responsiveness : Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations sought from the associated processes and tools for collecting, analysing, aggregating and reporting survey are considered in the preparation of the Report and in the formulation of HDEC’ quantitative and qualitative information provided in the Report. sustainability management approach. HDEC needs to establish more effective system •Processes for defining the boundaries, focus and content of the Report. responding to respective material issues with objectives and monitoring and measur•Review of the extent to which the principles and requirements of the Global Reporting ing of performance. Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting (GRI G3.1) and Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS) are reflected in the Report. Materiality : HDEC has continued to map out and prioritise sustainability issues most •The extent to which the principles of Materiality, Inclusivity and Responsiveness significant. The Report generally provides an account of performance on the issues are adopted, in line with the requirements of the AccountAbility 1000 Assurance that are most significant to HDEC’s activities and which are most relevant to its stakeStandard (2008) (AA1000 AS (2008) for a Type 1, Moderate level of assurance holders. The material issues were identified and prioritised based upon the stakeholdengagement. The reliability of the information within the Report was verified to ers’ opinion sought by survey. However, it is recommended to further consider safety a moderate level assurance. management and sustainability in supply chain which are one of the critical issues in construction industries. HDEC’s reporting boundaries include all operations in Korea over which HDEC’s management exercises significant control. (Financial data includes the performance from Additional principles | international operations as well.) Reliability: Data and information presented in the report are generally reliable. However, internal assessment of data management and data checks need to be impleLimitations mented. The Report is referred to GRI G3.1 and Constructioin and Real Estate Sector The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reportSupplement for preparation. Information in the Report is presented so as to allow comparision of year-on-year performance. ing practices of HDEC’ suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance EngageCompleteness : The scope and boundary of the Report cover the issues and activiment. Economic performances including financial data were cross-checked at headties that are of most significance to HDEC and relevance to its stakeholders. No mateoffice with internal documents and the audited financial statements. rial omissions were identified in data or information verified. More efforts to improve reporting on the performance from international business operations need to be made. Statement of Competence and Independence Neutrality: The information in the Report is generally presented in balanced manDNV provides sustainability risk management services through specialists worldwide. ner. However more proactive actions need to be taken against stakeholders’ negative This engagement was undertaken by a multi-disciplinary team of suitably qualified and views on its performance and disclosure of factual information needs to be provided. experienced sustainability professionals. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any information presented in the Report. DNV did not provide any services to HDEC Opportunities for Improvement during 2011-2012 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to HDEC’s management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are proVerification Methodology vided to encourage continual improvement. This Assurance Engagement was carried out in July 2012, and in accordance with the DNV Verification Protocol for Sustainability Reporting (V.4.1) and AA1000 AS (2008). •HDEC should establish midand long-term sustainability goals which are In reaching our conclusion, we have undertaken the following work; qualified to enhance future measurement and reporting of performance. •HDEC should apply sustainable management practices to international projects •Interviewed HDEC executives; and enhance the collection of performance data from international projects as •Visited HDEC Head office and 1 project site in Seoul, Republic of Korea; international business grows. •Examined relevant documents, data and other information requested by •We recommend HDEC expand its sustainability management to supply chain so that the performance in whole value chain is improved. DNV and made available by HDEC; •Reviewed the mechanisms implemented by HDEC to promote and oversee its sustainability-related policies as described in the Report; Seoul, Korea 30th July 2012 Seung Hyun Kwak •Reviewed a selection of internal communication and external media reports Lead Verifier relating to HDEC’ sustainability management approach, performance and In Kyoon Ahn adherence to its policies; Country Manager •Analysed sustainability data management systems, assessing specific data and Antonio Astone information reported in accordance with the requirements of AA1000 AS (2008). Assurance Engagement Reviewer •Verified against the content principles and quality principles of GRI G3.1 Global Responsible for Sustainability Services We Build Tomorrow 77 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value Greenhouse Gas Verification To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Statement Appendix Introduction | DNV Certification, Ltd. (“DNV”) was commissioned by HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (“HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction”) to verify the HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2011 (“the report”) based upon a limited level of assurance. HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis set out within the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol: 2004 and the principles set out in ISO 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. Scope of Assurance | The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions), Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2 emissions) and Other indirect emissions (Scope 3 emissions) : •Reporting period under verification : Calendar Year 2011 •Organizational boundary for reporting : HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. Organizational Boundaries Address / Remark Verification activity Headquarter (Address: Hyundai Bldg. 140-2, Kye-dong, Buildings Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea) and 1 building Desk Review, Site visit, Process & data verification Domestic construction sites 204 sites in Dept. of Plant, Power Plant, Civil, Building Verification Approach | The verification has been conducted by DNV from 15th May through 29th May 2012 and performed in accordance with the verification principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3:2006. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a limited verification opinion concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process: •We have reviewed and verified the HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction’s Greenhouse gas Management System •We have reviewed the GHG inventory Report dated on 15th May 2012. •We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data Conclusions | As a result of the work described above, in our opinion nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the GHG emissions data set out in HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction’s report are not fairly stated. The GHG Emissions of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction for the year 2011 were confirmed as below; Greenhouse Gas Emissions of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. from Yr 2011 ( Unit : tCO2-e ) Direct emissions Indirect emissions Other indirect emissions Organizational Boundary (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope3) Total emissions HYUNDAI Engineering & 25,630 43,590 332,735 401,955 Construction Co., Ltd. * In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2. ** Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3 29th May 2012 Tae-Ho Kim Lead Verifier In-Kyoon Ahn Country Manager DNV Certification, Ltd. * This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (29th May 2012). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd., is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. 78 GRI Index ●Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○Not Reported GRI Reporting Index Indicators ISO26000 Page Status Comments Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Message from CEO 6.2 2 ● 1.2 Description of opportunities and challenges 6.2 2 ● Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of organization 4 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 4 ● 2.3 Operational structure 6.2 72 ● 2.4 Location of organizational head office 4 ● 2.5 List of countries where major offices are located 4 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form of organization 58 ● 2.7 Markets served 4 ● 2.8 Scale of reporting organization 4 ● Significant changes during the reporting period, regarding a size, 2.9 structure or ownership 58 ● 2.10 Awards and prizes received during the reporting period 74 ● Reporting Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 83 ● 3.2 The most recent reporting date 83 ● 3.3 Reporting cycle 83 ● 3.4 Contact number for report-relevant inquiries 83 ● 3.5 Content reporting decision process 8 ● 3.6 Reporting boundary 83 ● 3.7 Restriction of reporting range and boundary 83 ● Reporting boundary which can make a significant impact on information 3.8 comparability 83 ● 3.9 Data measuring technique and calculation basis 83 ● 3.10 Readjustment of information provided in previous report 73 ● 3.11 Significant changes in the reporting range, boundary or measuring method 83 ● 3.12 GRI Content Index 78 ● 3.13 Policies and recent practices for third party verification 7.5.3 76 ● Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance of organization 58 ● 4.2 Concurrent offices of Board Chairman and CEO 58 ● 4.3 Formation of Board 58 ● Mechanism by which shareholders and employees can present their 4.4 opinions to the Board 59 ● Link between corporate performance and Director & top executives ● 4.5 remuneration 59 4.6 Board level process for avoiding inter-stakeholder conflict 58 ● Board professionalism decision-making process for leading 4.7 the economic, environmental and social sector strategies 58 ● 4.8 Management principles 6 ● Procedure of managing the economic, environmental and social 62 4.9 performance by the Board 59 ● Process for evaluation of the Board’s performance, particularly 4.10 its economic, environmental and social performance 59 ● 4.11 Method for achieving an approach or principle for early prevention 62 ● Outside economic, environmental social chart, principles, 4.12 initiatives to comply by enterprise 74 ● 4.13 Status of industrial, national and global organization joining 74 ● 4.14 List of stakeholders group participation 7 ● 4.15 Grounds for identifying and selecting stakeholders attending 7 ● 4.16 Approach for stakeholder’s participation 7-8 ● Major themes & interests raised by stakeholders participation and 4.17 responses to them 7 ● We Build Tomorrow 79 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix GRI Reporting Index Indicators ISO26000 Page Status Comments Economic Performance Index EC1 Creation and distribution of direct economic value 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 64 ● Risks and opportunities for climate change financial impact EC2 and business activity 6.5.5 11 ● EC3 Range of pension support 42 ◐ EC4 Government grants received Zero ● EC5 Ratio of new staff pay to local legal minimum pay of major workplace 6.4.4, 6.8 40 ● EC6 Major workplace local procurement policies, practices, and percentages 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 47 ◐ Major workplace local people recruitment procedures and local EC7 high-level manager ratio 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 41 ◐ Infrastructure investment for public interests and service support 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.5, EC8 activities and effects (including support form classification) 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 52, 65 ● Understanding and explanation of indirect economic ripple effect 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 6.7.8, 6.8, EC9 (including range of influence) 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 65 ◐ Environmental Performance Index EN1 Weight or volume-standard raw material consumption 73 ● EN2 Ratio of renewable material usage 17 ● 6.5, 6.5.4 EN3 Direct energy consumption of 1st energy source 73 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption of 1st energy source 73 ● Building energy consumption intensity 2011 Year: 10968.9 ( HeadCRE1 GRI Index ● quarter, [Kwh/person] ) EN5 Energy quantity saved by saving and efficiency improvement 24 ● Energy reduction volume by energy efficiency or EN6 energy-based product/service supply and business 34 ◐ EN7 Indirect energy saving projects and performance 6.5, 6.5.4 31 ● EN8 Total water intake by supply source 73 ● EN9 Water supply source to be largely impacted by water intake None ● EN10 Total quantity and ratio of renewed and recycled water 34, 73 ◐ CRE2 Building water use intensity ○ Location and size of land owned, leased and managed in protection zones, EN11 districts with high biological diversity values and surrounding districts 33 ● Impact on the biological diversity by activity, product and service in EN12 protection zones and districts with high biological diversity values 33 ◐ 6.5, 6.5.6 EN13 Protected or restored habitats 33 ● EN14 Biological diversity management strategy, present actions and future plans 33 ● Number and extinction and endangered species designated by country on EN15 the IUCN Red List, and inhabiting in areas which are affected by the project 33 ◐ EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 73 ● 6.5, 6.5.5 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas 73 ● Building greenhouse gas emission intensity 2011 Year: 2.15 (HeadquarCRE3 GRI Index ● ter, [tCo2e/person]) Greenhouse gas emission intensity for new construction and re-construction 2011 Year: 7.48(Domestic, CRE4 GRI Index ● tCO2e/One million won) EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction project and performance 6.5, 6.5.5 24 ● EN19 Ozone depleting substance emission ● N/AP EN20 NOx, SOx and other major air pollutant emission None ● 6.5, 6.5.3 EN21 Waste-water emission and water quality by end discharge location 33, 73 ◐ EN22 Wastes emission by form and treatment method 36 ● Status of polluted area, restored region, and potential pollution area in CRE5 construction sites 22 ◐ EN23 Significant hazard discharge cases and discharged volume ● Transport, incoming, outgoing & treated quantity of wastes 6.5, 6.5.3 EN24 specified in Basel Convention, Annex I, II, III, IV, and the ratio of ● N/AP wastesexported overseas Name, scale, protection state and biological diversity value of EN25 water area and relevant habitat impacted by the reporting None ● organization’s waste-water discharge 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 EN26 Product and service environmental impact mitigation activity and result 34 ● 80 GRI Index ●Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○Not Reported GRI Reporting Index Indicators ISO26000 Page Status Comments EN27 Percentage of recycling of sold product and relevant packing materials 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 ○ Total amount of fines and penalties imposed for violation of EN28 environment-relevant laws, and number of punishment cases 6.5 32 ● Significant environmental impact of product & material transport and EN29 employee movement 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 30 ◐ EN30 Total amount of environmental protection expenditure and investment 6.5 32 ● Labor Performance Index LA1 Personnel status by employment type, employment contract and region 41 ◐ 6.4, 6.4.3 LA2 Number and percentage of employee job change cases 42 ◐ Benefits only for full-time employees, not part-time or LA3 hourly-based employees 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 42 ● LA4 Percent of employees subject to application of collective bargaining 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.3.10 43 ● LA5 Minimum notice period for significant business changes 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 41 ◐ Percent of employees represented by the labor-management joint health LA6 and safety committee 43, 45 ● 6.4, 6.4.6 Number of injuries, occupational disease, loss days, absences, LA7 and task-relevant accidents 46 ◐ Formation of employees by workplace with the safety & health CRE6 management system-relevant certification 46 ● Serious disease-relevant education, training, consulting, prevention and LA8 risk management system for employees & their family and local residents 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.8 46 ◐ LA9 Health and safety matters subject to formal agreement with the labor union 6.4, 6.4.6 45-46 ● LA10 Annual average training hours per person by employment type 6.4, 6.4.7 41 ◐ Job training and life-long learning program for constant employment LA11 and retired employee help 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 41 ◐ Ratio of employees subject to the regular performance evaluation and LA12 career development review 6.4, 6.4.7 42 ● Formation status of the Board and employees LA13 (diversity index basis such as gender, age, minor class) 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 58 ◐ LA14 Ratio of base pay between male and female employees 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 40 ● LA15 Job return rate and retention rate after maternity leave (by gender) 42 ● Human Rights Performance Index Number and ratio of major investment agreements which includes HR1 human right protection-relevant provisions or which are passed 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 ○ through human right examination HR2 Major partner and contractor human right examination rate 60 ◐ 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, Employee man hour training for task-relevant human right policy 6.6.6 HR3 and procedures 61 ● HR4 Total number of discrimination cases and relevant actions taken 6.3, 6.3.5 None ● Business sectors most likely to infringe on the freedom of collective HR5 bargaining, and actions taken for assuring those rights 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.4 43 ◐ HR6 Prohibition of child labor 41 ● 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10 HR7 Prohibition of forced labor 41 ● Ratio of security personnel who completed task-relevant human rights HR8 policy and procedures education 6.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 ○ HR9 Number of local residents’ right infringement cases and relevant actions taken 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, 6.6.7 Zero ● N/AP Percent and number of workplaces which performed a human right ○ HR10 supervision and impact assessment Number of human rights-relevant claims to be sued, responded and HR11 settled through official claim delivery mechanism Zero ● N/AP Social Performance Index Characteristics, range and actual efficiency of the program which SO1 evaluates and manage the impacts on the local community 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.6.7 52 ◐ at the start, operation and end phase of the task activity SO2 Number and ratio of divisions where corruption hazard is detected 100% ● Ratio of employees who received education for anti-corruption SO3 policies and procedures 6.6, 6.6.3 61 ● SO4 Actions against the corruption case Zero ● N/AP Position for public policy, public policy making, SO5 and lobbying activity participation 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 ○ N/AP We Build Tomorrow 81 2012 Carbon Management To Build Green Value To Build Social Value To Build Economic Value Appendix GRI Reporting Index Indicators ISO26000 Page Status Comments Total cash/spot donations to political parties, politicians and relevant SO6 authorities 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 Zero ● Number of legal actions and resulting in unfair competition behavior and SO7 monopoly behavior 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 Zero ● History of penalties and fines imposed for violation of laws and regulaSO8 tions, and number of punishments 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 Zero ● Workplaces which have made a negative impact on the local community SO9 (potentially or actually) 52 ◐ CRE7 Actions to local residents’ movement by project development ○ Prevention and mitigation measures to be provided by workplaces to SO10 those who create potential or actual negative impact on the local com33, 52 ◐ munity Product Liability Performance Index Phase in the life cycle of evaluation of products & services, health PR1 and safety impacts for improvement, ratio of evaluation for major 46 ◐ products and services 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 Customer’s health and safety impact-relevant regulations and PR2 voluntary rules that violate cases on the product and service life cycle Zero ● N/AP Product and service information-type required for the procedure, percentPR3 age of major product/service which meets the information requirement 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 ○ N/AP Construction, operation, reconstruction, new construction-relevant CRE8 sustainability-relevant certification, labeling acquirement status 21, 35 ● Product/service information and labeling-relevant regulation and PR4 voluntary rules that violate cases (by result type) 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Zero ● N/AP Customer satisfaction-relevant activity such as customer satisfaction PR5 evaluation survey results 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 50-51 ● Marketing communication (advertising, sales promotion, PR6 sponsorship, etc.)-relevant regulations, standards and voluntary 51 ● rules compliance program 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Marketing communication (advertising, sales promotion, sponsorship, PR7 etc.)-relevant regulations, standards and voluntary rules violating cases Zero ● PR8 Customer privacy violation and customer data loss-relevant complaint cases 6.7, 6.7.7 None ● Amount of penalty imposed as the result of a violation of product and PR9 service supply laws and regulation 6.7, 6.7.6 None ● N/AP GRI G3.1 Guideline Application Level 2011 Hyundai E&C Sustainability Management Report was written satisfying requirements of A+ Level among GRI G3.1 Guideline Application Levels. GRI confirmed that this Report is suitable for A+ Level among GRI G3.1 Guideline Application Levels. C C+ B B+ A A+ G3.1 Disclosure Item All items of C Level and Profile disclosure Result 1.1, 2.1-2.10, 3.1-3.8, 3.10Same as requirements of B Level Outside verification of Report Outside verification of Report Outside verification of Report 1.2, 3.9, 3.13, 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 3.12, 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 Standard Disclosure G3.1 Management Disclosure on Management Disclosure on Management approach Result None Approach (DMA) of each index Approach (DMA) of each index disclosure At least 10 performance indexes At least 20 performance indexes should When all G3.1 key performance index and G3.1 industry guide index is reported or is not Performance index should be reported (including at be reported (including at least 1 economic, and additional Result reported according to the materiality least 1 economic, environmental environmental, labor, human right, social, principles, the reason for reporting or not index by industry and social index respectively) and product liability index respectively) reporting should be explained GRI Check Statement Reporting Principles Hyundai E&C Sustainability Report 2012, which is the third publication of its kind, is prepared in reference to the GRI3.1 Guidelines and the CRE index specialized for the construction sector. In addition, it reflects the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and the major agenda of the ISO26000. In relation to accounting standards, the report was prepared by using 2009 K-GAAP data and K-IFRS standards for data after 2010. Reporting Period and Range This report includes the economic, environmental and social activities and achievements of our head office and our domestic/overseas establishments from Jan. 1 to Dec.31, 2011 and a partial accounting of achievements for 2012. For the accomplishments that are related to the environmental and social sectors, reports mainly focus on accomplishments made by the head office and domestic worksites. For the accomplishments meant to present quantitative records, reports basically reflect past data recorded for a period equivalent to 3 years so as to discern a pattern of change in data according to the timeline. Verification To improve the credibility of the Sustainability Report, the Third Party Verification and GRI Application Level Check were conducted, and the results of these are included on page 82 of the report. Enquiry Hyundai E&C Sustainability Report is also available at (http://wwww.hdec.kr). Should you want more information or have any enquiries, please do not hesitate to contact us via the contact information below. We appreciate your feedback. Planning Division Hyundai E&C Bldg. 140-2, Gye-dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul, 110-920, Korea Tel_ 02-746-2512 fax_ 02-746-4856 e-mail_ sr@hdec.co.kr Designed by Reddot Branding This Report is printed on paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC™), and with soy ink made by a firm with FSC™ Chain of Custody certification (Trademark License Code : C110010)
