United Nations Global Compact Dietsmann Communication on Progress 2012 Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 2 of 28 Statement from the Chairman & President In this first Dietsmann annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions in respect of the progressive integration of the Global Compact’s ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. I am, therefore, pleased to confirm that Dietsmann has reaffirmed its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. At the end of 2011 Dietsmann signed the UN Global Compact charter. Since then we have been working on our Corporate Social Responsible (CSR) strategy by structuring our current responsibility actions and formulating our future global approach. We have also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders via our primary channels of communication. In conducting our activities we are inspired by, and committed to, upholding the principles of integrity, respect, loyalty, efficiency and transparency. But we now wish to be able to outline where we should improve and how to measure our progress. Dietsmann complies with the legislation of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the principles and best practices of good Corporate Governance and the ethics and anti-corruption legislation and regulations. Dietsmann’s first Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy was drawn-up more than ten years ago and has been reviewed and updated on a regular basis since then. As we are expanding our operations to include new sites it becomes increasingly important that our Corporate Social Responsibility approach is clearly formulated and communicated. Towards this end Dietsmann has now published a more detailed version of its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy in addition to its HSE Charters & Policies. It has also drawn-up a Business Ethics Charter in which its commitments are formalized. These documents explain very clearly all the fundamental rights, ethics values and UNGC principles that must be respected. In addition to this Dietsmann requests its business partners to endorse responsible business conduct through its Business Partners Policy. As Dietsmann’s Founder and Chairman, I am personally involved in bringing, upholding and communicating Dietsmann’s ethics values of integrity, respect, loyalty, efficiency and transparency to all employees during my regular visits to sites and subsidiaries. Dietsmann’s Corporate Social Responsibility approach promotes these ethics values as well as mutual respect and correct behavior. This approach incorporates our compliance with the applicable legislation in every country in which we operate as well as all the measures that have been included in Dietsmann’s overall strategy in order to ensure we achieve the highest standards of corporate responsibility and integrate the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact into our day-to-day work. Peter R.G. Kutemann Chairman & President Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 3 of 28 Table of Contents Statement from the Chairman and President .................................................................................. 1 I. Profile disclosure ...................................................................................................................... 4 1 Company profile ................................................................................................................... 4 2 Stakeholder relations. ........................................................................................................... 5 3 Scope of the report ............................................................................................................... 6 II. Human Rights principles .......................................................................................................... 7 1 Overall strategy .................................................................................................................... 7 2 Implementation ..................................................................................................................... 7 3 Outcomes ............................................................................................................................. 8 III. Labor Rights principles ............................................................................................................. 9 1 Overall strategy .................................................................................................................... 9 2 Implementation ..................................................................................................................... 9 3 Outcomes ........................................................................................................................... 10 IV. Environment principles ........................................................................................................... 22 1 Overall strategy .................................................................................................................. 22 2 Implementation ................................................................................................................... 22 3 Outcomes ........................................................................................................................... 22 V. Anti-corruption principle ......................................................................................................... 24 1 Overall Strategy.................................................................................................................. 24 2 Implementation ................................................................................................................... 24 3 Outcomes ........................................................................................................................... 24 VI. Dietsmann ‘s best practices world map .................................................................................. 26 VII. Informing stakeholders of Dietsmann’s implementation of the UNGC principles..................... 27 1 External communication ..................................................................................................... 27 2 Internal communication ...................................................................................................... 28 Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 4 of 28 I. Profile disclosure 1 Company profile  Name of the organization: Dietsmann N.V.  Dietsmann N.V. is a privately held company with its registered office in Breda, the Netherlands.  Company size: Dietsmann has offices and operations in 18 countries. The total workforce is 5347 employees (among which 1 706 REP employees are excluded from report’s scope).  Certification: French sites are ISO14001 certificated. Dietsmann Monaco has been ISO 9001 certificated since 1999. In 2008 Dietsmann Imperia and Dietsmann Salies du Salat were also awarded ISO 9001 certification.  HSE awards received during the reporting period: Nigeria AFAM: not a single Lost Time Incident since the start of the contract. Nigeria OBOB: 1 million hours worked without Lost Time Incident. Nigeria Okpai: 5 million hours without LTI. Shell Gabon: 3 years without LTI. Angola: 6 years and 6.8 million hours without LTI. Russia Sakhalin: 6 million hours worked without LTI.  Significant changes during the reporting period: acquisition of 51% of REP Engineering Company.  Organizational structure:  Corporate Seat: Breda, the Netherlands.  International Support and Coordination Office: Monaco.  Offices and operations worldwide: France, Italy, Republic of Congo, Gabon, Nigeria, Angola, Libya, Iraq, Korea, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, South Sudan, India, Kazakhstan, Russia and Switzerland. Dietsmann was founded in the Netherlands by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter Kutemann and is now the leading independent Operation & Maintenance (O&M) specialist for the Oil, Gas, LNG and power industry with over 35 years of accumulated plant and equipment expertise. Dietsmann’s core business is planning and managing the O&M of oil, gas and power plants in a way that optimizes safe operational performance, maximizes availability and minimizes costs. The planning, engineering and ongoing execution of maintenance is a complex task in which experienced professionals analyze the requirements, engineer the maintenance, plan the operations and manage continuous plant optimization. Major international and national oil and gas companies entrust Dietsmann with the O&M of their production facilities. Professional maintenance not only increases operating revenue, it also extends the productive life of the assets and, as a result, reduces the client’s capital expenditure. Dietsmann’s core management has always focused on delivering safe and efficient Operation & Maintenance and to achieve this working closely with its clients at all levels. The Company has accumulated a wealth of experience in operating and maintaining hundreds of production installations around the world. Currently the Company maintains an installed base of tens of thousands of different pieces of equipment as well as spare parts for all the production facility components of multiple configurations. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 5 of 28 As well as being the largest independent provider of specialized Operation & Maintenance services, Dietsmann is also the market leader in maintenance engineering and inspection (MEI). The Company’s worldwide operation & maintenance activities are supported by Dietsmann Technologies a Dietsmann branch that provides a wide range of electrical, instrumentation, engineering and construction services. As a substantial employer in the countries in which it operates Dietsmann takes its social responsibilities extremely seriously. The company has been active in Nigeria, Angola, Republic of Congo and Gabon for more than 25 years and in Kazakhstan and Russia since the early 1990s. In the countries in which it operates Dietsmann strives for 100 percent local employment in its maintenance organization. On June 20 2012 Dietsmann acquired a 51% stake in REP Engineering a Russian Global Maintenance Services Company providing repair and maintenance services to power stations, including four large plants. Headquartered in Moscow, REP Engineering has over 1,700 employees. This acquisition means Dietsmann now maintains more than 12 Gigawatts of both gas and steam turbine-driven power units. Dietsmann will remain independent and free of conflict of interest with regard to construction companies or original equipment manufacturers and this important principle will remain unchanged. 2 Stakeholder relations We strive to take into account our stakeholders expectations in our business decisions and overall strategy. We maintain a close relationship with our clients and ensure we regularly assess their satisfaction with our relations and, in order to improve ourselves, their further expectations. We commit to our clients that we will: • always listen to and learn from them; • tailor our services to their specific requirements; • offer effective industrial operation & maintenance solutions; • employ state-of-the-art but field-tested technology and leading edge working practices; • continuously improve in everything we do; • meet or exceed their expectations under optimal cost/benefit conditions; • be truthful in all advertising and communications. We commit to our employees that we will: • provide a safe and rewarding working environment; • ensure equal opportunity; • foster an atmosphere of teamwork and mutual respect; • motivate, empower and foster creativity and innovation; • facilitate and manage local and international career opportunities. We commit to society at large that we will: • strictly apply the highest ethical standards; • respect and care for the environment; • strive to be a good corporate citizen. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 6 of 28 3 Scope of the report The reporting period for the information provided is from January to December 2012. Social and Health, Safety & Environment sections have always been integrated into Dietsmann’s Annual Reports. Since the Annual Report of 2010 more detailed sections on sustainability and the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility actions have been added. In the Annual Report 2011 a section on UNGC stating Dietsmann’s commitments was also included. In 2012 Dietsmann appointed a dedicated employee to implement further actions and the Company’s commitment to integrating the UNGC principles into its operations and business strategy. By working closely with all departments this employee supports the continuous reinforcement of our sustainability and corporate responsibility actions. The process used to define the Communication On Progress (COP) content consisted of highlighting Dietsmann’s CSR actions within the UNGC framework and describing the additional actions related to the Global Compact approach that have been implemented. The report covers all Dietsmann’s operations except the newly-acquired Russian REP Company. As most of Dietsmann’s activities are carried out at clients’ facilities the Company does not always have full responsibility for the operations sites. This tends to restrict Dietsmann’s sphere of influence and reduce the scope of its actions aimed at protecting the environment and decreasing the impact of its operations. As this is Dietsmann’s first COP no extra financial audit has been carried out this year. The contacts for questions regarding this Report or its contents are: ⁻ the Group Communications Officer; ⁻ the Sustainable Development Coordinator. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 7 of 28 II. Human Rights Principles UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. UNGC Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1 Overall strategy Dietsmann actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights through updated relevant published and publically available documents. Dietsmann’s Human Rights practices are fully in line with UNGC expectations and include support of local communities, knowledge transfer and philanthropic initiatives involving the participation of Dietsmann’s employees. Dietsmann is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Dietsmann does not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment. The Company also encourages its business partners to respect Human Rights and expects them to observe its new “Business Partners Policy”. 2 Implementation Dietsmann has always been deeply concerned about the well-being of its employees. To ensure all its stakeholders are aware of its commitments Dietsmann has updated its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy and provided practical examples to explain the implications of these commitments in the day-to-day working environment. Dietsmann is committed to applying UNGC principles at all operating sites and striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles. An audit that includes an assessment of compliance with Human Rights, Labor Rights and UNGC principles is in progress. It will enable business partners to be evaluated and will support them in the implementation of good practices. An assessment of Human Rights risks in the countries in which Dietsmann is active will be carried out in the near future. The assessment will make use of information available on international databases. In addition, to protect its employees and stakeholders, Dietsmann has implemented a Grievance Mechanism, the “Upline email”, which can be used to obtain advices or to report any sensitive concern relating to Human Rights. The responsibility for this mechanism rests with the Ethics Committee appointed in 2012. Dietsmann’s ICT policy has also been updated to include commitments related to individual privacy and the protection of clients’ data. As Dietsmann’s operations continue to expand worldwide, the awareness campaigns necessary to ensure all employees understand their rights, the Company’s commitments and the availability of the upline email are planned and developed. The updated official documents are being issued in all the languages commonly used within Dietsmann to ensure all stakeholders can understand them. Employees will be expected to read the Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy and then sign and return a declaration slip confirming they have read and understood the document, which includes the UNGC principles and Dietsmann’s commitment to these principles. It is planned to provide all managers with specific training and to assess their understanding of the way they should implement the conduct guidelines in each country. The main concern is to ensure managers contribute towards informing employees and encourage them to endorse and implement the management’s views and policies. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 8 of 28 Dietsmann is also involved in philanthropic initiatives with local communities. It is planned to extend the initiatives which have had a positive effect to include other appropriate countries. 3 Outcomes During the reporting period Dietsmann was not the subject of any investigation, legal proceedings or incident involving Human Rights. Compliance with its Human Rights commitments is monitored by Dietsmann’s Human Resources Manager and the Company’s performance will be assessed regularly by the Ethics Committee and the Operations Committee. Dietsmann’s Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, HSE Charter, HSE Policies and Supplier Assessment Survey have recently been revised to include Human Rights concerns. All main suppliers are assessed by the procurement department in France. All the Corporate Policies and Charters in which the UNGC principles are integrated have been published on Dietsmann’s website. A Business Ethics Charter and a Business Partners Policy have been issued to encourage all Dietsmann’s stakeholders to abide by the UNGC principles. And an upline email with an up-stream procedure has been implemented to clarify the usage rules in the case of grievance reporting. Every two years the HSE compliance of all subsidiaries is audited by the Group HSE Manager and, at the same time, employees’ expectations in respect of all matters are surveyed. Best practices Dietsmann has built-up close relations with the communities that host its operations through longterm local initiatives and actions including sponsorships. For example, Dietsmann has a long-standing involvement in two main community activities through the Support and Coordination Office of Monaco.  First, Dietsmann was proud to be one of the official sponsors of the 13th ‘No Finish Line’ eightdays run organized by The Children & Future Association to help disadvantaged and sick children. Dietsmann and the other companies involved sponsor this event by donating one euro per kilometer run or walked by each employee. Dietsmann donates a total amount of 10,000 euros to this significant event, which makes us an official sponsor. During the 13th ‘No Finish Line’ held at the Port Hercules Circuit in Monaco in November 2012 the Dietsmann team of more than 131 participants completed a total of 4829 kilometers. The total of € 4829 they raised will be used by the Association to fund major projects, such as the provision of comprehensive support to foreign sick children undergoing humanitarian surgery in the Monaco Cardio-Thoracic Center, or to continue supporting the initiatives dedicated to helping children suffering from HIV/AIDS led by the Fight Aids Association Chaired by H.S.H. Princess Stéphanie. This sponsorship gives Monaco employees the opportunity to be involved collectively in a humanitarian activity in the name of Dietsmann.  Secondly, in line with the company’s concerns regarding Human Rights, Dietsmann continues to make an annual donation to “Les Enfants de Frankie”. For the past 15 years this Association has assisted about 20,000 children in great difficulty in Monaco and the PACA Region by supporting projects linked with hospitals, social services, orphanages and over 210 other aid associations.  Thirdly, Dietsmann also makes an annual donation to the local West African Rotary Club, which is continuing the fight against malaria by building a district health center and distributing curtains and paint impregnated with mosquito repellent. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 9 of 28 III. Labor Rights principles UNGC Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. UNGC Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. UNGC Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. UNGC Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 1 Overall strategy Dietsmann respects the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labor Organization's Declaration and all relevant legislation and regulations, including the local content of the countries in which it operates. Dietsmann expects its business partners to do the same. Dietsmann: respects freedom of association and supports collective bargaining. does not tolerate forced or child labor and discrimination. has always been committed to maintaining the highest level of HSE standards (target objective: zero fatalities and incidents that harm or injure employees). strives to minimize the Company’s environmental footprint. values the personal development of its employees and focuses on dynamic career management, supports internal promotion, invests in trainings and strives to take employees’ expectations into account. 2 Implementation Dietsmann has updated its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy to publically state its commitment to supporting Labor Rights, including safe and healthy working conditions, freedom of association, non-discrimination in personnel practices and access to basic health and education. As specified in the newly issued Business Partners Policy, business partners are expected to respect Labor Rights. The Suppliers’ Assessment survey has been reviewed in order to include Labor Rights assessment. All Dietsmann’s employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly defines their terms and conditions including pay rates, working hours and overtime compensation arrangements. All contracts specify employees are free to resign after a notice period defined according to the type of contact. Dietsmann does not have any employees under 18 years old. Information about standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures is handed to all employees when they join the Company. The implementation of the upline email grievance mechanism allows employees to request, in confidence, advice on Labor Rights matters and report any violation of fundamental rights. All requests and reports are answered, recorded and analyzed in order to attempt to avoid the situation recurring in the future and to gain an insight into the topics concerning which advice is sought with a view to implementing any improvements to the procedure deemed necessary. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 10 of 28 All expatriate employees receive a country informational sheet before taking up their duties. Every employee arriving for his/her first day of working at a site must follow a safety induction path during which the HSE Officer covers all the relevant HSE guidelines, general rules and site-specific operational rules. At the end of the induction path every employee is given a copy of the Safety Handbook, which must be signed by both the employee and the HSE Officer. Dietsmann’s comprehensive Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) policies and procedures ensure a continuous process of combined prevention and protection measures. An HSE Management System provides a framework for all our teams on operating sites and continuous consultation with employees regarding HSE issues contributes towards the improvement of safety & security at all sites. Dietsmann complies in full with all relevant health and safety legislation and all employees’ individual HSE knowledge is improved through regular training and presentations geared to their function and activities. Dietsmann’s HSE management is also continuously improving its policies. Every employee is expected to comply with all Dietsmann’s HSE policies and to make an active contribution towards their improvement by: ⁻ Taking all necessary precautions. ⁻ Reporting any witnessed near-misses, incidents or accidents. ⁻ Contributing towards the identification and assessment of risks. ⁻ Participating in HSE training courses. The eight HSE policies are Safety and Security, Health and Industrial Hygiene, Decent Work Conditions, Vehicle Driving, Substance Abuse, HIV/AID, Sustainable Development and Environment Protection. The essence of these policies is contained within the Business Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy. The full text of each policy can also be read in the Corporate section of Dietsmann’s website www.dietsmann.com. Throughout the year HSE campaigns provide employees and host communities with the information related to their country of operations in all the languages spoken within the Company in their country (see world map in section VII). To ensure all HR employees have a clear framework to enable them to put Dietsmann’s commitments into practice a Human Resources Management System is being developed. The system will ensure HR teams are kept fully up-to-date with the Company’s regulations on Human Rights and Labor Rights issues, including non-discrimination procedures and the equal opportunity standards to apply in day-to-day work. Specific training on Human and Labor Rights for managers is planned and managers will be assessed on their understanding on these issues on a regular basis. The Company endorses collective bargaining: employees’ representatives are active on all operating sites and are also provided with the necessary meeting facilities and appropriate time off duty to organize work sessions with the managers concerned. Dietsmann maintains its objective of providing national and expatriate employees with career opportunities and training programs. Whenever possible the Company also promotes national employment and provides communities with professional training support. 3 Outcomes During the reporting period Dietsmann was not involved in any investigation, legal proceedings or other relevant event related to Labor Rights. The Group Human Resources Manager is responsible for monitoring Labor Rights matters and is supported by an extensive HR team. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 11 of 28 Dietsmann was not subject to any health & safety statutory notices or prosecutions during the reporting period. The HSE department is the responsibility of a dedicated manager and local HSE officers on sites. To ensure the Company remains fully compliant, the HSE department maintains a continuously up-dated legislation and regulations database. In addition to the above, an audit to assess the commitment of Dietsmann’s main business partners to complying with fundamental rights and ethics is currently being set up. Main suppliers are assessed regularly by the procurement department in France and the assessment of local suppliers is being implemented in stages. This is being trialed by assessing the main business partners in Republic of Congo in respect of their compliance with Labor Rights. Dietsmann issues an annual HSE risks assessment in an HRA report (Health Risks Assessment) for the main operating sites and monitors risk management progress through regular HSE audits. Dietsmann ensures employees are aware of the Company’s rules and HSE procedures by giving all new employees a copy of the Safety Handbook. Thanks to this comprehensive HSE management system work, related injuries have remained close to target of zero fatalities and incidents that harm or injure employees. HSE Performance 2007 to 2011 LTIF (Lost Time Injuries Frequency) 3 TRIR (Total Recordable Incident Rate) 2,5 2 LTIF 1,5 TRIR 1 0,5 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 12 of 28 In addition to safety & security, employees’ good health is also a major concern for Dietsmann. This is why regular medical check-ups are provided to employees; in 2012 86% of employees have benefited from a medical check-up. Those visits are mostly done each year except in some countries where it is done every two years regarding local context as well as individual context (employee’ age and type of work). All employees are covered by medical insurance and throughout the year, information campaigns increase employees’ awareness of specific health issues. For example, in 2011 and during the reporting period in 2012, one of the key campaigns at all sites related to hand care. The hand care campaign resulted in hand injuries being reduced by 40% in 2011 and by 60% in 2012. HR performance is also monitored in terms of individual development, equal opportunities, diversity and training. Dietsmann operates an annual review process for employees; the number of scheduled interviews is increasing each year (see graph). The process identifies the employee’s personal development needs and training requirements for his/her current job position and projected career path. This year, 73% of the scheduled interviews were conducted which is a good result, given the high targets planned: + 51.70% compared to 2011’s targets. The increase of targets is not linked to a growth of the total amount of employees (only 3.67%, REP not included), it is due to the HR department’s will of interviewing as many employees as possible. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 13 of 28 Number of scheduled interviews 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 0 2011 2012 Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 14 of 28 Rates of interviews done by main operating countries Libya was included in the scheduled reviews but the review process was delayed due to the country’s difficult situation. Besides the review process, employees’ representatives are consulted regularly and their views and expectations are taken into account. The investment in training remained at a high level with 13,862 training days from January the 1st to October the 31st 2012. The opportunity to follow training courses appropriate to their specific job needs or projected career path is available for all employees. Training can cover technical, administration, languages or management courses and training sessions are also provided for the required HSE and IT topics. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 15 of 28 An average of 3.8 days of training was delivered per single employee on the period. The focus is made on transferring know-how and enhancing national employees’ skills. The Company’s employees include people of 58 different nationalities. Dietsmann’s recruitment criteria are based solely on skills and are not related to ethnic or religious origins, age, gender or any other form of discrimination. The diversity of Dietsmann’s workforce reflects its rejection of any form of discrimination. Dietsmann non-discrimination principle includes any explicit or implicit distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of color, gender, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, which has the effect of nullifying or spoiling equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation, including access to vocational training. Wherever applicable, Dietsmann allows the observance of national or religious traditions and customs with respect to weekly leisure time. As a global company, Dietsmann relies heavily on mutual respect and individual dignity and believes that diversity enhances shared knowledge. Dietsmann is present in 18 countries and in every one of these countries recruits employees by publishing worldwide open offers on its website. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 16 of 28 Others: 41 different nationalities The nationalization of expatriate positions is also a priority in terms of career management. Typically, over 98% of administrative staff positions and over 65% of management positions are filled by nationals of the countries in which Dietsmann operates. The Company remains focused on increasing the proportion of nationals employed in all categories. Dietsmann’s HR policy is reflected in the proportion of national employees across the Company overall, which is over 75%. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 17 of 28 % of employees by category of position 98% 100% 90% 77% 80% 70% 65% 60% Expatriates 50% Nationals 40% 35% 30% 23% 20% 10% 2% 0% Administrative Operationnal Management The HR department recruitment process also includes talented people without specific experience in the oil & gas sector. Since the program was launched in 2006, this Pro Active Recruitment System (PARS see Best practices section) attracted 36 potential employees and 35 of them have been hired. This program addresses to few candidates as it involves experienced employees’ contribution in transferring their knowledge. In 2012, 3 among the 4 PARS participants have been confirmed on operational positions; the last one is being in the hiring process. The specific nature of working on-site in extreme environments has to be taken into account as it requires a robust condition of health and quite often involves a rotational work schedule which is not convenient for everyone. Office positions obviously do not involve the same constraints as operational positions, and the gender ratio is quite balanced for these positions: women represent 43% of employees working at office position. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 18 of 28 Concerning age of employees, the breakdown is rather balanced: the average age is 39 years old. The rate of young employees (under the age of 35) is of 37%. The percentage is high and demonstrates Dietsmann’s ambition of recruiting and give opportunities to new talents. Notwithstanding numeral extreme work conditions positions, the global rate of employees over 55 years old represents 8% of all employees which is quite significant. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 19 of 28 Both the HR and HSE departments have improvement targets set from one year to another and their performance is analyzed on a regular basis by the Board of Directors. HR processes are audited by the ISO 9001:2008 certification organization on the regular basic LRQA (Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance). Best practices HR programs  TACT: “Technical Assessment Campaign and Training” The aim of this training program is to align the skills of national employees with the technical and safety requirements of their positions. This tool takes into account the assessment, training, mentoring and acquired knowledge measurement. TACT is applicable to three disciplines mechanics, instrumentation and electricity – and differentiates three levels of skill – junior technician, senior technician and foreman. The program is aimed at both national and expatriate employees. A personalized training & tutoring program is implemented based on the results of the assessment and lasts for approximately two years. The ongoing 2011 to 2013 campaign involves 474 participants.  KMP: “Key Managers Path” The objective of this project management training program is to prepare the key managers Dietsmann needs for its future operational development. This program is spread over several years and divided into two parts: Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 20 of 28 A training program focused primarily on management, finance, communication and specific group modules provided by our managers. An individual professional path which allows each candidate to gain the necessary competencies step by step. The candidates fulfill different positions involving an increasing scope of responsibilities. The current 2011 to 2012 session is dedicated to 11 participants.  PARS: “Pro Active Recruitment System” The PARS has been implemented since 2006 and is aimed at talented potential candidates not necessarily experienced in the oil & gas sector. The main purpose of the PARS is to hire technicians with a minimum of five years’ experience in the industrial sector. The recruits spend one month in the maintenance engineering department in order to gain a general overview of oil and gas projects before being assigned to one of Dietsmann’s branches for on-the-job training in different positions (for example maintenance, methods) by experienced technicians. HSE Campaigns  On all sites  HIV prevention campaign Dietsmann fully realizes that HIV/AIDS is an epidemic that can affect individuals at any level of society and that has complex socio-economic implications and consequences. Dietsmann, therefore, actively supports and encourages all measures and initiatives aimed at preventing and reducing the spread of this sickness. This includes information and training programs that are updated regularly to ensure they keep abreast of medical advances in AIDS-related fields.  Healthy life campaigns During the reporting period two ‘Healthy life’ campaigns were launched. The first focused on cardiovascular diseases. All Dietsmann employees have been informed about preventing high blood pressure, diabetes and heart attacks. The second dealt with the prevention of alcohol abuse by informing employees of the risks associated with alcohol.  On all African sites  Malaria Awareness and Prevention campaign Malaria is a serious public health enemy; malaria kills an African child every 30 seconds and there are more than 1,000,000 deaths from malaria every year! Dietsmann’s Malaria Awareness and Prevention campaign included information sessions and the distribution of impregnated mosquito nets to employees and their families. This campaign was also displayed in France for employees who regularly travel to endemic countries.  On all sites of operations  Handle with care campaign The back is essential to most human activity: walking, sitting down, loving, lifting. Since 2009 Dietsmann has run continuous training programs aimed at teaching employees the correct way to lift heavy objects.  Hand care campaign The Dietsmann Safety Campaign aimed at preventing injuries to hands was launched in 2011. Since then all Dietsmann employees are informed of the dangers involved in manual work and what they can do to protect their hands and avoid injuries. The campaign reminds Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 21 of 28 employees of safe manual handling practices and shows them how to improve working methods, avoid risks and prevent accidents involving hands. Training program support material is continuously displayed for all employees to see. Local communities Dietsmann also supports the development of the local communities that hosts its operations by entering into knowledge transfer partnerships.  Via a partnership with the CSP (Centre de Spécialisation professionnelle à PortGentil) a specialized education center in Gabon, Dietsmann participated in the building of premises and implementation of a professional training program on electricity.  Republic of Congo: equipment and school supplies for local communities. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 22 of 28 IV. Environment principles UNGC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. UNGC Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. UNGC Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 1 Overall strategy Dietsmann applies an environment protection policy based on ISO 14001 standards. As Dietsmann’s main activity involves the provision of services its impacts on the environment are more indirect than direct. Even so the Company is working on defining future measures to strengthen its approach to environment protection by drawing-up a list of good practices related to resource consumption and waste management. When Dietsmann operates on clients’ premises, the Company intends applying these good practices. Dietsmann also focuses on preventive maintenance to increase equipment lifetime and avoid spills. Furthermore, the Company encourages its business partners’ active protection of the environment through the Business Partners Policy. 2 Implementation Dietsmann complies with all relevant environmental legislation and regulations, and official documents publically state the Company’s precautionary approach in terms of the environment. In this context, Dietsmann’s procurement department evaluates suppliers on environmental protection matters. In the coming year Dietsmann’s current environmental rules will be expanded to include a full range of environmental good practices for operating activities. This should help reduce the environmental impact (resource consumption, waste and pollution), increase employee training in respect of environmental matters, implement a more accurate auditing system and improve Dietsmann’s ability to respond effectively to any issues that could arise. Over the past few years, regular campaigns have increased employees’ awareness of waste management and waste sorting rules. 3 Outcomes Dietsmann has not experienced any reportable environmental incidents during the past year and has not been subject to any statutory notice or prosecution. In order to remain fully compliant the HSE department maintains an up to date legislation and regulations database. Environmental issues are the responsibility of the Group HSE Manager. The Company’s French site has already been granted ISO14001 certification and environmental performance is assessed regularly through internal audits and analyzed during Operations Committee meetings. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 23 of 28 As a result, Dietsmann employs licensed waste companies to dispose of waste wherever available. Waste is sorted at 75 % of the Company’s sites. Where local facilities exist for the separate disposal of obsolete electrical and electronic equipment and for batteries these facilities are utilized and the weight of waste material is monitored and measured on a regular basis. Best practices HSE Campaigns  On all sites  Waste sorting Dietsmann develops and implements training and education programs on the environmental protection good practices for all employees including raising awareness regarding reducing waste production, promoting and maximizing recycling and the traceability of ultimate waste products.  World Environment Day: the environment is a priority for Dietsmann. World Environment Day presented an opportunity to communicate Dietsmann’s environment protection approach. A T-shirt printed with a QR code linked to the Global Compact article on our website was distributed. During World Environment Day employees were also informed about Dietsmann’s objectives of minimizing waste production in general, improving the Company’s energy efficiency by reducing the energy consumption linked to Dietsmann’s construction and maintenance operations, reducing harmful greenhouse gas emissions produced by vehicle fleets and facilities and improving the preventive maintenance of both Dietsmann’s and clients’ plant and equipment.  On all sites of operations  Employees commuting on all operations sites outside Europe.  Republic of Congo  Rainwater harvesting has been implemented for the equipment cleaning activities in Republic of Congo and is planned to be initiated in Gabon. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 24 of 28 V. Anti-corruption principle UNGC Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 Overall Strategy Dietsmann endorses the United Nations Convention against Corruption and is committed to combating all forms of corruption. To formalize this commitment Dietsmann has updated its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy and has drawn-up a Business Ethics Charter which includes ethics principles. The Company has a long-term commitment to ethics and transparency and uses the stipulations of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as a basis for the development and implementation of good Corporate Governance for Dietsmann’s overall management. This “Code”, the first version of which was published in 2004, contains principles and best practice provisions for Management Boards and Supervisory Boards as well as for financial reporting, audits, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards. Although the Code only applies to Dutch companies listed on a stock exchange recognized by the government, Dietsmann voluntarily complies with the stipulations and best practices of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Management Board and Supervisory Board use the Code as a management framework. Dietsmann also encourages its business partners to respect its Ethics commitments through the Business Partners Policy. 2 Implementation Dietsmann complies with all legislation and regulations related to ethics, Corporate Governance and anti-corruption. The Legal and Tax Director is responsible for ethics and anti-corruption matters within Dietsmann. The updated Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy document provides employees and other stakeholders with accurate guidelines regarding these issues. Training courses are being planned for 2013 and will address managers as a first step. The upline email implemented during 2012 enables employees to seek further advice should they have concerns regarding sensitive situations. The local HR departments and the Ethics Committee are responsible for answering, analyzing and recording requests for advice and reports of grievances and concerns. According to the up-stream procedure the final decision rests with the Ethics Committee. To encourage its business partners to respect its ethics commitments, the procurement department evaluates the Company’s main suppliers’ stand on ethics issues. In the near future Dietsmann’s main business partners will be asked to endorse the Business Partners Policy and will be assessed through an audit. An assessment of ethics-related risks linked to the Company’s countries of operations and main business partners is planned for 2013. 3 Outcomes Dietsmann has not been involved in any legal proceedings, ruling or other event related to corruption or bribery. Dietsmann has not made any political contributions. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 25 of 28 The upline email, the terms of use of which are explained in the Up-stream Procedure, enables any deviations from the Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy to be recorded and analyzed so attempts can be made to prevent similar deviations recurring in the future. Dietsmann’s audited financial statements are published in the Company’s annual report. Compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations is monitored by internal and external auditors. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 26 of 28 VI. Dietsmann‘s best practices world map Dietsmann good practices related to employees and communities hosting operations HSE best practices 1HSE Campaigns on all sites  HIV/AIDS prevention  Healthy life  Waste sorting  World Environment Day 2 -HSE Campaigns on all African sites  Malaria prevention 3HSE Campaigns on all operations sites  Handle with care  Hand care  Employee commuting => All operations sites outside of Europe 4Rainwater harvesting in République du Congo Labor Right best practices 5Professional training center: in Angola and in Gabon with the “Centre de Spécialisation Professionnelle” CSP in Port-Gentil Human Rights best practices 6No Finish Line 7Les Enfants de Frankie Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 27 of 28 VII. Informing stakeholders of Dietsmann’s implementation of the UNGC principles Every stakeholder is informed of Dietsmann’s actions related to the progressive integration of the Global Compact’s ten principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations on a regular basis via the external and internal communication channels relevant to the subject concerned and the particular stakeholders target group. 1 External communication  Dietsmann’s 2011 Annual Report includes a section dedicated to communicating officially and clearly the Company’s commitment to upholding the ten UNGC principles.  A letter to clients sent with the 2011 Annual Report asserted Dietsmann’s commitment to the UNGC principles.  A press release regarding Dietsmann’s commitment, including its adherence to the 10 UNGC principles, has been published in the International Media Wires.  Direct Marketing communications have been sent to business partners every month along with invoices.  Dietsmann’s efforts aimed at achieving a sustainable future are promoted in external advertising campaigns.  The client calendar for 2013 includes messages reflecting Dietsmann’s commitment to the UNGC principles.  A specific section and the UNGC logo are included in the updated Corporate brochure.  Publications on Dietsmann’s Corporate website: o In the value and sustainability sections: a click-on UNGC logo links to the page on Dietsmann’s commitment to the ten principles. o A UNGC page has been created. o All the Corporate Policies and Charters in which the UNGC principles are integrated are published on Dietsmann’s website. o Animation on the homepage includes messages related to sustainability and the environment. o A press release dedicated to Dietsmann’s UNGC commitment is published in the News section. o A sustainability section has been created and includes HSE and HR sections.  Official documents published: o The Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. o The Business Ethics Charter. o The HSE Policies and the HSE Charter. o The ICT Policy. o The Business Partners Policy. o The Up-stream Communication Procedure. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance Page 28 of 28 2 Internal communication  Newsletter: a dedicated article on Dietsmann’s UNGC commitment has been published and sent to all employees.  Internal Communication Flash News: Flash News reports are sent by email to all employees to inform them about all relevant news, such as company evolution, new contracts, HSE campaigns and events, World Environment Day and World Safety Day. A Flash News report was issued specifically to announce Dietsmann’s signing of the UNGC charter.  Several HSE campaigns are issued each year and include posters, training information and other communicative items for display in all offices worldwide.  All the Company’s policies have been updated and are available on the website.  The Safety Handbook has been issued in all the languages used within the Company.  To support World Environment Day organic cotton T-shirts were distributed to all employees and local events focusing on environmental issues were organized. In France, for example, an event and a quiz on the environment and sustainability were organized in June 2012.  A new birthday card, which is automatically sent to employees, has been designed and includes a sustainability-related message and the UNGC logo. Leaders in Oil, Gas and Power Plant Operations & Maintenance
