Lenovo® makes the technology that powers the world’s best ideas. We are the second largest PC maker and have the momentum and ambition to become the world’s leading personal technology company. We are the doers behind the doers—creating the tools that are pioneering, practical and powerful enough to make the world better. Focusing on quality and sustainability in everything we do is how we give back to our communities. So we do what we say and we own what we do. We’re here to empower the doers of the world. And that’s what we do best. This is Lenovo’s fifth annual sustainability report. It covers the Fiscal Year 2010/11 (April Basis of Calculations 1, 2010 through March 31, 2011). The most recent report prior to this was published in • All units refer to the U.S. dollar. January 2010 for the Fiscal Year 2009/2010. This and previous reports are available at • Lenovo may in some instances face various challenges when measuring its performance. http://www.lenovo.com/sustainability If there are contingencies with data provided, those contingencies will be noted in the documentation. Lenovo publishes annual reports and interim reports which are available at • Lenovo continues to drive for excellence in measuring and improving its http://www.lenovo.com/ww/lenovo/annual_interim_report.html The annual report contains a performance by adding new indicators. When new indicators are added, it may take sustainability overview. time to deliver trending information. Therefore, while we may be measuring something internally, we may not always provide the information publicly until we Lenovo’s most material risk and opportunity drivers in the areas of Governance Operations are certain that these statistics can be delivered in a high quality and consistent way. and Human Resources are outlined in this report covering strategic outlook, managerial approach and current year performance. Lenovo is currently in the process of developing a materiality-weighted approach for defining the most material sustainability tasks to prioritize Scope of the Report on an annual basis. • All references are to Lenovo’s fiscal year, which ends March 31, unless otherwise stated. • This report covers all Lenovo operations with the exception of our recently acquired Lenovo conducts outreach with a variety of stakeholders, e.g., NGOs, investors, regulators, company, Medion. Any data pertaining to joint ventures and acquisitions will be included in think tanks and academia. Lenovo attempts to incorporate their feedback in each sustainability subsequent reports. report. This includes interaction with the sustainability ratings community, which provides substantial input. Our Operations: • Primary operational hubs in Beijing, China; Singapore, Singapore; and Morrisville, Industry Sustainability Surveys: North Carolina, USA • Constituent stock of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index Series: Rated A+ • Major research centers in Yokohama, Japan; Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China; • oekom Research AG: Rated as Prime and Morrisville, North Carolina, USA • Carbon Disclosure Project: Rated 85, outpacing several industry competitors • PC manufacturing and assembly facilities in Beijing, Shanghai, Huiyang • No worldwide non-compliances with respect to environmental regulatory requirements and Shenzhen, China; Pondicherry, India; Monterrey, Mexico; Greensboro, North Carolina, USA; contract manufacturing and OEM worldwide External Assurance • Over 3,200 sales representatives worldwide and an extensive global channel partner network Bureau Veritas has provided verification services for this year’s greenhouse gas and emissions data. Bureau Veritas also certifies our compliance to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. 4 • Well over 90% of Lenovo notebooks, workstations and monitors and 50% of • Meet or exceed the climate change goals we’ve outlined in our Climate desktop platforms are ENERGY STAR® qualified. Change Policy. • Lenovo has challenged its product teams to incorporate post-consumer recycled plastic content into every PC product released by the end of the current fiscal At Lenovo, our mission is to become a leading personal technology company. We year (March 2012) and increase each business unit’s use of post-consumer will do this the right way—with a commitment to our customers, our people, our recycled content by 20% year-to-year. communities and our planet. We know that great companies are not only successful in the market, but they make the world a better place. On behalf of Lenovo’s • The company has used local manufacturing strategies to shorten ship 26,000+ global employees, I am proud of what we have achieved; I am committed requirements and achieved award-winning use of thermoplastics and other to continuing to improve and do even more across the sustainability spectrum; and I recycled packaging materials. am confident that Lenovo can achieve our goals and become a truly great company • In FY 10/11, Lenovo supply chain operations continued to show improvement in that will make a positive impact on our planet for many years to come. supplier engagement and commitment to the EICC code; 99% of our Tier one suppliers are committed to the EICC and have signed formal agreements. • In August of 2010, I signed a comprehensive Climate Change Policy for Lenovo and approved associated targets to support these policy goals. Our climate change strategy focuses on five areas of influence within which Lenovo works to drive and facilitate global, national and local Greenhouse Gas emissions Thank you, reductions, and we’ve continued to make great progress in each of these areas. At the same time, we recognise challenges that lie ahead. For the period 2011/2012 Lenovo aims to: • Continue our efforts to formalise program management and corporate governance of Lenovo’s Sustainability Programs under the umbrella of our new chief sustainability executive. • Maintain and grow our leadership in the use of post-consumer recycled content Yang Yuanqing, Chairman and CEO in the design of our products. 6 8 General Data Communities and Philanthropy U.S. Dollars Million Sales: FY 2006/07 FY 2007/08 FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Charitable and Other FY 2006/07 FY 2007/08 FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 $13,978 $16,352 $14,901 $16,605 $21,594 Donations $1,138,150 $7,796,652 $2,993,000 $497,000 $2,143,000 Sales Breakdown Balanced Geographical Mix FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Charitable Giving CY 2007 CY 2008 CY 2009 CY 2010 Emerging Markets (excluding China) 15.8% 15.9% 17.9% U.S. Employee Charitable Giving Campaign $369,000 $562,000 $317,000 $406,000 (given by employees)* Mature Markets 42.4% 36.6% 35.7% Lenovo Matched Contributions (based on China 41.8% 47.5% 46.4% N/A N/A N/A $140,000 employee contribution above)* Totals 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Volunteering FY 2007/08 FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Sales Breakdown By Product FY 2006/07 FY 2007/08 FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Volunteering by hours – North Carolina* 1720 2990 770 1300 Notebook 54.8% 57.6% 58.6% 62.6% 60.2% Desktop 43.7% 41.0% 39.6% 35.0% 33.9% Mobile Phone 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.5% 3.7% Others 1.5% 1.4% 1.8% 1.9% 2.2% Research and Development FY 2006/07 FY 2007/08 FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Expenditures/Sales 0.0140 0.0141 0.0148 0.0129 0.0141 Employees, Health and Safety FY 2006/07 FY 2007/08 FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Number of Employees 25,100 23,111 22,511 22,205 27,039 Hours of Training and Education Per CY 2007 CY 2008 CY 2009 CY 2010 Employee (including part-time) N/A N/A N/A 35 Incident Rates CY 2007 CY 2008 CY 2009 CY 2010 Recordable Rate 0.23 0.17 0.59 0.41 Lost-time Rate 1.57 1.05 2.48 2.06 CY 2007 CY 2008 CY 2009 CY 2010 Number of OHSAS 18001 Registered Facilities 6 6 6 8 Site Environmental Data Customer Returns by Geography (metric tons) CY 2009 CY 2010 GHG Emissions (metric tons CO2 equivalent – MT CO2e)** CY 2008 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 EMEA 6,104 8,326.76 Scope 1 1,468 1,495 1,249 The Americas 386 364.89 Scope 2 76,621 68,133 61,072 Asia Pacific 676 972.43 Scope 3 14,819 15,675 24,316 Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 92,908 85,303 86,637 Recovery and Recycling Trends CY 2007 CY 2008 CY 2009 CY 2010 (metric tons) Emissions Intensity: GHG Emissions – Scope 1 and Scope 2 CY 2008 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Product End-of-Life Management (PELM) 17,275.65 17,919.40 11,546.64 13,468.63 (metric tons per $ million revenue) Product Take Back (PTB) 5,773.96 6,527.07 7,166.17 9,664.08 5.24 4.19 2.89 Operational Energy Intensity Use – Scope 1 and Scope 2 Total End-of-Life Disposition (metric tons) CY 2009 CY 2010 CY 2008 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 (MWh per $ million revenue) Reused 483 547.26 Fuel Combustion 0.47 0.43 0.27 Recycled 8,572 10,992.08 Purchased Energy (electricity and steam) 7.18 5.65 4.15 Waste to Energy (WTE) 956 1,471.76 Incinerate 1,297 171.11 Operational Energy Use – Scope 1 and Scope 2 (MWh) CY 2008 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Landfill 240 286.42 Fuel Combustion 6,934.58 7,177.27 5,907.84 Purchased Energy (electricity and steam) 106,961.97 93,894.46 89,677.22 Lenovo ISO 14001 Registered Sites FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Number of ISO 14001 Registered Sites Water CY 2008 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 14 14 15 Water Use (cubic meter) 305,179 295,212 302,391 Waste Water Discharge Values (cubic meter) 278,798 259,451 272,541 Footnotes: *Lenovo is working to provide charitable giving and volunteer hours for more work sites in future reports. Waste Water Exceedances 0 0 0 **Lenovo’s GHG Emissions Inventory Specifics: Data for 2008 is based on a calendar year; fiscal year data for 2008/2009 is not available. Waste (metric tons) CY 2008 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 Lenovo started to verify GHG emissions data in FY 2009/2010. Scope 3 – Other Indirect Emissions – includes only business travel. Non hazardous Waste (processes and operations waste, N/A 11,995.84 12,691.89 Approximately 5% of purchased energy (electricity and steam) is estimated based upon energy use at product waste separately) similar Lenovo facilities with metered usage. Hazardous Waste (processes and operations waste, 10.39 34.61 17.87 MWh – Megawatt hour. product waste separately) Product Environmental Data Disposition of Products Returned from Customers (metric tons) CY 2009 CY 2010 Reused 198.76 160.00 Recycled 5,751.85 7,582.80 Waste to Energy (WTE) 955.59 1,471.76 Incinerated 31.35 165.59 Landfill 222.62 283.93 11 Target Type Objective Key Performance Indicator(s) Target(s) Minimize use of hazardous or potentially Availability of low halogen products Transition select Lenovo Products to low halogen. hazardous materials. Product Materials Increase % of Post-Consumer Content (PCC) % PCC Increase the use of PCC in Lenovo Products. purchased for CY 2011 by 20% relative to CY 2010. % of products with PCC 100% of Lenovo Products. Establish Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) within all Lenovo product families Drive reduction in CO2e emissions associated with # of models with PCF established Product Energy by 3/31/2012 operation of products. % of models ENERGY STAR® qualified Increase % of ENERGY STAR® qualified desktop models. Minimize the use of packaging material consumption Continue to implement use of sustainable packaging materials across all BU. Product Packaging Material type used while driving the use of environmentally sustainable Continue to work towards elimination of EPS across all BU. materials. Packaging size (quantity of material consumed) Reduce packaging size for select products. Reduce transportation related GHG emissions MT CO2e Establish product transportation baseline by 3/31/2012. attributable to Lenovo operations. Supplier Performance % Cat 3 suppliers audited 100% Minimize potential environmental impact of Identify, evaluate and recommend emissions management strategies relative Lenovo’s Category 1, 2 and 3 suppliers. Supplier scope 1 and 2 emissions to supplier GHG emissions by 3/31/2012. Minimise environmental impacts associated with solid Waste intensity Decrease waste intensity year to year. waste generated from Lenovo operations and products. % nonhazardous solid waste recycled 90% MWh Monitor, manage and minimise energy consumption. Decrease energy intensity year to year. Lenovo Site Performance Units/KWh -13% by 3/31/2013 re: FY 2009/10 Absolute reduction in CO2e. Metric tons CO2e -16% by 3/31/2016 re: FY 2009/10 -20% by 3/31/2020 re: FY 2009/10 12 13 While the Lenovo brand came into existence only in 2004, the company has a much longer • We make a smart phone in China and every day our app store there delivers more than history. In 1984, Legend Holdings was formed with 25,000 RMB in a guard house in China. The 25,000 downloads. company was incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 and would grow to be the largest PC company in China. Legend Holdings changed its name to Lenovo in 2004 and, in 2005, acquired the • We have launched a family of tablets targeting both the consumer and commercial former Personal Computer Division of IBM, the company that invented the PC industry in 1981. markets internationally. Today, Lenovo is a US$21 billion personal technology company and the world’s second-largest • We are growing in triple digits in the all-in-one market worldwide, funding an application PC vendor. We have more than 26,000 employees in more than 60 countries serving customers developers’ movement in China, and growing our retail presence from Germany to Japan. in more than 160 countries. A global Fortune 500 company, we have headquarters in Beijing, Lenovo’s business is built on product innovation, a highly efficient global supply chain and China and Morrisville, North Carolina, U.S.; major research centers in Yokohama, Japan; strong strategic execution. The company develops, manufactures and markets reliable, Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China; and Morrisville; and we have manufacturing around high-quality, secure and easy-to-use technology products and services for customers who the world from Greensboro, North Carolina and Monterrey, Mexico to India, China and Brazil. want technology that does more—because people have a lot more to do. Our product lines We create and build exceptionally engineered personal technology, but we are much more include legendary Think-branded commercial PCs and Idea-branded consumer PCs, as than a tech company. We are defining a new way of doing things as a next generation global well as servers, workstations and a family of mobile internet devices, including tablets and company. We have our core strength in China, rapid growth in emerging markets and a unique smart phones. global footprint. Lenovo builds on its dominant position in China to grow globally. The expansion We have a long-term goal of becoming the leading personal technology company in the world. from East to West—introducing our newest products in China and then spreading across the We aspire to achieve this goal by leading in three key areas: globe—is a new way of viewing the world, one we believe will be the way of the future. • Personal Computers: Lead in PCs and be respected for our product innovation and quality. That means we are years ahead of the game in terms of understanding what it will take to win 5 or even 10 years from now. That focus on the future is based on a strong history of success • Convergence: Lead the industry with an ecosystem of devices, services, applications that is driving results today. and content for people to seamlessly connect to people and Web content. We have momentum. Long the leader in China with more than 30% market share in PCs, Lenovo • Culture: Become recognized as one of the best, most trusted and most well-respected is growing rapidly and winning market share in all parts of the world. Lenovo has realized strong, companies to work for and do business with. balanced growth while achieving a number of major breakthroughs. Achieving optimal balance And we want to do it the right way—the Lenovo Way—with our own perspective, our own global in all that we do is Lenovo’s operating philosophy. This mindset encompasses every aspect of point of view and our own commitment to building technology for people who view technology Lenovo’s business, from balancing leadership with consensus-building, to valuing both short as a tool to accomplish great things. and long-term thinking. As a result, we have created a balanced business model and strategy that take maximum advantage of profit and investment across both core and new businesses. Lenovo has consistently outgrown the worldwide PC market in unit shipments and gained market share across all geographies, products and customer segments, making it the fastest growing of the four major PC companies in the world for two years running. • We are the number one PC company in China and now in Japan. • We are the number one PC company in the world for large business and the public sector. • We have been the fastest growing major consumer PC brand on the planet in the past year. • We make the fastest booting notebook in the world. It’s a ThinkPad—and in 18 years, 60 million of them have been sold. 14 Our Values At Lenovo we view our culture as a critical asset as important as an effective business model. to helping those less fortunate and, when disaster strikes, to lending a helping hand to those We call our culture the “Lenovo Way”, and at its most basic, that culture is reflected in the who are in difficult circumstances. In addition, Lenovo has committed 1% of its pre-tax statement: We do what we say and own what we do. income to programs and initiatives that serve society to adress issues in areas of great Our values serve as the foundation of our company and define who we are and how we work. need, no matter where those areas or issues happen to be. Principal among them are: Innovation: A Core Value • Serving Customers • Trust and Integrity Lenovo owns the greatest track record for innovation in the PC industry and remains committed to innovation in its products and technology. We will continue to leverage the spirit • Teamwork Across Cultures of innovation and history of technological breakthroughs into new product categories and • Innovation and Entrepreneurial Spirit drive future growth. Innovation is how Lenovo achieves competitive differentiation and drives new market opportunities, such as mobile Internet, digital home and cloud computing. Our Heritage Lenovo products consistently win awards and receive rave reviews. They deliver the high Lenovo came about as the result of the merger of two of the most storied companies in quality, reliability and durability to meet our customers’ demand. The ultimate goal of Lenovo’s technology and business: Legend Holdings in China and IBM’s Personal Computing Division R&D team is to improve the overall customer experience while driving down the cost in the United States. The merger was heralded as a watershed event in global business with of ownership. the potential for integrating two disparate cultures, languages, processes and markets. Lenovo operates 46 world-class labs, including research centers in Yokohama, Japan; Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China; and Morrisville, North Carolina, U.S. Lenovo’s innovation Our Commitment to Corporate Citizenship (CSR) strategy is based on a two-tiered approach to solving real-world customer problems: Lenovo is committed to being a responsible and active corporate citizen, consistently working • Focus the majority of development on ideas that can be brought to market within 24 months. to improve its business while contributing to the betterment of our local communities, the • Invest longer term in research targeting “game changing” big plays. environment and society overall. Lenovo practices corporate citizenship in many ways: The company is rich in talent, employing more than 3,000 engineers, researchers and • Product quality and safety: Lenovo is focused on the safety of our products throughout scientists. Lenovo’s R&D teams have introduced many industry firsts supported by a track their entire lifecycle, from manufacturing, transportation and installation to use, service record of innovation—including more than 2,000 patents and more than 100 major design and recycling or disposal. awards. Acquisitions, collaboration with industry associations, and investments in research and development even in down cycles enable us to stay ahead of market trends and deliver a • Safe and healthy workplaces: Lenovo prides itself on creating a world-class comprehensive portfolio of products. experience for its employees at facilities across the planet—from our headquarters and sales offices to our R&D labs to the manufacturing floor. In addition to meeting Lenovo’s global scale and emphasis on innovation also give us a degree of visibility regarding the legal requirements of the countries in which we do business, we ensure our the health and well-being of the communities and markets we serve. Through this we are better employees have safe equipment and facilities; are offered competitive compensation able to innovate and deliver relevant solutions that address a number of key sustainability packages; and are supported by stringent voluntary workplace safety standards. measures addressed in this report from climate and energy to environmentally-conscious products, education and employee voluntarism. • The highest ethical standards: Lenovo is committed to the highest standards of integrity and responsibility, including respecting and protecting intellectual property. As a result, Lenovo embodies unique market possibilities in combining the best of East and We provide guidance to every employee on a wide range of issues, including ethical West—joining North American and China-based technology players in the creation of a unified business practices, securities trading, health and safety, and compliance with legal global personal technology leader with growing market positions in developed and emerging and regulatory requirements. markets alike. Everyone at Lenovo takes great pride in our ability to attract top talent from diverse backgrounds, • Concern for the environment: Lenovo is committed to environmental responsibility in representing a broad collection of nationalities and languages. We view our differences and all aspects of its business, from product design and supplier selection to manufacturing, diversity as a source of strength in building a collaborative culture with one unified language facilities management, transportation and logistics and product lifecycle management, and vision: to build the world’s most exceptionally engineered personal technology products including recycling and reuse. and services. • Donating time and resources to philanthropy: Lenovo and its employees are committed 15 1% 57% 42% Lenovo Products Graphic Representation of Sales by Region • ThinkPad® • ThinkPad Edge • ThinkCentre® • ThinkStation® • ThinkServer® • ThinkVision® • IdeaPad® • IdeaCentre® • Lenovo Essential 18% Innovation Capacity Expressed as a Percentage of Sales China 46% Mature Market FY 2006/07 Emerging Market (Excluding China) FY 2007/08 36% FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 Acquisitions/Joint Ventures FY 2010/11 In January 2011, Lenovo announced an agreement to establish a strategic joint venture with NEC Corporation (NEC). This joint venture created the largest PC group in Japan, giving both 1.15 1.20 1.25 1.30 1.35 1.40 1.45 1.50 Lenovo and NEC a unique opportunity to grow their commercial and consumer PC businesses in the world’s third largest PC market through a stronger market position, enhanced product In Percentage portfolios and expanded distribution channels. See http://www.lenovo.com/ww/lenovo/investor_relations.html for more information. 17 Governance is the foundation of a sustainable company. Lenovo provides detailed information The Company has established four Board Committees: the Audit Committee, Compensation about its governance structure, policies and performance on pages 30–54 of the Annual Report. Committee, Strategy Committee and Governance Committee. Each Board Committee has For quick reference, the following overview is provided: defined terms of reference, available upon written request to the Company Secretary. Further The governing structure of Lenovo consists of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) led by detail on the duties and operation of these Board Committees is included in the Annual Report, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). The Board and the Company’s senior pages 32–35. management strive to attain and uphold a high standard of corporate governance and to maintain sound and well-established corporate governance practices in the interest of shareholders and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer other stakeholders. The positions of the Chairman of the Board and CEO at Lenovo have traditionally been held The Company abides strictly by the governing laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where by separate individuals. The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and it operates and observes the applicable guidelines and rules issued by regulatory authorities. in the achievement of its objectives whereas the CEO has delegated authority of the Board to It regularly undertakes review on its corporate governance system to ensure it is in line with take direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the international and local best practices. financial and operational performance of the Group. As of March 31, 2011, the posts of Chairman Throughout the year, ended March 31, 2011, the Company has complied with the code and CEO were held by Mr. Liu Chuanzhi and Mr. Yang Yuanqing respectively. Aside from their provisions of the Code on Corporate Governance Practices required for companies traded on service to Lenovo, there is no relationship of any kind (including financial, business, family, other the Hong Kong Exchange. The Company has also adopted the Model Code set out in Appendix material and relevant relationships) between the Chairman and the CEO. 10 of the Listing Rules and has implemented a company policy based on this Model Code to govern securities transactions by directors and designated senior management of the Company. Investor Relations and Communication with Shareholders Finally, to address potential conflicts of interest at the Board level, it is expressly provided The Company is committed to the safeguarding of shareholders’ interests. Shareholders in the Company’s Articles of Association that, unless otherwise permissible in the Articles of are provided sufficient notices of the Company’s annual meetings and are encouraged Association, a director shall not vote on any resolution of the Board approving any contract or to attend and to actively participate in such meetings. All resolutions at the General arrangement or any other proposal in which he/she is materially interested. Meetings are conducted by way of poll voting. Results of the poll are published on the Company’s website (www.lenovo.com/hk/publication) and the HK Exchange’s website Board of Directors (www.hkex.com.hk). The Board is responsible for overseeing the overall strategy of the Company and directing and Lenovo has also established an investor relations team to promote open, transparent, efficient supervising its affairs in a responsible and effective manner, while management is responsible for and consistent communications with shareholders, investors and equity analysts. The team the daily operations of the Company under the leadership of the CEO. The Board has formulated commits to proactively providing the investment community all necessary information, data and a clear written policy that stipulates the circumstances under which the management should services in a timely manner, in order to promote a solid understanding of the Company’s strategy, report to and obtain prior approval from the Board before making decisions or entering into any operations and new development. During the Fiscal Year 2010/11, the Company hosted a series commitments on behalf of the Company. of analyst briefings, webcasts, conference calls and global investor roadshows, and the senior As of May 26, 2011, there were eleven Board members consisting of one executive director, six management team presented its annual and quarterly earnings results in Hong Kong, New York, non-executive directors and four independent non-executive directors. The biographies and Beijing and San Francisco. responsibilities of directors and senior management are set out in the Annual Report, pages 62–65. Further information about Lenovo’s 2010 Annual General Meeting and Investor Relations activities is available in the Annual Report at pages 44–45. 19 Lenovo has a well-earned industry reputation for delivering superior quality products. Lenovo’s Lenovo leaders are responsible for establishing objectives and using measurements to drive global Quality Management System, which has received ISO 9001 (International Organization continual improvement in quality and customer satisfaction. All Lenovo employees are expected for Standardization) certification, ensures the continual delivery of design improvements into to contribute to this continual improvement as an integral part of our quality management system. Lenovo’s current and future products. Lenovo’s corporate quality policy is available at: http://www.lenovo.com/quality ISO 9001 is the international standard for achieving overall quality in business process management. ISO 9001 requirements create the framework for conducting business in a manner that enables companies to realize the highest caliber of workmanship and customer satisfaction. Customer-Focused Testing This framework comprises the entire span of product and service delivery, from the purchase Once the product development phase is completed and before production, Lenovo products of raw materials or components, contract review, quality control product inspection, design, undergo a series of customer-driven tests. These include ongoing customer simulation development, handling, delivery, employee training, and customer service and support. Lenovo evaluations and customer simulation audits to evaluate product quality by removing systems from strongly embraces the ISO 9001 commitment to an effective quality management system, and is the box and setting them up in typical customer configurations. In addition, extended customer dedicated to exceeding industry standards when it comes to detail, product quality and product simulation tests are conducted on a sample basis with various configurations of product options reliability. and software. This last evaluation simulates the performance of the product through various standard customer applications. Lenovo has continued to enhance our customer-focused Building upon our company’s heritage, Lenovo combines the talents of the innovation-driven program by sending technical teams to support installations at customers’ premises. China Legend team and the quality heritage from the former IBM Personal Computing Division, including some of the industry’s top PC engineers to create a powerful global company focused During and after the installation, there is ongoing dialogue between the customer and Lenovo. on exceptionally engineered products. Product managers are responsible for establishing This provides timely feedback on installation progress, allows corrective actions to be rapidly objectives and measuring results to drive continual improvement in quality and customer implemented and pre-empts potential issues. This has proven to be highly advantageous satisfaction throughout the organization. during new product release as issues can be promptly addressed to minimize the impact on all customers. Lenovo’s comprehensive product development process includes prototype development, product testing and focus groups to ensure the company meets the diverse needs of our global customers. For instance, Lenovo proactively seeks input on design and product features from customers and partners. Prototypes are extensively evaluated, and final products undergo rigorous testing to ensure that they meet stringent standards specific to their application and use before they are cleared for shipment. Lenovo’s Technical Evaluation Center provides information and recommendations to Lenovo Engineering. Lenovo’s Lessons Learned feedback loop aids in refinement and the maturation of our processes and elimination of recurring problems. As a result, Lenovo’s product repair action rates are among the lowest in the industry. 21 Lenovo is committed to ensuring that our products are safe throughout their lifecycle, including The following table depicts the process for product development and assessment manufacturing, transportation, installation, use, service and disposal. Corporate strategies, for safety at various lifecycle points. policies and guidelines have been designed to support this commitment to product safety. Each employee bears a personal responsibility to advance the following objectives: Hardware Safety Assessment Requirements at Lifecycle Points • Meet all applicable legal requirements and voluntary safety and ergonomics practices to which Point in Product Lifecycle Hardware Safety Assessed Lenovo subscribes wherever we sell products. Development of product concept No* • Select suppliers that demonstrate a similar commitment to safety and provide customers with R&D Yes adequate information to enable them to safely use Lenovo’s products. Certification Yes • Foster employee involvement and provide appropriate resources to develop and implement Manufacturing and production Yes successful product safety initiatives. Marketing and promotion No** • Continually improve product safety initiatives. Storage distribution and supply Yes • Investigate product safety incidents and take prompt remedial actions to protect Lenovo’s customers and employees. Use and service Yes Disposal, reuse or recycling Yes • Periodically report on safety initiatives and incidents to senior executive management. *Too early at this stage. **Not relevant at this stage With a focused emphasis on product safety and quality, Lenovo is achieving high customer satisfaction and delivering quality products, solutions and services. In FY 2010–11, there were no incidents that were subject to the reporting criteria of government safety regulations and voluntary safety agencies concerning the health and safety impacts of Lenovo products and services. Click this link for Lenovo’s corporate Product Safety and Ergonomics Policy. 22 23 As a global company with a rich heritage of Eastern and Western cultures, Remove valuing Women In Lenovo Leadership (WILL) and respecting diversity is instrumental to Lenovo’s success. By leveraging the diversity of our ◊ WILL was launched in 2007 on International Women’s Day with the purpose of workforce, Lenovo is able to exceed market expectations, attract and retain top talent and create addressing key priorities that support a woman’s growth and contribution to the company. a workplace where employees achieve their greatest potential. ◊ Gina Qiao, SVP – HR serves as the executive sponsor of WILL. Lenovo bases our corporate policies on four key company values: customer service, innovative and entrepreneurial spirit, teamwork across cultures and trustworthiness and integrity. Lenovo’s ◊ WILL involves events, programs and HR processes to enhance work life balance, diversity policy is also grounded in these core values, seeking to drive innovation and creativity mentoring, networking, training and external partnerships with other players at Lenovo by leveraging both the similarities and differences of our diverse, talented and global engaged in initiatives for women. workforce to support strong business performance. ◊ WILL is a global program with regional leaders in Australia/New Zealand, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Mexico, Western Europe, UK, India, Japan, South Africa Diversity Commitment and the U.S. These leaders provide specific focus on topics of interest to women in these regions. Lenovo values the strength of our global workforce and recognizes that by bringing together employees with different perspectives and experiences, we spark innovation and better decision ◊ WILL contributes to the overall business strategy of Lenovo and is therefore a key making, which contribute to our long-term success. ingredient to profitability. Employees have an opportunity to leverage their diverse experiences and knowledge to expand their growth. We are uniquely poised to help our company and organizations successfully maneuver this new diverse, global Key Diversity Executives reality because we have such a strong foundation in advocating for, and advancing, Lenovo has a globally dispersed, multicultural management team with broad expertise that inclusion in our workplace. WILL is an essential part of developing an outline of sponsors key culture initiatives. Lenovo’s key diversity executives are: how our current and future leaders can develop and leverage their skills to help • Yang Yuanqing, Chairman and CEO, serves as executive diversity sponsor. make all of our companies and organizations more successful on a global scale. • Yolanda Conyers serves as Lenovo’s chief diversity officer. WILL also participates in key events to address visibility and awareness, including: • Gina Qiao, SVP – Human Resources, serves as executive sponsor of Women In Lenovo ◊ Partnership and participation with The Women’s Forum for Economy and Society Leadership (WILL), Lenovo’s global women’s initiative. in Deauville, France, October 14–16, 2010. This is the 5th consecutive year for this partnership. Since its inception, the Women’s Forum has done much to promote and give credibility to women entrepreneurship and women executives globally. Diversity Initiatives ◊ Participation in IT Diversity Forums in Western Europe. Lenovo’s current and ongoing initiatives in the area of diversity include: ◊ Participation in Cercles InterElles conférence in France. This networking conference with • Developing the workforce to reflect our diverse marketplace. over 600 participants from 10 companies provides the opportunity to analyze conditions • Ensuring diversity is the main component of culture and the business model while driving for success and identify obstacles that women face. innovation and respect for differences. ◊ Sponsoring global key events, e.g., panel discussions, community activities and networking • Positioning Lenovo to utilize diverse suppliers. events. • Participating in community outreach and other external partnerships to support global ◊ Hosting events that address training, career development, mentoring and work/life business initiatives. balance for all women at Lenovo by partnering with WITI, Working Mothers Media, local chamber organizations and the Center for Creative Leadership. 24 ◊ Hosting global executive roundtables to discuss women’s promotion in our company, advice and where to obtain it. All Lenovo employees are required to comply with the networking and mentoring. Code, which is available in seven languages and is accessible on our website at ◊ The “Fran O’Sullivan WILL Scholarship” program was initiated in 2010. Women http://www.lenovo.com/social_responsibility/us/en/2011_Lenovo_CodeofBusinessConduct_EN.pdf attending any U.S. accredited college with a declared major in math, science or computer engineering are eligible to receive this scholarship of $5,000. Furthermore, in keeping with best practices, Lenovo has developed and implemented an AntiBribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which reinforces the message in the Code of Conduct and Marketplace and Supplier Diversity provides additional specific guidance regarding compliance with rules and laws related to bribery Lenovo also strives to promote diversity in the companies we choose to partner with as and corruption. subcontractors. Lenovo is continuing to refine our U.S. marketplace and supplier diversity strategy, which will focus on three key goals: increasing access to diverse talent, increasing Employees are further required to participate in regular training to reinforce the company’s access to a diverse supplier base and supporting entrepreneurship in local communities. commitment to compliance and to conducting business with integrity. In addition, all new Lenovo is a key sponsor of the Girls in Engineering Program and the Global Marathon, which employees receive training and information about our ethics and compliance program upon start provide education and awareness to encourage girls to consider careers in engineering and of employment. Additional information about the company’s commitment to conducting business technical fields. with integrity is provided through the company’s intranet and other periodic communications. Lenovo provides formal, confidential ways to report when potential violations of law, company Diverse Business Relationships policy or the Code of Conduct occur. These include postal mail, e-mail and our LenovoLine, Lenovo is committed to promoting diversity in our business relationships, including fostering which is a confidential reporting system accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week by secure the utilization and development of minority, women and other small business concerns for the procurement of products and services. Lenovo’s corporate strategies, policies and guidelines website or toll-free telephone with translators available. Where allowed by law, employees may are aligned to support this commitment to diverse business relationships. report concerns about business practices anonymously if they choose, which is designed to encourage reporting and protect against fear of retaliation. The LenovoLine and other resources are also available to help counsel employees who may have questions or concerns. Lenovo regards any suspected violation of law, policy or the Code as a serious matter and is committed to follow up on all reported concerns, which are addressed and tracked to resolution. Lenovo also provides a detailed description of its Internal Controls and Internal Audit function, including risk assessment, risk management and compliance, on pages 42–44 of its 2010/11 Lenovo has a chief ethics and compliance officer who manages the company’s global ethics and Annual Report. compliance program. Lenovo’s Ethics and Compliance Office oversees ethics and compliance across the organization, working in partnership with our business units to see that we achieve our business goals while meeting the letter and spirit of the legal and regulatory framework in which we operate. Our Ethics and Compliance Office plays a critical role in providing employees with the resources and information they need to make the right choices and decisions. With these Lenovo employees support systems in place, we describe clear expectations for employees and hold them accountable for blood drives their behavior. Lenovo Morrisville together with Rex Blood To make sure employees understand the company’s expectations, we established a Code of Services sponsors blood drives throughout the year. During FY 2010/11, 351 Lenovo Conduct in 2009 that applies to all employees worldwide and which is an integral part of our employees donated 309 pints of blood, ethics and compliance program. The Code demonstrates Lenovo’s commitment to which will save as many as 960 lives. a culture of uncompromising integrity and helps employees determine when to seek 25 Lenovo voluntarily conducted Radiation Awareness training to global manufacturing employees following the 9.0 earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan on March 11, 2011, as a result of cooling failure at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant. In addition, Lenovo conducted radiation measurement testing at our internal manufacturing facilities and at major ODMCM locations. This process is to both ensure that our global manufacturing employees are educated on radiation awareness safety and provide information for any potential customer Fostering a safe and healthy working environment for Lenovo employees located in more than inquiries regarding our products. With over 23,000 units tested, there were no recorded levels of 60 countries is essential to our core values and our ability to attract, retain and motivate the contamination in our manufacturing facilities or shipped products. best talent. At our field locations Lenovo offers safety training, such as Emergency Evacuation, Office Safety Lenovo is committed to creating and maintaining a workplace that provides for optimal employee and Ergonomics training and has developed a comprehensive global internal website and health and safety. This commitment is reflected in Lenovo’s corporate health and safety policy, tools to assist employees in assessing their work environment. One of the tools is a dedicated which focuses on creating and maintaining a workplace that provides for the health and “AskOHS” e-mail account available to all employees that enables them to obtain safety and safety of all employees and reinforces the importance at every location in which the company health direction and support. does business. Full support of employee health and safety through education, prevention and controls is vital to our innovation, productivity and continual improvement. Every employee and contractor of Employee Wellness Lenovo must follow this policy and report any safety and health concerns to Lenovo management. Informational resources are made available to assist employees on various wellness matters and disease prevention. Health and safety information/requirements are available and shared with non-Lenovo employees on a needs basis. In support of business continuity planning, Lenovo has Health and Safety Performance developed and activated comprehensive pandemic plans and procedures to limit the potential There were no significant accidents involving Lenovo employees, fires that resulted in property impact of health-related concerns, such as the H1N1 virus. damage or regulatory violations at any of our locations in which we do business. Additionally, the company engages in a number of comprehensive wellness initiatives, and Standardizing Lenovo’s Global Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) organization across the provides employee assistance programs and medical consulting services to promote overall company’s operations has helped establish world-class standards and procedures to ensure employee health. For instance, medical screening services offered in a number of China locations, employee workplace safety and prevent work-related injuries and illnesses. Lenovo is OHSAS eye care services offered in Pondicherry, India and a PowerUp Fitness Center available to U.S. – 18001 certified from Bureau Veritas, a leading independent certification body, at all global Morrisville, NC employees are just a few examples to motivate employees to engage in a health manufacturing locations. and fitness lifestyle. Examples of other employee health promotion offerings include health risk assessments, influenza immunization clinics and a wellness program that rewards employees for The OHS team conducts rigorous corporate, internal audits and self-assessments to ensure engaging in healthy behaviors and activities. compliance while continually driving processes and program improvements. We monitor injuries and accidents and perform investigations to prevent reoccurrence. We are proud that a number of local, national and “best in class” awards have recognized Lenovo in consecutive years dating back to 2005 at our China and North America facilities for wellness For 2010, Lenovo’s manufacturing incident rates were well below comparable industry averages. programs and low work-related injury and illness rates by government agencies. Specifically, the total incident rate was 0.41 and lost time rate was 2.06. Acquired companies may gather and report data in a different manner relative to the sector standard. As part of Lenovo’s Shenzhen (LIPC), China facility was recognized with its sixth consecutive “Safety Lenovo’s OHSAS 18001 change management process, OHS is proactively involved in business Outstanding Contribution” award from the FuTian District Safety Government Committee for integration efforts to ensure consistent implementation across all global manufacturing locations. 2010. This award is noteworthy because Lenovo was one of only 57 recognized companies and This would include performance metrics such as incident rates. institutions out of over 5,000 submissions to the government as a responsible corporate citizen, actively taking care of employees and the community. Training The United States Fulfillment Center (USFC), in Whitsett, North Carolina was recognized by the North Carolina Department of Labor with their third consecutive annual Gold Award while Global manufacturing employees receive mandatory safety training and are required to follow the Morrisville, North Carolina headquarters location was recognized with its sixth consecutive all Lenovo safety and health requirements. At all manufacturing and select field locations, safety Gold Award for accident prevention in 2010. In addition, both the USFC and Monterrey, Mexico committee-type programs have been established. The goal of these committees is to provide locations received the “Highly Protected Risk” award from Factory Mutual Global Commercial a mechanism for employees to bring forward potential safety concerns and participate in the Insurance Company by following FM Global property loss prevention programs such as fire necessary corrective action. protection system testing and emergency planning. 26 Lenovo is committed to protecting human rights. We are a signatory to the United Nations Most recently Lenovo has implemented Learning@Lenovo, a suite of new employee development Global Compact, which is a public-private strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to initiatives that reaches executives, people managers and individual contributors through three aligning operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human global programs (Leading@Lenovo, Managing@Lenovo and Contributing@Lenovo). rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. As a signatory, we support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure that our business practices are All Lenovo employees receive ongoing training in areas such as culture, compliance, information not complicit in human rights abuses. security and performance management during the year. One hundred percent of employees receive performance and career reviews at least annually. Human Rights in the Supply Chain Lenovo is also a member of the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and is Mentoring an adherent to the EICC Code of Conduct internally and for our supply chain. The Code Lenovo also supports an active mentoring program. Mentoring relationships are an excellent way safeguards the working and environmental conditions, which include the area of human rights, to grow an employee’s skills and knowledge in order to develop his or her full potential. Mentees of our employees and suppliers. To that end, Lenovo has established strong EICC-compliant and mentors both gain from participation in a mentoring relationship. Mentees can increase operations and tracks independent third-party EICC audits. The EICC Code of Conduct provides guidance in five critical areas including: Labor, Health & Safety, Environment, Ethics their understanding in the targeted subject area, and mentors can sharpen their leadership and and Management Systems. coaching skills. To aid employees in the mentoring process, Lenovo provides an online book, “A Guide for Mentoring at Lenovo”. Specifically, Lenovo executes EICC efforts with over 99 percent of our procurement spend, and 100 percent of these targeted suppliers have agreed to comply with the EICC. This includes Lenovo welcomes new employees with the Lenovo New Employee Orientation Program, which tracking suppliers for annual self-assessments using EICC-approved providers and tools, helps educate new employees on a wide variety of topics, including Lenovo’s history, culture, bi-annual third-party audits, audit reports and tracking of action items. business practices and policies as well as all of the tools and resources available to employees. In addition to conducting supplier education and training on EICC code/compliance, Lenovo Lenovo encourages cross-cultural development by means of diverse experiences. Development has partnered with the EICC on supplier training events relating to topics such as supply is strengthened by increased frequency and quality of the career development discussions that chain capability building, material extraction, working hours, EICC eLearning modules, carbon employees have with their managers. The new program Managing@Lenovo has a particular reporting and energy efficiency. focus on improving career development discussions. The primary source of career development Lenovo has partnered with the EICC and member companies on supplier training events in support comes from an employee’s immediate manager. China to increase awareness and assist China-based suppliers to understand and conform to the EICC Code of Conduct. As managers learn to better support their employees’ career development aspirations, they will be guided to help employees understand that career development happens not only in moving Lenovo participates in the EICC validated audit program and requests suppliers to conduct up the hierarchy, but also by moving laterally and improving growth and mastery within one’s EICC audits on their facilities. Corrective action plans are put in place and tracked to closure for current role as well. We also encourage employees to take ownership of their careers and utilize any non-conforming areas. Also, Lenovo has strengthened its supplier performance process to the strategy of a mix of diverse experiences, relationship building and educational components reward and/or penalize performance as it relates to sustainability efforts. to aid in further development. Conflict Minerals Lenovo’s strategy and performance on this issue is discussed in the Global Supply Chain section of this report (section 4.2). Lenovo employees volunteered more than 280 hours in support of Habitat for Humanity in the local Morrisville, NC area. Habitat for Personal Educational Development Humanity is an international nonprofit organization devoted to building “simple, Lenovo University is the company’s personal educational development initiative designed to decentand affordable” housing. Homes are built give employees the opportunity to acquire core competencies and skills needed for the future, using volunteer labor and are sold at no profit. while helping Lenovo retain a competitive global work force. With a growing list of innovative educational offerings, Lenovo University offers various programs ranging from online training to individual development planning. 27 Lenovo recognizes the importance that employees and their families place on a comprehensive will include a health risk assessment, health coaching, expanded nutrition and fitness online benefits package. To ensure that Lenovo can attract and retain high-quality talent in the tools, wellness seminars and other educational content, an incentive program designed to foster competitive technology marketplace, a variety of benefits are offered that are designed to aid in participation in the programs, and a free employee membership in Lenovo’s PowerUp Fitness managing and protecting the physical and financial well-being of employees and their families. facility located at the Morrisville, North Carolina campus. Outside the U.S., Lenovo currently Benefit packages are designed to follow these strategic guidelines: offers a variety of wellness programs, including fitness facility discounts, health coaching, stress and lifestyle management programs, and access to health educational material. Lenovo’s • To position Lenovo competitively within the local marketplace. long-term wellness goals include the expansion of its wellness brand and related programs • To align with and support Lenovo business and cultural strategy. globally under one comprehensive umbrella, where appropriate. • To be differentiated through Lenovo’s commitment to wellness. To achieve these goals, Lenovo must be flexible and consider varying customs, practices, Income Protection legal requirements and employee expectations around the world to design impactful In the event that an employee is unable to work due to illness or injury, Lenovo provides for benefits programs. protection of income in many countries. These benefits may take the form of salary continuation for a period of time and generally supplement government-provided benefits. For longer periods of illness or injury, Lenovo commonly provides additional disability benefits. Health Benefits Private health benefits are offered in many countries to supplement government-provided Retirement or Post-Employment Savings health care. These arrangements often permit employees to provide coverage for dependents, including spouses, domestic partners, children or other family members. Employees may share To supplement the income of employees and survivors after retirement or separation from in the cost of these benefits, especially when coverage for dependents is available. However, Lenovo, a variety of savings programs are offered. These programs may be mandatory or Lenovo shoulders the majority of these costs as an investment in the well-being of employees. voluntary, depending on legal and marketplace considerations. It is quite common for programs to have both an employee and employer contribution component, with the latter signifying Wellness is a critical component of Lenovo’s benefits programs. Lenovo believes that a Lenovo’s willingness to make a current investment to provide future security for employees successful wellness program can result in benefits that go way beyond the financial measure and their families. It should be noted that even during volatile economic times and company of reduced medical costs, with more productive employees and less absenteeism most notable performance, Lenovo did not reduce its contribution levels to employee retirement programs. among them. “Live Well with Lenovo”, the Lenovo wellness brand, will be re-launched in 2012 as Lenovo begins a strategic partnership with a new vendor to introduce a redesigned and comprehensive wellness and incentive program in the U.S. Components of the U.S. program Lenovo Japan is focused on how Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) can Lenovo is a leading member of InterElles, a woman-focused network created 10 years ago play a role in innovative approaches to education, environmental affairs and entrepreneurship. by large technology companies Air Liquide, AREVA, CEA, EDF, Orange, GE, IBM France, In 2010 Lenovo Japan announced the U.dream project directed toward schools. Among the Schlumberger and Thales. The group’s objective is to share best practices to ensure diversity within teams in the technology environment and facilitate the hiring and retention many projects U.dream has been involved with during the year, one of the most notable of female talent. Lenovo contributed to the annual conference on March 8th, 2011, which has been the “Innovative Schools Project”. This project works collaboratively with Microsoft® was attended by 600 people. Lenovo will to drive and promote the use of ICT in lead the organization’s next conference. innovative curriculums for next generation InterElles is a French initiative that is part educational methods. Lenovo donated 60 of the WILL global activities. ThinkPad X220 Tablets to the University of Tokyo and also 40 tablets to a public high school in Toshima Ward. 28 We believe that our employees are the most valuable strategic resource at Lenovo. We Work Environment recognize the importance of each unique individual and their need to be recognized frequently and rewarded fairly. A fully engaged workforce is the key to our differentiation and exceptional Lenovo is committed to providing a work environment free from harassment, including harassment business performance. Lenovo believes, and invests heavily, in the concept of Total Rewards based on race, color, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, national origin, ethnicity, which consists of five key elements: compensation, benefits, work-life, performance and sexual orientation, sex, age, disability, veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law. recognition, and development and career opportunities. We believe that, collectively, these five Click here to see Lenovo’s Employee Health and Safety Policy. elements are critical to attract, motivate and retain our most valuable strategic resource. Lenovo’s culture is to tie pay to performance. We believe that exceptional individual performance Employee Complaint Process will support and drive exceptional business performance, which will result in exceptional pay for individuals. All “Key Performance Indicators” throughout the organization are linked to a Lenovo provides guidance to its employees regarding how to raise questions or concerns about business strategy. any aspect of their work at Lenovo, and has established clear processes to support these reporting channels. This guidance is communicated in several ways, including through Lenovo’s In terms of our pay practices, we carefully monitor and evaluate market trends in each of our Code of Conduct and the Diversity and Non-Discrimination Policy. geographic locations to ensure that we remain competitive. Our culture allows us to react quickly when we see trends changing. Click here to see Lenovo’s Commitment to Diversity and Nondiscrimination. In addition to maintaining a competitive wage, we have a comprehensive and globally consistent performance management and bonus program that we call the P3 Bonus Program. P3 stands Employees are directed to report to their managers, Human Resources, the Ethics and for Priorities, Performance and Pay and is closely aligned to what we call The Lenovo Way. The Compliance Office, or the local Lenovo Legal Department any information pertaining to: Lenovo Way contains two key elements: delivering on our commitments and taking ownership ◊ Fraud by or against Lenovo in everything we do. ◊ Unethical business conduct Reward and recognition are very important at Lenovo, so much so that we also encourage every business unit leader to develop supplemental programs, based on broad global guidelines, which ◊ A violation of legal or regulatory requirements reinforce frequent and continuous recognition of successful collaborative efforts and exceptional ◊ Substantial and specific danger to health and safety performance within their organizations. ◊ A violation of Lenovo’s corporate policies and guidelines, in particular its Code of Conduct Lenovo has a clear nonretaliation policy, and will not tolerate harassment, retaliation, discrimination or other adverse action against an employee who: ◊ Makes an internal report in good faith ◊ Provides information or assists in an investigation regarding such a report; or ◊ Files, testifies or participates in a legal or administrative proceeding related to such matters Privacy Lenovo is committed to protecting the personal data of our employees, customers, resellers Managers are required to report and help resolve any suspected violation of the nonretaliation and others. Corporate strategies, policies and guidelines support this commitment to protect policy. Complaints of alleged retaliation will be promptly addressed and investigated. personal information. Managers and employees are responsible for fulfilling the following general principles for collecting, using, disclosing, storing, accessing, transferring or otherwise Reports of inappropriate behavior, policy violations or alleged retaliation will, to the extent processing personal information. permitted by law and consistent with an effective investigation, be kept anonymous and confidential. Click here to see Lenovo’s Data Privacy Policy. 29 • Lenovo’s Occupational Health and Safety organization is in the process of pursuing EICC auditor certification to further align with its current ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 auditor certifications and internal audit process. All manufacturing operations are in compliance with the latest international environmental, health and safety standards. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has been a key component of the assessment process 5. Procurement since 2007. Lenovo Global Procurement is responsible for buying products such as computer parts and Focus areas for the year were in the key areas of logistics, GSC site operations, packaging, services. Lenovo strives to balance cost, quality, technology and innovation to provide the production supplier engagement and procurement. Details on each area are provided below. greatest value to our customers. The chief procurement officer has mandated the highest levels of ethical standards through our formally stated core values, principles and practices (http://www.lenovo.com/global_procurement/us/en/index.html). 1. Logistics Lenovo continued its membership in SmartWay, a voluntary partnership with the U.S. Environmental Current Procurement Activity Protection Agency (EPA). Through this partnership, Lenovo continues to measure and improve our Canada and U.S. shipping efficiency. The lessons learned through SmartWay also transfer to other • Procurement sustainability efforts covered approximately 99 percent of our procurement parts of our global operations. In addition, the Global Logistics team has continued to drive from spend and all high-risk areas. higher-carbon air shipments to more environmentally friendly ocean shipments. In FY 2009/10, • Currently 100 percent of these suppliers have executed formal agreements to comply with Lenovo improved its notebook ocean shipments by 18 percent. Finally, the Logistics team completed the EICC, 97 percent have conducted self-assessments on time and 76 percent have a risk assessment of its China shipping suppliers for EICC compliance. conducted audits on time. • Procurement has conducted over the past two years 12 training events, several jointly 2. GSC Site Operations with the EICC on Awareness, E-Tasc, Audit and other topics covering hundreds of suppliers. Lenovo conducts regular Occupational Health, Safety and Environmental assessments at Audit findings are mostly occurring in Labor and Health & Safety areas with fewest findings our major contract manufacturing locations to ensure high levels of compliance and social in the Environmental area. responsibility. As part of these reviews we also assess the effectiveness of our suppliers’ • In FY 2010/11 we tested our program semi-annually to ensure that we were achieving our management systems. internally stated targets. Compliance testing results and any corrective actions are summarized and communicated to the chief procurement officer. 3. Packaging This year Lenovo started a pilot run for a new lightweight pallet. The pilot run is ongoing with an estimated savings of approximately 1,000 tons of wood per year. This materials replacement China Health Management Program Wins Award initiative started in January 2011 and is estimated to achieve significant cost savings per unit while One of Lenovo’s key manufacturing sites has been honored achieving energy, climate and materials resource load reduction objectives. for the outstanding health programs it runs for employees. The Occupational Health and Safety organization at the Lenovo 4. Production Supplier Engagement Shenzhen (LIPC) site won the International Corporate Health Management Excellence Performance Award. • Lenovo completed third-party EICC Key EICC Focus Areas: Lenovo is participating in new This award was given at the 2010 Shanghai Expo Enterprise audits at six manufacturing facilities Health Management Summit Forum, an event organized by the in China, Mexico and India. Results of and on-going EICC projects. Lenovo has conducted EICC Chinese Medical Doctor Association and Health Maintenance these audits were considered strong Carbon Reporting programs to use a standard approach Organization (CMDA-HMO). The event was held in Shanghai by the third-party auditors along with to measuring, reporting and reducing carbon emissions in on June 17, 2010. Lenovo was honored for its wideprompt corrective measures provided the global electronics supply chain–http://www.eicc.info/ ranging wellness programs, the health/medical consulting for items identified during the audits. CarbonReportingSystem.shtml. We also are involved with services offered employees, preventive-medical programs such as flu vaccinations, and growing focus with EICC Minerals Extraction programs to well-organized emergency plans. This award for LIPC comes after winning local awards for • To ensure continuous improvement, trace, audit and certify the supply chain with respect to three consecutive years from the local health management department in Shenzhen. Lenovo is currently conducting conflict materials–http://www.eicc.info/initiatives02.shtml ongoing EICC validation audits of The Forum honored more than 20 enterprises with the award. Among the other organizations honored were GE China, Motorola China, Abbott China and Huawei. these facilities on a periodic basis. 31 We continue to promote supplier diversity programs through annual strategies, procurement Framework: buyer training and community outreach. Each year we set goals to increase the amount of our diverse supplier business including small business, women-owned business, minority • We enable communities to do more through social investment programs that support a owned business and other diverse segments. We train our procurement buyers annually to wide range of programs, including those focused on education, research, ensure continual focus, to provide tools to locate diverse suppliers and to drive identification of entrepreneurship, disaster relief and regional community outreach. opportunities at sub-category levels. We engage the business community through partnerships • We evaluate the effectiveness of each investment against predefined goals upon completion. with the Carolinas Minority Supplier Development Council and local chambers of commerce. • Lenovo provides assistance through financial contributions, equipment donations and Also, in FY 2010/11 we increased our procurement staffing to further support diversity programs. employee volunteer hours. • Regional offices establish extensive relationships with their local communities and regional non-governmental organizations. Developments for the Period: During FY 2010/11, Lenovo donated ThinkPad laptops to IT-oLogy, a U.S.-based corporate and college-supported nonprofit consortium led by Blue Cross Blue Shield (BC/BS) of South Carolina. The consortium was formed in 2008 to encourage young people in South Carolina to pursue a career Lenovo annually commits up to one percent of its pretax income to programs and initiatives that in Information Technology (IT) while addressing a serve society. Therefore, the size of our programs will grow as the company grows. The more looming shortage of qualified IT professionals in the success we achieve, the more we will be able to share that success with those around us. Our state. The ThinkPad laptops were donated to support investments are distributed across two primary program areas: Next Generation Hope Fund a series of IT training camp projects being conducted (which support education investments and disaster recovery) and Outreach, Collaborations by the consortium. The first camp benefiting from and Partnerships. the donation was the Create IT Camp held in Columbia, South Carolina in partnership with the University of South Carolina. This camp was designed to motivate high-achieving South Carolina high school students with a proven record of accomplishment to pursue a career in IT. Lenovo also supported many education initiatives in the United States during FY 2010/11 with donations totaling approximately US$100,000. Examples include Lenovo’s partnership with the University of North Carolina system (UNC Chapel Hill and Appalachian State University) and its Lenovo’s Next Generation Hope Fund is helping redefine how Lenovo and our employees donation of US$15,000 to support anthropology and astronomy research and awareness. Lenovo support the communities where we live and do business worldwide. We support the needs of our donated US$38,000 to the University of Oregon College of Education to facilitate research communities through select investment opportunities that leverage our innovation leadership initiatives, enabling post-doctoral students to evaluate curriculum and school leadership using and global culture. To help ensure program success, we evaluate the effectiveness of each pen input and mobile technologies. Lenovo also partnered with the Stratford Friends School and investment against predefined goals upon completion. Lenovo provides assistance through donated US$15,000 to research how the use of touch-screen and other assistive technology financial contributions, equipment donations and employee volunteer hours. addresses learning disabilities and contributes to improving learning outcomes. In February 2011, Lenovo partnered with RTL Foundation in Germany to donate Idea-branded Objectives: PCs to support the RTL Kinderhäuser project. Since the spring of 2009, RTL has established 10 Kinderhäuser houses in Germany and orchestrated various fundraising activities throughout the • Advance, enhance and extend education at all levels. year to support disadvantaged children. Lenovo has also supported RTL’s fundraising marathon • Consider each opportunity based on its unique merits. the last two years. • Donate equipment, provide financial contributions. • Lend our expertise to schools and related organizations across all global markets. • Support global education investments in both K-12 and higher education. 33 Education Research Initiative As the world’s #1 PC maker for the educational field, Lenovo ships millions of laptops, desktops • Instructional Innovation Grants given to the Innovation Center at University of North and tablets to schools and universities around the world. In order to create more shared value Carolina, Chapel Hill; applied to technology-enabled strategies for promoting with the global education community, Lenovo founded the Education Research Initiative interdependent learning among students in either small or large classes; promoting new (ERI). ERI was launched in May 2010 as an international “venture philanthropy” effort aimed learning opportunities across international boundaries using technologies; and improving at researching how technology can improve learning outcomes for students and increase the learning opportunities in course sections with 75 or more students. operational efficiency of educational institutions. • Sponsorship of Tiger Woods Education Centers, in which curriculum focuses on career Conducted in partnership with Intel® and Microsoft®, ERI provides grants to research exploration in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) and communications, projects focused on primary, secondary and tertiary educational institutions, as well as nonand provides mentoring and teacher training. Students experience a technology-rich, governmental organizations. While projects range in size, scope and setting, they all focus on innovative and highly motivated environment with activities such as building and helping students and educators leverage the power of digital technology to enhance learning programming robots, exploring space and creating their own films. and increase efficiency. • Development of the Taxonomy of Academic Technology, a tool that outlines the full In conjunction with RAND Corporation, Lenovo developed the ERI Annual Indicators Survey, spectrum of technology uses in academics, which is the result of ERI formative findings a set of project indicators distributed to grant recipients to aid them in honing their vision and Lenovo’s experience in deploying over 4 million seats of 1:1 computing. and activities. The survey provides transparent measurements which track progress using quantitative and qualitative instruments. • Sponsorship of a programming contest at the Rose-Hulman Institute, designed to encourage student teams to develop applications that showcase the benefits of Key ERI projects in FY2010/11 included: touchscreen interaction using the Lenovo IdeaPad ® S10-3t Tablet/netbook. The winning team received $3,800 in prize money and a Lenovo touch-enabled netbook. • An inaugural Student Global Leadership Institute (SGLI) in coordination with Punahou School and non-governmental organizations, such as Edward E. Ford Foundation, the • Partnership with the Stratford Friends School in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania, to provide Freeman Foundation and the Luke Center for Chinese Studies. The Institute is designed to IdeaPad S10-3t products for 7th and 8th grade students as a key educational tool in the develop a community of international youth leaders who understand and are engaged in multisensory academic program for students with language-based learning differences. shared global challenges and who galvanize positive social change; the event’s 2010 theme was “Water Security and Sustainability,” followed by the 2011 theme of “Energy”. • Partnership with University of Massachusetts, Amherst and National University of Ireland, Students from 15 schools across the U.S., China, Japan, Jordan and Singapore Galway to provide PC technology, guest lecturer and course guidance for senior seminar participated in the Institute. Effective Decision Making in the Age of Cloud Computing. The course is a prototype for future classes and field test for high-tech classrooms, using state-of-the-art technologies in an environment similar to what many students will find when they enter the workplace. • We are letting the sun light their conference rooms. Celebrating Earth Day 2010 Lenovo’s green initiatives • We are opting for video conferencing when air travel is not a necessity. around the world. • We are replacing conventional light bulbs with new energy-efficient models and installing Lenovo’s environmental commitment is just as important within our own office walls as it is timers on lighting systems. throughout the communities we serve, informing our corporate values and our workplace • We are rolling out recycling programs to collect paper and obsolete electronics. practices. From Monterrey to Zagreb, from Paris to Shenzhen, Lenovo employees have taken • We are working from home on select days, especially during seasons with high pollution levels. the initiative and spearheaded efforts to help our company maintain its high environmental standards. • We are encouraging the use of duplex printing and discouraging the use of personal desktop printers. What are our people doing to keep Lenovo green? • We are urging co-workers to turn off all PCs and monitors at the end of each workday. • We are replacing energy-sapping CRT monitors with low-power TFTs. 34 Global Disaster Assistance Philippines Lenovo has a longstanding practice of assisting communities around the world when disaster • Lenovo Philippines signed on as Technology Partner of the 41st Women’s National strikes. Lenovo and our employees are committed to helping those less fortunate and lending a Collegiate Athletic Association (WNCAA) season. The WNCAA is a multi-sports league helping hand to those who have difficulty providing for themselves. During FY 2010/11, Lenovo extending over eight months with participants from 19 top universities and colleges. and our employees supported various global disaster relief efforts including relief efforts in Japan, The league opened at the Ninoy Aquino Stadium on August 7, 2010, with this year’s Mexico and New Zealand. In response to the March, 2011 magnitude 9.1 earthquake and tsunami attendance expected to exceed 150,000. in Japan, Lenovo donated US$1,000,000 to the Japan Red Cross to support disaster relief efforts. In addition, Lenovo employees worldwide donated US$22,645 and Lenovo Japan donated US$11,700 for a total of US$34,345 to support ASHINAGA, a Japan-based nonprofit that provides Americas financial and emotional support to orphans in Japan. Lenovo employees, partnering with the • Lenovo launched a matching gifts program Triangle Community Foundation, have donated over US$20,000 to support relief efforts in Japan. to facilitate a corporate donation of 50% of eligible U.S. employee contributions made through the Lenovo Employees Care Campaign, the annual U.S. employee charitable giving campaign. • Lenovo provided a technology sponsorship to Kenan Fellows Program for Curriculum and Leadership Development, enabling 49 North Carolina K-12 public school teachers selected as Kenan Fellows for the 2012 cohort with a ThinkPad. This competitive fellowship has been China designed to enhance curriculum relevance for the benefit of all students; support collaboration • Lenovo China invested in Venture Philanthropy, an innovative approach focused on among teachers, business and universities; grass-roots NGOs in China. The goal is to increase their capability and skill building in and promote growth opportunities for teachers the areas of strategic planning, IT, HR and financial management, provide grants to and the teaching profession. support NGO development, build a platform to enhance their awareness and bridge further cooperation. Since 2009, 6 million RMB in financial assistance was donated to • Lenovo employees donated over 500 32 NGOs across the country that were dedicated to education, environmental volunteer hours to help Kramden Institute, a protection, narrowing the digital divide and poverty alleviation. Durham, North Carolina based nonprofit, refurbish more than 215 used computers that • China’s urban-rural digital divide was considerably much higher than the global Kramden will give to school children without average, measuring 0.64, resulting from the unbalanced regional development in computer access in their homes. Lenovo China. In 2003, Lenovo China launched the “Countryside Distance Education employees helped distribute an additional 250 program”; kicked off “Live your Dream – Computer Going to the Countryside” program computers to children of U.S. military service in 2004; and then upgraded to “Live your Dream – New Countryside Strategy” in men and women who met Kramden’s program 2007. As a result, in 2008 Lenovo China launched more than 300 kinds of computer criteria. products specifically designed for rural users, helping more than 4 million rural users gain access to IT, providing professional tutoring teams to 13,700 counties and towns • Lenovo employees at the Morrisville, North Carolina location collected almost 4,000 nationwide, and spreading computer knowledge to more than 20 million rural pounds of nonperishable food items in FY 2010/11 to benefit the Food Bank of Eastern residents. Established in 2009, Lenovo’s Youth Public Entrepreneurship program is and Central North Carolina, and also donated over 1,370 employee volunteer hours to one of China’s leading philanthropic initiatives. This program, which targets college support various community service projects. students in China, encourages youth entrepreneurship in China’s public welfare organizations. This innovative program assists young people building careers in public Europe and Africa welfare while helping to make China’s public welfare enterprises more vibrant and dynamic. Lenovo China offers its professional resources to assist in training, public • Lenovo Western Europe’s partnership with PlaNet Finance aims at selecting practice, venture capital and other skills so that young college students interested in innovative projects from young entrepreneurs in France and Europe, promoting careers in public entrepreneurship can successfully achieve their goals. Since the micro financing in business environments, and optimizing technical and financial program’s introduction, over 1.2 million young people have been engaged in support coming from diverse populations and emerging markets. discussion, 10,000 copies of social entrepreneurship proposals have been received, 500 entrepreneurial teams have participated in the competition and we have had 28 finalists. 35 • Lenovo supports South Africa’s Black Economic Empowerment (BEE). This program provide learning and play activities for children and, most of all, enable them to be was launched by the South African government to open and grow the market and part of Israeli society when they reach adulthood. Her dream came true following the assist previously disadvantaged groups in participating in this growth. The intent of BEE is training she received under the PlaNet Finance-supported Microfy program. This to govern business operations in which all suppliers are treated equally while trading. meant that Faida was able to gain the skills needed for running a children’s day care center and in August 2009 she started accepting children, mainly from refugee • In December 2010 Lenovo, partnering with the International Microfinance Award Ceremony families. A loan of EUR 525 enabled the day care center to grow and it now caters to 30 2010 organised by PlaNet Finance at the Louvre Museum in Paris, awarded Madame Faida youngsters—and all the children’s mothers are delighted by the quality of the Bakaji Tshuma with the PlaNet Finance Education Award 2010. education. Most of the children originate from Africa and are learning English, French and Click here for more details about PlaNet Finance. Hebrew, thus boosting their chances of integrating successfully into Israeli society. Thanks to the center’s success, Faida has been able to leave the two-room apartment Education Award, Sponsored by Lenovo that she shared with her sister, brother-in-law and their two sets of young twin girls Faida is a 29-year-old refugee from the Democratic Republic of Congo living in and move into a flat. Israel. Her great ambition was to run her own day care center where she could 36 37 Lenovo’s long-term, comprehensive approach to environmental management encompasses • Be an environmentally responsible neighbor in the communities where we operate and everything from site operations to product design to recycling. Lenovo has developed a series of act promptly and responsibly to correct conditions that may endanger health, safety, corporate strategies, policies and guidelines designed to support environmental responsibility. or the environment. Each manager and employee, as well as any contractor working on a Lenovo site, bears a • Provide appropriate resources to fulfill these objectives. personal obligation to Lenovo’s environmental commitments. Corporate strategies, policies and guidelines must support this commitment to leadership in Lenovo's Corporate Policy on Environmental Affairs environmental affairs. Every employee and contractor of Lenovo must follow this policy and Corporate Policy on Environmental Affairs report any environmental, health, or safety concerns to Lenovo management, who must take prompt corrective action. Lenovo is committed to exhibit leadership in environmental affairs in all of its business activities. The requirements listed below apply to all of Lenovo’s worldwide operations. Every Lenovo organization must support this policy and each manager and employee, as well as any contractor performing work on behalf of Lenovo, shall bear a personal responsibility for the following objectives: 12 Best Practices for Green IT Compliance Lenovo encourages its customers to embrace environmentally sound best practices in their selection and use of PC products by promoting the following: • Meet or exceed all applicable environmental requirements for all Lenovo activities, products, and services, including legal requirements, standards, and voluntary commitments to which • Buy ENERGY STAR® and EPEAT™ qualified hardware Lenovo subscribes. • Look for products with UL Environment’s Sustainable products certification Prevention of Pollution • Choose GREENGUARD® certified systems (tests for more than 10,000 chemical compounds) • Use sustainable business practices and processes that minimize waste and prevent pollution, conserve energy and minimize Lenovo’s carbon footprint, minimize health • Deploy power management software and safety risks, and dispose of waste safely and responsibly. • Select multi-core processors Product Environmental Leadership • Specify more efficient power supplies • Conserve natural resources by developing products and packaging that minimize materials usage, use recycled and environmentally preferable materials, and that • Use more energy-efficient displays maximize reuse and recycling opportunities at the end of the product’s life. • Request bulk packaging for large-quantity purchasing • Develop, manufacture, and market products that are energy-efficient and that minimize • Buy desktops that are both space and energy-saving their impact on the environment. • Select desktops with a noise profile that is <25dB in idle mode Continual Improvement • Recycle used PCs and peripherals • Strive to continually improve Lenovo’s environmental management system and performance. • Work with Lenovo’s supply chain to improve environmental protection and promote the • Order systems with recycled content in the system and the packaging use of environmentally preferable technologies. 38 • 2008 – In October 2008, the Lenovo YangTian desktop won China Information World’s “Green IT Product Award”. • 2008 – In December 2008, the Lenovo ThinkVision L196 wide monitor won PC Magazine’s” Green Choice Award”. • 2009 – Lenovo Norway awarded Eco-Lighthouse certification. Lenovo is an innovative, international PC technology company that has a history of being recognized for our environmental performance and leadership. Following is a summarized • 2009 – In January 2009, Greenpeace produced the report “Green Electronics: The chronology of our environmental accomplishments. search continues”, and awarded the Lenovo ThinkVision L2440x wide monitor as the “Best Product Overall”. • 2001 – Lenovo China achieved ISO 14001 certification. • 2009 – In May 2009, the ThinkCentre® M58p Eco Ultra Small Form Factor and • 2002 and 2003 – Lenovo’s desktop commercial PCs and desktop consumer PCs ThinkCentre M58e desktops were “GREENTECH approved” by PC Magazine. awarded the supreme award for PC design, the “2002 Autumn Innovative PC Award”. • 2009 – In July 2009, the ThinkPad T400s was “GREENTECH approved” by PC Magazine. ◊ Among them, the Kaitian 6800 PC pioneered the PC miniaturization design in China, • 2009 – In August 2009, the IdeaPad U350 was “GREENTECH approved” by PC Magazine. with the use of plastics and hardware materials less than 50 percent of those used in traditional PCs. • 2009 – In September 2009, the ThinkPad T400s (Multitouch) was “GREENTECH approved” by PC Magazine. • 2004 and 2005 – Lenovo China received the “Green Product” award for the desktop PC from the China Environmental Protection Foundation. Lenovo also received the • 2009 – In December 2009, PCMagazine listed the GREENTECH Approved ThinkPad “Green Innovation” award for the Lenovo Innovation Center building. X200 Tablet (Multitouch) notebook as one of the “Best Green Products of 2009”. • 2005 – All Lenovo’s commercial products met China’s energy savings targets. • 2010 – In January 2010, the Lenovo T100 G10 and T400 G10 servers achieved China CEC certification. • 2006 – Lenovo successfully completed a comprehensive integration of legacy environmental management systems. • 2010 – In January 2010, Lenovo’s ThinkCentre A70z All-in-One PC was awarded the new TCO Certified All-in-One PCs label. • 2007 – Lenovo introduced a complete line of notebook and desktop computers complying with the latest U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR® requirements. • 2010 – In March Lenovo was awarded the 2000th Nordic Ecolabel. In the first step 12 laptop computers, including 9 ThinkPad models were recognized by the Nordic Ecolabel. • 2008 – In May 2008, the Lenovo ThinkVision® L174 and L197 wide monitors won seven awards: • 2010 – In June 2010, TCO awarded the M90z the prestigious TCO Certified Edge designation. ◊ “China IT Coalition” awarded by Computer World • 2010 – In July 2010, Lenovo was selected as a constituent stock of the Hang Seng ◊ “Green Energy-Efficient Product” awarded by CWEEK Corporate Sustainability Index Series. ◊ “Strongly Recommended Product” awarded by CWEEK • 2010 – In July 2010, IdeaPad Y460 has achieved the TCO Certified designation. ◊ “Green Power-Saving Model” awarded by PC Info • 2011 – In February 2011, the ThinkPad T420 achieved the highest UL Environment ◊ “Green Energy-Efficient Product” awarded by IT 168 Gold rating. ◊ “Green Certificate” awarded by PC Magazine ◊ “Editor Recommended Product” awarded by CHIP Lenovo’s business model is based on developing and manufacturing outstanding technology products. As such it is the product that forms the basis for all elements of the environmental • 2008 – In July 2008, the Lenovo YangTian A6800v desktop gained SP “Editor’s Choice strategy. Everything from product design to supplier selection, facility management, distribution Green Award”. and logistics and product life cycle management evolves from the focus on products. “Our • 2008 – In August 2008, the Lenovo ThinkVision L196 wide and L2240p wide monitors won philosophy is—we don’t want to have green products and brown products,” says Mary two awards: Jacques, senior engineer for global environmental affairs at computer maker Lenovo. ◊ “Recommended Green Product” awarded by PC Magazine “All of our products have to meet the same requirements.” – USA Today ◊ “The Energy Efficient Champion” awarded by PC Magazine 39 Lenovo strives to show that the effective use of more efficient Information and Communication 3. Green Product Packaging Technology (ICT) equipment can deliver tremendous environmental results not only for the Information Technology (IT) industry and PC technology users, but also for the planet. Lenovo reduces the volume of packaging through implementing the use of recycled and Lenovo’s product environmental strategy focuses on (1) energy-efficient products, (2) the recyclable material, smaller sizes of boxes and reusable bulk packaging. use of environmentally preferred materials, (3) green product packaging, and (4) energy Click here for more information about our efforts to reduce the environmental impact of our management tools. product packaging or visit http://www.lenovo.com/packaging 1. Energy-efficient Products 4. Energy Management Features Lenovo’s historical and continued focus on product energy efficiency provides a strong product Lenovo offers several innovative tools for taking control of PCs’ power consumption, determining differentiator in a market and regulatory environment that increasingly values these attributes. energy savings, reporting on the energy performance of building equipment and IT devices. With a development process that places a premium on energy efficiency, an already outstanding Lenovo PCs’ energy-efficient tools and eco-friendly features include: offering of energy-efficient IT products and internal processes in place to drive continued improvements in operational efficiency, Lenovo is well positioned to benefit from an increasing • Power Manager™ — helps optimize energy used by a running machine and saves up to demand for energy-efficient products with smaller carbon footprints. 69 percent on energy consumption per desktop, per year. Energy efficiency is a targeted attribute of the Lenovo product development process. • Cisco EnergyWise software application — allows Cisco networks to control and Improvements in product energy efficiency are consistently part of our key environmental perform energy management and enables customers to monitor, control and report on objectives and targets. Lenovo offers a full complement of ENERGY STAR® qualified laptop, the energy use of building equipment and IT devices using a Cisco EnergyWisedesktops, workstations, monitors and servers. enabled network. Click here for more information about Lenovo’s energy-efficient products or visit • Active Thermal Management — adjusts processor and fan speeds based on ambient levels. http://www.lenovo.com/energy • Dynamic Brightness Control — conserves battery by lowering LCD brightness during transient states, including startup, shutdown, log off, screen lock and screensaver mode. 2. Environmentally Preferred Materials • Hybrid Graphics — allows switching between integrated and discrete graphics, helping optimize battery life and graphics performance. Integration of environmentally preferred materials into our products is another focus for Lenovo’s product development process. Transitioning to low halogen components where feasible and • Active Directory and LANDesk® — supports remote deployment of power schemes and inclusion of post-consumer recycled content plastics continues to be key to our development global settings to allow administrators the ability to control and enforce ThinkPad strategy. Lenovo is recognized as an industry leader in using PCC and designing environmentally energy savings company-wide. sustainable products. Lenovo’s use of post-consumer recycled content and post-industrial recycled content plastics in its products exceeds 61 million pounds since early 2005. “The TCO Certified program aligns with our green design program in which we continually Lenovo is committed to incorporate some amount of PCC into every PC product and continuously improve upon: the materials that go into products, their energy efficiency and how they increase use of PCC in each product family. are properly disposed through recycling at the end of life,” said Rob Taylor, director, Click here for more information about Lenovo’s use of environmentally preferred materials or worldwide environmental affairs, Lenovo. “TCO recognizes that productivity, innovation and visit http://www.lenovo.com/materials environmental design go hand in hand, and our customers look for the label when selecting their PC technology.” – TCO Website 40 We focus and refine our strategy through highly relevant partnerships and collaboration around (click here to see Lenovo’s Corporate Environmental Policy) and Corporate Instruction on the globe. Currently, our partnering and collaboration centers on climate and energy issues. Environmental Programs. These documents establish the baseline environmental requirements Lenovo is monitoring globally and regionally the development of climate change regulations for all Lenovo operations and facilities and are endorsed by Lenovo’s CEO, Yang Yuanqing. In and voluntary commitment programs, development and impact of cap and trade programs, addition, all of our manufacturing and R&D facilities are operated within the scope of our ISO renewable energy portfolio standards and product carbon footprint and labeling requirements. 14001 registered EMS. Lenovo’s significant operational environmental impacts continue to be waste In FY 2010/11, Lenovo has been active in the energy efficiency workgroups, associations and generation and energy consumption. Objectives and targets were established for our initiatives such as: manufacturing and development facilities relative to both of these environmental aspects. • Stakeholder Advisory Group for the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Click here or go to section 2.3 to see them. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Each Lenovo manufacturing and R&D site is supported by a site Environmental Affairs Focal • Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition’s Environmental Sustainability Group Point whose role is to ensure proper implementation of Lenovo’s EMS and drive the site team to achieve the environmental objectives and targets. Similarly, our office and administrative • US EPA SmartWay Program facilities are supported by regional focal points. • Product Attribute Impact Algorithm (PAIA) Project As a responsible corporate citizen, Lenovo is proudly committed to providing leadership • Associate Member of the Climate Savers Computing Initiatives in environmental affairs in all of our business activities. Lenovo has consistently met or • Member of Coalition for Energy and Environmental Leadership in Leased Space exceeded applicable regulations around the globe. As part of the continual improvement of our environmental performance, Lenovo looks for opportunities to exceed customer and legal • United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) requirements. • PC China Energy Efficiency Standard Moreover, during the FY 2010/11, we participated in numerous voluntary environmental initiatives • Energy Saving Work Association of Chinese Institute of Electronics in an effort to reduce our impact on the environment, including those listed below. • China Energy Conservation Program Lenovo’s Voluntary Commitments • UN Global Compact (United Nations Global Compact) Lenovo joined UN Global Compact in January 2009. Lenovo’s 2010 communication on progress statement expresses a commitment to continued support of the UN Global Compact and its ten principles, identifies targets, defines performance indicators Overview of Our Footprint and measures outcomes. Lenovo’s operational footprint spans the globe. It includes research and development (R&D) • UL Environment Sustainable Products Certification centers in Yokohama, Japan; Beijing, Shanghai, Xiamen, Chengdu and Shenzhen in China; and Morrisville, U.S. Manufacturing and assembly facilities are in Beijing, Shanghai, Huiyang In early 2011, Lenovo became the first computer manufacturer to obtain UL Environment’s and Shenzhen, China; Pondicherry, India; Monterrey, Mexico and Greensboro, U.S. Sales Sustainable Products Certification to the “Gold” level for the IEEE 1680.1 standard. As part headquarters are located in Paris, Beijing, Singapore and Morrisville. Further, Lenovo has of this certification, products undergo rigorous in-house testing at Underwriters Laboratories sales and administrative offices at over 100 locations in more than 60 countries around to the IEEE 1680.1 standard, including criteria such as energy efficiency, design for the world. recycling and materials usage. Since obtaining this industry first, Lenovo has gone on In order to ensure consistent and effective management of the environmental aspects of to certify with ULE several additional models of ThinkPad laptops as well as Lenovo’s this worldwide organization, Lenovo has established a Corporate Environmental Policy full lineup of ThinkVision monitors. 41 • EPEAT™ (Electronic Products Environmental Assessment Tool) • IPC® (Association Connecting Electronics Industries) Lenovo offers a full lineup of EPEAT™ Gold rated products in many countries around the Lenovo supports IPC industry association programs for printed circuit board and electronics world. Gold rating is the highest one showing that Lenovo’s products meet all mandatory manufacturing service companies, their customers and suppliers. performance characteristics and at least 75 percent of the optional criteria. • iNEMI (International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative) • ENERGY STAR® Lenovo follows efforts to develop industry-standard approaches to BFR/PVC phase out— Many Lenovo notebook, desktop, workstation, server and monitor products satisfy and the trend toward low-halogen materials in electronics products. Lenovo is a member of even exceed the current ENERGY STAR® requirements. Lenovo also participates in rating the iNEMI Environmental Leadership Sub-Committee. Lenovo’s existing building energy performance relative to similar buildings nationwide. • ITI (Information Technology Industry Council) Lenovo’s Morrisville buildings became Energy Star® certified in 2010 which indicates that the buildings, from an energy consumption standpoint, perform better than 75 percent Lenovo has a board-level position on the ITI Environmental Leadership Council which of all similar buildings nationwide. provides guidance on key environmental issues, including recycling,energy materials and green procurement. • EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) Lenovo adopts the EICC Code of Conduct in all five critical areas: labor, health and safety, environment, management system, and ethics. Lenovo actively participates in the Environmental Sustainability group which works among other projects also on the supply chain carbon/water emission reporting system and tool. • CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Lenovo discloses its quantitative GHG emissions data, qualitative data such as risks and opportunities and climate change strategy through this worldwide public database. • WRI (World Resources Institute) Lenovo participates in a Product and Supply Chain (Scope 3) Standard Stakeholder Advisory Group for carbon footprint protocol development. • CSCI (Climate Savers Computing Initiative) Lenovo fully supports the goals of CSCI which is to promote the development, deployment and adoption of smart PC technologies that improve PC power efficiency and inactive state power consumption. • R2 (Responsible Recycling) Lenovo follows the development of implementation activities and uses electronics recyclers that comply with this standard. • CECP (China Energy Conservation Program) Lenovo belongs to the companies that have the largest number of products certified by CECP. adopt-a-highway • CELP (China Environmental Labeling Program) The North Carolina adopt-a-highway program is aimed at keeping North Carolina clean Many Lenovo products are certified by CELP, an initiative assessing electronic products in and green, as well as reducing the cost associated with maintaining the state’s roadways. relation to environmental criteria such as reduction/elimination of environmentally sensitive Last year the United States Fulfillment Center (USFC) in Whitsett, NC adopted a 2.1 mile materials, product longevity/life extension, high energy efficiency/energy conservation, stretch of Rock Creek Parkway located adjacent to the facility. As a part of the program, end-of-life management, etc. volunteers from the USFC meet quarterly during non-working hours to pick up litter and recycling along the roadway. We are proud to be part of this program and hope it has not • VESA (Video Electronics Standards Association) only improved the area we maintain, but has also helped our employees think twice about Lenovo is leading the industry and is actively involved in the development of energy-efficient littering and develop a better appreciation for the environment as a whole. interface standards for monitors (mercury-free, low halogen). 42 Green Programs Many Lenovo products meet the requirements of the following environmental programs: To support Lenovo’s emissions reduction commitments where actual energy reductions are not • UL Environment’s Sustainable Products Certification: In early technically or economically feasible, Lenovo has partnered with NextEra Energy Resources 2011 Lenovo became the first computer manufacturer to obtain UL to carbon balance a portion of our electricity and steam usage by purchasing Green-e Certified Environment’s Sustainable Products Certification to the “Gold” level Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) through the company’s innovative EarthEra program. for the IEEE 1680.1 standard. As part of this certification, products undergo rigorous in-house testing at Underwriters Laboratories to the Lenovo initially committed to purchasing over 10 million kilowatt-hours of electricity per year IEEE 1680.1 standard, including criteria such as energy efficiency, for three years. This will help avoid over 15,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide over those three design for recycling and materials usage. Since obtaining this years. In addition, 100 percent of the proceeds from Lenovo’s purchase of RECs will be directed industry first, Lenovo has gone on to certify with ULE several to the EarthEra Renewable Energy Trust and used by NextEra Energy Resources to build new additional models of ThinkPad laptops as well as Lenovo’s full lineup of renewable energy facilities in the United States. ThinkVision monitors. Click here to view the certificates for RECs retired by Lenovo to date or visit • Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT)™: http://www.lenovo.com/climate Created by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the nonprofit Greener Electronics Council, EPEAT™ rates computers and Lenovo also has chosen to offset part of the direct emissions associated with the operation of monitors based on 51 criteria over eight categories that cover toxics owned vehicles and fuels we burn on site. Therefore, Lenovo purchased 3,000 wind carbon reduction, recycled content, energy efficiency, ease of recycling, product longevity, company environmental performance, product offsets from NextEra Energy Resources Capricorn Ridge Wind Energy Center project in Texas, takeback and recycling programs and packaging. Computers and USA. This will help avoid 3,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide. Lenovo has committed to purchase monitors are awarded a rating of Bronze, Silver or Gold based on the same amount for FY 2011/12. their performance. Gold-rated computers meet all required criteria plus at least 75 percent of the optional criteria that apply to the product type being registered. • ENERGY STAR®: ENERGY STAR® is a joint program between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy conceived to promote energy efficiency and reduced Greenhouse Gas emissions in hardware of all kinds. Products meeting certain standards earn an ENERGY STAR® label. Such labeling identifies Lenovo manages the environmental elements of its operations through a global Environmental and promotes energy-efficient products and helps customers decide Management System (EMS) which is ISO 14001 certified and covers Lenovo’s global manufacturing, what to buy to lower electricity costs. research, product design and development activities for personal computers, servers, and digital and peripheral products. In FY 2010/11, Lenovo’s newly formed Mobile Internet and Digital Home • TCO certified ensures that all products come with an ergonomic Business Group (MIDH) division was not included in the scope of our product EMS. All of Lenovo’s design, deliver high performance, are low on energy consumption manufacturing and development facilities are included in the global EMS registration which is and meet the toughest environmental requirements including use of recycled content and limits on hazardous materials. issued by Bureau Veritas. Additionally, all Lenovo China manufacturing and R&D sites are covered by an ISO 14001 registration with the China Electronics Standardization Institute. • GreenGuard® certificates are awarded by the GREENGUARD® Environmental Institute (GEI) for contribution toward improving public Click here to view Lenovo’s Global ISO 14001 registration certificate. health and quality of life through improvement of indoor air. Performance-based standards are incorporated in the selection criteria for products with low chemical and particle emissions. • Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive: The directive electronic equipment, commonly referred to as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS), was adopted by the European Union in February 2003. This directive restricts the use of six hazardous materials in the manufacture of various types of electronic and electrical equipment. 44 ISO 14001 Geography Location Primary Function Before Certificate China Beijing Manufacturing 3 Paper and Plastic China Beijing Research and Development 1 Reduction China Huiyang Manufacturing 1 Lenovo is committed to changing the way people China Shanghai Manufacturing 2 around the world use technology. During FY 2010/11, a global Lenovo project team, including China Shanghai Zhangjiang Research and Development 1 representatives from Manufacturing, Legal, China Shenzhen Manufacturing 1 Service and Support, Regulatory Compliance, User Experience, and Product Safety collaborated China Shenzhen Research and Development 1 to reduce the amount of paper and plastic shipped India Pondicherry Manufacturing 1 with our products by over 4 million pounds per two Japan Yokohama Research and Development 1 year. The team created an innovative process to deliver special bid products to large enterprise Mexico Monterrey Manufacturing 1 customers with a two page flyer instead of the After U.S. Morrisville, North Carolina Research and Development 1 full set of hard copy publications and the plastic U.S. Whitsett, North Carolina Light Manufacturing/Fulfillment 1 bag that had been required to hold them. A soft copy of all product publications is included with the product’s software preload. Customers can also Within the framework of our EMS Lenovo annually identifies and evaluates those aspects of access product publications electronically via the our operations that have actual or potential significant impacts on the environment. Metrics and Internet. controls are established for these significant environmental aspects. Performance relative to these metrics is tracked and reported on a quarterly basis. Performance improvement targets This new publication strategy eliminates over 12 are established for select environmental aspects annually, taking into consideration performance million pounds of Greenhouse Gases from entering relative to the environmental metrics, the Environmental Policy, regulatory requirements, customer the atmosphere every year. Additional projects are requirements, stakeholder input, environmental and financial impact and management directives. underway to further reduce our carbon footprint. During FY 2010/11 our significant global environmental aspects included: • Product materials – including use of recycled plastics and environmentally preferable materials, • Product packaging, • Product energy use and associated Greenhouse Gas emissions, • Site energy consumption, and • Waste management. 45 Status of Lenovo FY 2010/11 Objectives and Targets Aspects/Objectives Targets Status Product Materials Minimize use of hazardous or potentially Update/establishment of achievable low halogen plans by Target achieved. Results of plans are reflected in low halogen FY 2011/12 hazardous materials in Lenovo products. each business unit. objectives and targets. Increase amount of post-consumer recycled content plastics Target partially achieved. 6 of 8 affected business units (BU) met the target. purchased by each business unit by 20% in CY 2010 versus Financial and technical limitations delayed progress in select products. CY 2009. Increase the use of PCC in Lenovo products. By April 1, 2011, all newly released products (other than Target achieved. 4 of 7 affected BUs met the target. One BU had PCC in all options) must contain some PCC, where technically and products but one. Due to technical and/or financial limitations PCC could not be financially feasible. used in some products. Product Energy Drive reductions in CO2 emissions associated Establish preferred method for compiling product carbon footprint. Target achieved. with operation of Lenovo products. Establish product energy/carbon footprint targets. Target achieved. Reflected in FY 2011/12 objectives and targets. Packaging Each business unit to establish specific volume/weight Target achieved. Weight and volume reductions were achieved for select products reduction targets for packaging. in both the Think-branded and Idea-branded product lines. For example: ThinkPad and IdeaPad 14 and 15 packaging volume and weight were decreased by Minimize the use of packaging material 3% and 25%, respectively. consumption while driving the use of Each business unit to establish materials improvement goals, Target achieved. Transition to post consumer and environmentally preferable environmentally sustainable materials. including transitioning to 100% post-consumer packaging materials achieved for select Think-range of and Idea products. For example: the materials and use of environmentally preferable cushioning Think product line transitioned to 100% Post-Consumer Content in both desktop materials such as cardboard. and laptop packaging, The Idea range of product line transitioned from plastic to corrugated cushions on the S and U Series. Waste Management Monitor waste intensity1 for FY 2010/11 and evaluate Target achieved. Annual waste intensity established for all manufacturing and opportunities to reduce solid waste quantities. R&D locations during FY 2010/11. Minimize solid waste impacts from Lenovo Evaluate feasibility of establishing a waste intensity reduction Target achieved. Waste intensity targets established for all manufacturing and operations and products. target for FY 2011/12 by 3/31/2011. R&D locations for FY 2011/12. Recycle2 > 97% Manufacturing and Development waste. Target not achieved. Site Energy Consumption Eliminate or offset Lenovo Scope 1 GHG emissions. Target achieved through emissions reduction and purchase of carbon offsets. Lenovo reduced Scope 1 GHG emissions by 16.5% relative to FY 2009/10. Minimize GHG/carbon emissions associated Achieve absolute reductions in Lenovo Scope 2 GHG Achieved 3/31/2011 Target. with the operation of Lenovo facilities worldwide. emissions relative to FY 2009/10 emissions according to the 3 following schedule: 10% by 03/31/2011 Lenovo reduced absolute Scope 2 GHG emissions by 10.4% relative to 13% by 03/31/2013 FY 2009/10. 16% by 03/31/2016 20% by 03/31/2020 1 Waste intensity is the MT of waste generated per unit of product produced for manufacturing sites and per employee for offices sites. 2 Recycle includes material reuse and material recycling. 3 Lenovo has changed its base year from CY 2008 to FY 2009 following our move to align environmental reporting with financial reporting. Lenovo energy and emissions data are now reported on a Fiscal Year ending on March 31. 46 Click here to see Lenovo’s FY 2011/12 global environmental Objectives and Targets. These controls included actions such as signage and employee education, adjustments in Lenovo reports environmental data in alignment with its Fiscal Year which ends on March 31. hours of operation for lighting and air conditioning, seasonal adjustments in operating hours, requiring use of energy saver modes on personal computers, replacing CRT with LCD Lenovo began external verification of a portion of its reported environmental data during FY monitors, implementing the use of energy-efficient light bulbs, purchasing wind generated 2010/11. The verification included FY 2009/10 and FY 2010/11 energy and GHG emissions data. electricity, increasing use of video and telephone conferencing and instituting energy patrols Lenovo will expand the verification to include waste data for FY 2011/12. to turn off unneeded lights. Click here to see the FY 2009/10 Verification Statement or visit http://www.lenovo.com/climate • Engineering controls were implemented at Morrisville, Buenos Aires, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Click here to see the FY 2011/12 Verification Statement or visit http://www.lenovo.com/climate Hook, Paisley, Paris, Oslo, Prague, Bangalore, Sydney, Wellington, Huiyang, Shenzhen, Shanghai and Beijing. These controls included projects such as installation of energy-efficient Compliance – The Foundation of Our EMS lighting, motors and air conditioning systems, installation and use of building management Lenovo’s commitment to environmental stewardship begins with a commitment to compliance. systems, changing to more energy-efficient equipment in data centers, installation of solar This includes compliance with regulatory requirements as well as other requirements to which lighting, installation of timers and motion sensors to control lighting, installation of LED lighting Lenovo subscribes in support of managing and minimizing the environmental impact of our and initiation of linked elevator motion technology. operations and our products. These other requirements include commitments such as: • Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (as a member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship While Lenovo has taken many actions to reduce GHG emissions, data is not currently available Coalition EICC) on the specific impacts of individual projects. • International Standard ISO 14001:2004, Environmental Management Systems • ECMA-370 – The Eco Declaration Standard • Rechargeable Battery Recycling Corporation (RBRC) • Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT™) • U.S. EPA’s ENERGY STAR® Program Planting Trees • International Electronics Manufacturers Initiative Lenovo has joined the United Nations We verify compliance with regular, periodic internal and third-party audits of our facilities Environment Programme (UNEP), an and operations.Lenovo received no notices of violation nor incurred any known breaches of authoritative advocate for the global regulatory requirements during FY2010/11. environment, and has been proudly contributing to the UNEP’s Plant for the Planet Billion Tree Campaign. Improving energy efficiency is a fundamental element of Lenovo’s strategy to meet its GHG reduction targets. Projects to reduce energy consumption initiated during FY 2009/10 continued during FY 2010/11. Throughout the organization these activities are driven by site energy champions who lead energy teams that help to drive energy reduction projects. During FY 2009/10 and FY 2010/11 Lenovo implemented over 40 energy efficiency projects at sites around the world. These projects contributed to a near 20 percent reduction in electricity consumption over this time period. These activities included: • Administrative controls were implemented in Mexico City, Monterrey, Caracas, Bogotá, Morrisville, Whitsett, Buenos Aires, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Hook, Paisley, Lima, Dublin, Lenovo employees planting trees in Delhi and Pune, India. Zagreb, Paris, Oslo, Copenhagen, Bratislava, Pondicherry, Bangalore, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Sydney, Melbourne, Wellington, Huiyang, Shenzhen, Shanghai and Beijing. 47 Lenovo’s GHG Emissions Inventory Specifics Base Year FY 2009/10 April 1, 2009 – March 31, 2010 Consistent with Lenovo’s significant reduction in operational energy consumption, global GHG Organizational Operational control approach emissions reductions were also very positive. Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG were reduced by 10.5 Boundary Scope 1, 2 and 3 in worldwide percent from FY 2009/10 to FY 2010/11. Lenovo’s reported Scope 3 emissions increased over Operational manufacturing, research and the same period due to an increase in travel. Our Scope 3 emissions currently only include development sites and office locations those associated with business travel. On-site fuel combusted, operation of Lenovo’s FY 2010/11 CO2e Emissions Inventory is detailed in the following figure. Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions) controlled vehicles, and fugitive emissions Scope Lenovo’s GHG Emissions Scope 2 (indirect GHG emissions) Purchased electricity and steam Scope 3 (other indirect GHG emissions) Business travel 100,000 Greenhouse All GHG covered by the Kyoto co2, sf6, ch4, n2o, hfcs, and pfcs Gases Protocol 80,000 Note: Scope 1 GHG emissions are calculated based on the purchased quantity of commercial fuel and using published MT CO2e 60,000 emission factors from 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. The worksheets World Resources Institute (2008), GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion, Version 2.0 and the GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary CY 2008 Combustion, Version 4.0, were used for making the calculations. The tools were developed by World Resources Institute 40,000 (WRI) and copyrighted. They are available at http://www.ghgprotocol.org FY 2009/10 20,000 Scope 2 GHG emissions are associated with the purchase of electricity from the grid. Information on emissions from all FY 2010/11 Lenovo non-retail facilities worldwide is included in this report. For facilities solely owned or operated by Lenovo, emissions were calculated using actual quantities of purchased electricity and the international electricity emission factors for the 0 relevant country. Lenovo emissions from shared facilities were calculated using the floor area occupied by Lenovo and Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Scope international electricity emission factors for the relevant country. World Resources Institute (2009), GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary Combustion, Version 4.1 was used in calculating emissions associated with purchased electricity. The Similar 1, 2 and 3 Building/Facility Estimation Method was used for facilities that are partially occupied by Lenovo operations. Note: Data for 2008 is based on a Calendar Year. Fiscal Year data for 2008/09 is not available. In order to align environmental Scope 3 GHG emissions are calculated using air miles traveled by employees in commercial jets, ground miles traveled in and financial reporting, beginning April 1, 2009 Lenovo transitions from tracking and reporting energy and climate change rental cars and air miles traveled in leased airplanes. The worksheet World Resources Institute (2008), GHG Protocol Tool data in conjunction with the Calendar Year to Lenovo’s Fiscal Year (FY – April 1 through March 31). for Mobile Combustion, Version 2.0 was used to perform the calculations. Click here for more information about Lenovo’s global environmental data. Lenovo began disclosing Greenhouse Gas emissions, climate change strategies and climate change risks and opportunities assessment through the voluntary public reporting system — Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2009. Lenovo’s annual GHG disclosures are publicly available at www.cdproject.net Lenovo initiated gathering Scope 3 data on two additional of 15 categories included in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard: emissions related to product transportation and emissions associated with employee commuting. Historically, Lenovo has reported only on one of the categories, business travel. Additionally, Lenovo continues participating in the development and implementation of the EICC’s carbon/water reporting tool for the top Tier 1 suppliers. 48 We do however identify and implement opportunities to reduce the amount of water we consume. In Morrisville, USA our cafeteria uses a high-efficiency industrial dishwasher that cleans and reuses water in the wash process. Also in Morrisville, we have implemented the use of xeriscaping, which Managing Nonhazardous Solid Waste utilizes indigenous plants for landscaping, minimizing the need for irrigation. During FY 2010/11 our One of Lenovo’s primary environmental objectives for operational facilities involves minimizing Beijing R&D facility installed wastewater treatment equipment that allows the reuse of wastewater to solid waste and maximizing recycling and reuse. Lenovo manufacturing and R&D facilities operate restroom fixtures. We have also installed water-efficient fixtures in restrooms in numerous worldwide achieved a reuse/recycling rate of 89.7 percent during FY 2010/11. Detailed below is facilities around the world. Detailed in the chart below is water use at Lenovo’s manufacturing and the disposition of solid waste from Lenovo manufacturing and R&D facilities globally. R&D facilities over the past three years. Nonhazardous Waste Lenovo does not engage in any intentional discharge of waste water other than into municipal waste (processes and operations waste, product waste separately) water disposal systems. There were no accidental releases at Lenovo facilities during the Fiscal Year. FY 2010/11 12,691.89 Water Use FY 2009/10 11,995.84 FY 2010/11 302,391 FY 2009/10 295,212 CY 2008 N/A 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 14000 CY 2008 305,179 In Metric Tons Managing Hazardous Waste Lenovo operations generate minimal quantities of hazardous waste. Hazardous waste generated 290,000 292,000 294,000 296,000 298,000 300,000 302,000 304,000 306,000 at operational facilities includes oils, coolants, batteries, fluorescent light bulbs and ballasts. All In Cubic Meter are disposed of in accordance with local environmental regulations with reputable vendors who are approved through a stringent audit process. During FY 2010/11, Lenovo neither imported nor exported any hazardous waste. During this reporting year, there were no significant spills. Waste Water Discharge Values Hazardous Waste (processes and operations waste, product waste separately) FY 2010/11 272,541 FY 2010/11 17.87 FY 2009/10 259,451 FY 2009/10 34.61 CY 2008 278,798 CY 2008 10.39 245,000 250,000 255,000 260,000 265,000 270,000 275,000 280,000 285,000 0 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 In Cubic Meter In Metric Tons Other Air Emissions Lenovo prohibits the use of ozone-depleting substances in our products and manufacturing processes except in HVAC equipment. Ozone depleting substances used in HVAC equipment are managed in accordance with local regulations and intentional releases are prohibited. Lenovo requires the Water Resources reporting of unintentional releases of chemical substances as an environmental incident. During FY Lenovo’s manufacturing and product development operations do not have any wet processes. 2010/11 there was one incident in Morrisville, NC, USA involving the release of approximately 22 Because Lenovo withdraws water only from municipal sources and only for human support, we have kilograms of R-22. The incident involved failure of solder on a check-valve joint on HVAC equipment. minimal impact on local water resources. As such, there are minimal opportunities to reuse water. In response to this all soft solder joints in similar service were replaced with hard solder joints. 49 Lenovo supports efforts to reduce the volume of end-of-life electronic products being disposed manner. This program includes Lenovo on-site environmental evaluations and approvals in in landfills and to reduce the need for new raw materials by increasing the beneficial reuse of accordance with Lenovo’s stringent auditing protocol. products and parts or recycling of materials. Some of the critical evaluation requirements include: • We support legislation assigning financial responsibility for end-of-life management to the • Supplier’s completion of Lenovo’s initial supplier evaluation form declaring their processing individual producers. capabilities and controls, environmental, health and safety management systems, and • We advocate legislative initiatives that allow at least the option for manufacturers to legal compliance. recover their own brand products, using the information gained from recycling their own • Supplier’s full downstream disclosure identifying facilities receiving equipment or waste to brands to be fed back into the product design process. This practice optimizes the cost not point out whether it is reused as a product, part or material, or disposed as a waste and only for the manufacturer, but the consumer as well. ensuring their compliance. • We encourage our customers to reuse or recycle products at the end of their lifecycle by • Successful Lenovo on-site environmental and services audit of all facilities and processes offering consumers and/or commercial clients a range of recycling options for disposing of prior to their use, and documentation of audit findings and recommendations in a final report. products, batteries and product packaging worldwide through voluntary programs and/or • Review of all audit documentation and recommendation by Lenovo’s Product End-of-Life country, province or state mandated programs. If you are interested in learning more about Management Program Manager and final approval by Lenovo’s Director of Global these programs, please visit: http://www.lenovo.com/recycling Environmental Affairs. • Maintain Lenovo Corporate Approved Supplier Facility listing by geography and approved services. Initiatives • Establishment of Lenovo contract with each approved supplier with specific environmental • 2005 – Lenovo implemented legally required product take-back and recycling solutions in terms and conditions related to expected environmental performance and reporting. all regions where Lenovo directly sells products. • 2005 – Lenovo established a product take-back and recycling program in the United States Suppliers include surplus buyers, asset recovery services, legal and voluntary product take-back providing free collection and recycling to consumers for Lenovo and select IBM PCs. providers, field services, dismantlers, recyclers and disposal vendors. All recovered products • 2006 – Lenovo introduced a free product take-back and recycling program in China for and parts are required to be data wiped, refurbished, tested for function, labeled as refurbished Legend and Lenovo-branded PCs, laptops, monitors and servers, ThinkPad laptops, and resold where they will be used as originally intended without further refurbishing before ThinkCentre PCs and ThinkVision Monitors. use. Suppliers are required to use Lenovo-approved recyclers for the disposition of non-working • 2007 – Lenovo launched free take-back and recycling program in India for the same products. products and parts and waste generated from their refurbishing processes. Lenovo prohibits the • In late 2009, Lenovo launched an Asset Recovery Services offering for the secure and shipment of hazardous waste to non-OECD countries. Additionally, Lenovo incorporates specific environmentally sound return and processing of Lenovo business customer replaced environmental terms and conditions into contracts and agreements with all of these suppliers. products with coverage in over 40 countries. This offering is maturing with increased annual customer returns with over 80 percent of returns being used as products as originally Interested parties can view information about the location of potentially hazardous components, intended. such as batteries, which may require special handling at the end of a product’s lifecycle in the • In 2011, the free product take-back and recycling program in the United States was enhanced product manual or by contacting: environment@lenovo.com to provide increased collection opportunities, including at-home pickup. • Customers can obtain information about Lenovo’s product take-back services by visiting: In the U.S. and Canada, Lenovo participates in the Rechargeable Battery Recycling Corporation’s http://www.lenovo.com/recycling (RBRC) “Call2Recycle” Program. Rechargeable lithium ion batteries from Lenovo products such as laptops can be recycled free of charge at any of the RBRC’s 30,000-plus drop-off locations For our business customers, Lenovo offers Asset Recovery Services (ARS) in more than 40 in the U.S. and Canada. For more information about the RBRC’s “Call2Recycle” Program and countries. Customer-access information for these programs in the Americas, Asia Pacific and to locate a battery recycling location near you, visit http://www.call2recycle.org/locator/ Lenovo Europe/Middle East/Africa can also be obtained at http://www.lenovo.com/recycling is also a member of a number of other battery and packaging collection and recycling consortia Lenovo maintains an extensive program for ensuring remarketed products and parts and the worldwide, especially in European countries. For more information about worldwide programs, refurbishing, remanufacturing, recycling and disposal of end-of-life products owned by Lenovo or please visit: http://www.lenovo.com/recycling returned by customers are accomplished in an environmentally conscious and legally compliant 50 Recovery and Recycling Trends Total End-of-Life Disposition During the 2010 Calendar Year, Lenovo financed or managed the processing of more than 13,468.63 metric tons, equivalent to more than 29.7 million pounds, of Lenovo-owned and 11,000 customer-returned computer equipment. Of this total, 4.06 percent was reused as products or 10,000 parts, 81.6 percent was recycled as materials, 10.9 percent was incinerated with waste to energy 9,000 recovery, 1.3 percent was incinerated as disposal treatment and only 2.13 percent was disposed of by landfill. As part of Lenovo’s continual improvement activities, we look for opportunities to 8,000 Metric tons reduce the use of incineration and landfill and maximize reuse and recycling. 7,000 Since Lenovo’s establishment as a global company in May 2005, we have processed more 6,000 than 83,000 metric tons or 183 million pounds of computer equipment through our contracted 5,000 service providers. 4,000 3,000 2,000 Recovery and Recycling Trends 1,000 20,000 0 Reused Recycled WTE Incinerate Landfill CY 2009 CY 2010 Metric tons 15,000 Disposition of Products Returned from Customers 8,000 10,000 7,000 6,000 Metric tons 5,000 4,000 5,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 0 PELM PTB Reused Recycled WTE Incinerate Landfill CY 2007 CY 2008 CY 2009 CY 2010 CY 2009 CY 2010 Note: WTE – Waste To Energy Notes: Pelm – Product End-of-Life Management Our consumers have shown considerable interest in our recycling programs. In 2010, customer PTB – Product Take Back returns constituted more than 9,600 metric tons or more than 21 million pounds of the total processed equipment, which is a 34.8 percent increase from the 2009 performance. 2010’s performance includes third-year data from Lenovo’s Asset Recovery Services offered to large enterprises along with data from Lenovo’s other voluntary and legal product takeback programs for consumers and businesses. The recycled customer returns in 2010 represents 3.5 percent of the total weight of new products put on the market in 2010 and 7.65 percent of the weight of products shipped in 2003. Shipments in 2003 include only Lenovo China shipments because Lenovo did not purchase IBM’s PC business until May 2005. The figure on page 52, illustrates customer returns by geography. 51 Customers Returns by Geography • Product-specific upgradeability features are described in product literature and declarations for all Lenovo product lines. 9,000 • Recycled resins, ranging in recycled 8,000 content from 10 percent to over 85 7,000 percent, are used in a number of Lenovo hardware applications and are specified Metric tons 6,000 CY 2009 as preferred materials where practical. 5,000 Lenovo is working toward the goal of 4,000 including some amount of recycled CY 2010 plastic in all new products. 3,000 • New products are evaluated for chemical emissions. To minimize potential VOC emissions, 2,000 non-solvent based powder coatings are used for decorative painted parts wherever practical. 1,000 Lenovo supports a precautionary approach, ensuring Lenovo will take appropriate action even 0 if some cause-and-effect relationships are not fully scientifically established. Emea The Americas Asia Pacific Lenovo’s priority is to use environmentally preferable materials whenever applicable. In adhering to the precautionary approach, Lenovo supports restricting the intentional addition of potentially concerning materials when economically and technically viable alternatives exist. These 5.5 Lenovo’s Environmentally restrictions may also include implementing concentration limits for incidental occurrences. For materials where economically and technically viable alternatives do not exist, Lenovo collects Conscious Products Program data on the usage of these materials above the defined concentration limit. This data can then be reported to customers or other stakeholders. Lenovo continues to actively search for Lenovo’s commitment to the environment came even before its establishment as a global environmentally preferable materials that can be used as substitutes. company in 2005. Lenovo had already developed technical specifications for PCs that included We also expect our partners/suppliers to demonstrate the same commitment to environmentally environmental attributes such as energy. In addition, all commercial products were designed to sound practices. Our supplier specifications are available at: http://www.lenovo.com/global_ meet China’s energy-saving targets. procurement/us/en/Guidelines/Restrictions_and_Packaging.html With the globalization of Lenovo’s reach in 2005, the company took environmental sustainability Lenovo restricts the use of environmentally sensitive materials in our products. The specification a step further and adopted a comprehensive Environmentally Conscious Products Program encompasses both regulatory and Lenovo-imposed material bans and restrictions, including the aimed toward leadership in the global PC business. The program is implemented by a network of prohibition of ozone-depleting substances in all applications and the elimination of European Environmentally Conscious Product Engineers and Green Product Teams within each business Union (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, unit with the support of the Global Environmental Affairs Team. Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH)-restricted materials beyond those jurisdictions where regulatory requirements exist. Lenovo’s implementation strategy and requirements are consistent with the requirements specified in the EU’s RoHS Directive and 5.5.1 Materials REACH Regulation. Additional information about RoHS and REACH can be viewed at: http://www.lenovo.com/social_responsibility/us/en/sustainability/RoHS_Communication.pdf Lenovo’s corporate-wide environmental standards and specifications require the designers of all Lenovo IT products to consider certain environmentally conscious design practices to facilitate http://www.lenovo.com/social_responsibility/us/en/sustainability/Lenovo_REACH_SVHC_ and encourage recycling and minimize resource consumption. Disclosure.pdf For example: Lenovo supports the goal to phase out Brominated Flame Retardants (BFRs) and PVC and is committed to driving its supply chain toward this goal. PVC and BFR-free4 monitors: • All product lines adhere to marking of plastic parts greater than 25 grams for identification of resins for recycling. • Products are designed to minimize the types of plastics they contain and avoid contamination 4 Lenovo supports the definition of BFR/PVC free as defined in the iNEMI Position Statement on the 'Definition of of plastics by paints, glues or welded connections. Tools needed for disassembly to subsystem Low-Halogen' Electronics (BFR/CFR/PVC-Free)”. levels are also universally available. 52 Lenovo’s history of energy saving and emissions reduction • 2004 – Lenovo China received the “Green Product” award for its desktop PC from the China Environmental Protection Foundation. The ICT industry has been driving huge productivity gains for decades and today has the capacity to deliver solutions that can yield the greatest impact in delivering reductions in GHG. • 2005 – All Lenovo’s commercial products met China’s energy savings targets. A new IDC (International Data Corporation) report, dubbed the G20 ICT Sustainability Index, has • 2007 – Lenovo is actively participating in ENERGY STAR® 4.0 released in July 2007 by the identified roughly 5.8 billion tons of CO2 that can be eliminated by 2020 with the “focused use of United States. All Lenovo notebook, desktop and monitor global models introduced since ICT-based solutions”. the effective date of ENERGY STAR® 4.0 meet the new standard, either in the basic With several product energy efficiency specifications already in use even before Lenovo’s models or as an option. inception in 2005, we launched the Climate Savers Computing Initiative (CSCI) in 2007 in • 2007 – Lenovo leads the effort in writing the General Technical Specification for China’s PC industry. partnership with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and other technology companies. CSCI and its member companies advocate and promote energy-efficient computer products globally. CSCI • 2007 – Lenovo, in cooperation with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and other NGOs, has set the goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 54 million metric tons annually by participated in the launch of the Climate Savers Computing Initiative (CSCI). 2010, and the final goal is to lower the total energy consumption of all the computers in the world • 2008 – Lenovo introduced the first China Energy Efficiency Tier One monitor. to half of the current level by 2010. • 2008 – In April 2008 Lenovo ThinkVision monitors became the first full line of monitors The energy consumption and performance of Lenovo products meets the efficiency requirements to score a Gold rating in the EPEAT® registry. of China, Japan, the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions. Many Lenovo laptop, desktop, server and monitor products satisfy and even exceed the current ENERGY STAR® • 2009 – In January, Lenovo ThinkVision monitors became the first full line-up of monitors to achieve ENERGY STAR™ 5.0 – nine months ahead of the launch of the new standard. requirements. The ENERGY STAR® qualified models are listed at Home: ENERGY STAR® – http://www.energystar.gov For more information about Lenovo’s energy-efficient products, go to: • 2010 – In June 2010, TCO awarded the M90z the prestigious TCO Certified Edge designation. http://www.lenovo.com/energy Product Green Awards and Recognition Lenovo ThinkPad L412: “Green” Laptop Lenovo ThinkVision L2251x Wide – “In addition to earning the TCO Edge certification, this model is EPEAT® Gold and ENERGY STAR® 5.0 compliant. Given its low power characteristics and numerous certifications, the L2251x gets our Greentech stamp of approval”. Lenovo, HP unveil green PCs for Earth Day ThinkPad L412 Lenovo ThinkPad L Series laptops Could be Greenest Laptops in the World ThinkPad L Series Announced – Green Laptops Built for Business Lenovo ThinkPad L Series is greenest to date Lenovo announces new environmentally-friendly ThinkPad laptops Lenovo ThinkPad L Series doesn’t look or feel like it’s made of recycled materials Lenovo Pushes the Boundaries of Sustainable Design with TCO Certified Green IT Products – Leads PC Makers for Portfolio Breadth of TCO Certified Edge Products Lenovo first in the world with TCO Certified Edge for All-In-One PCs Lenovo ThinkStation E20 – Green Tech approved 54 55 ISO and OHS Certificates ISO 9001 Certificate ISO 14001 Certificate OHSAS 18001 Certificates Below are hyperlinks to documents that can be found on Lenovo’s Web pages. If you are reading this as a printed document, you may get to these links by opening this Sustainability Report on Lenovo’s website at http://www.lenovo.com/sustainability ENERGY STAR® ENERGY STAR® Qualified Products Lenovo Corporate Policies The following Lenovo policies and practices are available on the Internet: Lenovo Web Pages Climate Change Policy Social Responsibility http://www.lenovo.com/csr Code of Conduct Environment http://www.lenovo.com/environment Commitment to Accessibility Think Green – Climate http://www.lenovo.com/climate Commitment to Diversity and Nondiscrimination Think Green Products – Energy http://www.lenovo.com/energy Data Privacy Think Green Products – Materials http://www.lenovo.com/materials Employee Health and Safety Policy Lenovo Product’s ECO Declarations http://www.lenovo.com/ecodeclaration Environmental Affairs Policy Think Green Products – Packaging http://www.lenovo.com/packaging Privacy Practices on the Web Think Green Products – Recycling http://www.lenovo.com/recycling Product Safety and Ergonomics Social Investments http://www.lenovo.com/social_responsibility/us/en/social_investments.html Quality Policy Global Supply Chain http://www.lenovo.com/social_responsibility/us/en/global_supply_chain.html Sustainability Reports http://www.lenovo.com/sustainability White Papers Resources Page http://www.lenovo.com/social_responsibility/us/en/social_responsibility Lenovo Energy White Paper – Eco Drive with Power Manager™ resources.html Lenovo Low Halogen White Paper – Lenovo’s Low Halogen Transition Plans and Progress Lenovo Packaging White Paper – Packaging Green Contact Information for this Report Lenovo Recycled Content White Paper – A Lenovo Environmental Success Story: “Using For questions or other information about this report or its content, please contact Beth Recycled Content Plastics” Gatts, Sustainability Project Manager, 1009 Think Place, Morrisville, NC 27560 or e-mail at environment@lenovo.com Lenovo ThinkPad Design for Environment White Paper – Environmentally Conscious Product Design “Green PCs for a Smarter Future” White Paper Disclosures REACH: SVHC Disclosure Lenovo’s Product Mercury statement Lenovo’s Progress on RoHS Lenovo Statement concerning WEEE 56 The Global Reporting Initiative's G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provide a comprehensive set of indicators covering the economic, environmental and ethical impacts of a company's performance. These reporting principles have informed our reporting for many years. We have self-assessed our FY 2010-11 Sustainability Report as GRI Application Level C. The table in this section provides an overview of Lenovo’s reporting against the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. For further information on the GRI, see www.globalreporting.org c Report Application Level c B B A A Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B G3 Profile OUTPUT 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1– 3.8, 3.10 – 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 – 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each G3 Management Indicator Category Indicator Category OUTPUT Approach Disclosures Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of Report on each core G3 and 10 Performance Indicators, 20 Performance Indicators, Sector Supplement* Indicator G3 Performance including at least one from at least one from each of with due regards to the OUTPUT Indicators & each of: Economic, Social Economic, Environmental, Materiality Principle by either: Sector Supplement and Environmental. Human Rights, Labor, a) reporting on the Indicator or Performance Indicators Society, Product b) explaining the reason for Responsibility. its omission. *Sector suppliment in final version. 57 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Disclosure Description Lenovo Report Section 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Section 1.0 Yang Yuanqing Letter 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Section 1.0 Yang Yuanqing Letter and Letter from Peter Hortensius 2. Organizational Profile Profile Disclosure Description Lenovo Report Section 2.1 Name of the organization. Section 3.1 About Lenovo 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Report Parameters and Section 3.4 Lenovo Products 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Section 3.2 Lenovo at a Glance and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Section 3.2 Lenovo at a Glance 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major Section 3.2 Lenovo at a Glance operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Section 3.1 About Lenovo and Section 3.3 Governance 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ Section 3.1 About Lenovo and beneficiaries). Section 3.2 Lenovo at a Glance 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Section 2.2 Metrics Section 3.1 About Lenovo, and Section 3.2 Lenovo at A Glance 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Section 5.0 Planet 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Section 5.0 Planet 3. Report Parameters Profile Disclosure Description Lenovo Report Section 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., Fiscal/Calendar Year) for information provided. Report Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Report Parameters 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Report Parameters 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Report Parameters 3.5 Process for defining report content. Section 3.2.1 Working with Stakeholder 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, Report Parameters suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for Report Parameters explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Report Parameters entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 58 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques Report Parameters underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the Report Parameters reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Report Parameters applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Report Parameters and Section 6.2 GRI Reference Table 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Section 5.0 Planet 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Profile Disclosure Description Lenovo Report Section 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body Section 3.3 Governance responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Section 1.0 Yang Yuanqing Letter 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the 2010/2011 Lenovo Annual Report: http://www.lenovo.com/ highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. ww/lenovo/pdf/report/E_099220110620a.pdf 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Section 3.3 Governance governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 2010/2011 Lenovo Annual Report: http://www.lenovo.com/ ww/lenovo/pdf/report/E_099220110620a.pdf 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest 2010/2011 Lenovo Annual Report: http://www.lenovo.com/ governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. ww/lenovo/pdf/report/E_099220110620a.pdf 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Section 6.1 Reference Documents economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and Section 1.0 Yang Yuanqing Letter management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Report Parameters and Section 5.0 Planet 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to Section 6.3 UNGC Table which the organization subscribes or endorses. 59 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy Section 4.3.3 Outreach, Collaborations and Partnerships organizations in which the organization: Section 5.1.3 Partnering and Collaboration • Has positions in governance bodies; • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or • Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Section 3.2.1 Working with Stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Profile Disclosure Description Lenovo Report Section DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Economic performance Section 2.2 Metrics Aspects Market presence Section 2.2 Metrics Indirect economic impacts DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Materials Section 5.0 Planet, 5.1.2 Product Life Cycle Management Energy Section 5.0 Planet, 5.2.1 Energy and Climate Change Water Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.4 Other Environmental Aspects Biodiversity Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.2 GHG Emissions Performance, Emissions, effluents and waste 5.3.3 Operational Waste Management, and Aspects 5.3.4 Other Environmental Aspects Section 5.0 Planet, 5.5 Environmentally Products and services Conscious Products Program Section 5.0 Planet, 5.5 Environmentally Compliance Conscious Products Program Transport Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.2 GHG Emissions Performance Overall Section 5.0 Planet, 5.1 Lenovo’s Environmental Commitment DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Employment Section 4.0 People, 4.1 Lenovo Employees Labor/management relations Occupational health and safety Section 4.0 People, 4.1.3 Occupational Health and Safety Aspects Training and education Section 4.0 People, 4.1.4 Employee Development Diversity and equal opportunity Section 4.0 People, 4.1.1 Diversity Equal remuneration for women and men 60 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Investment and procurement practices Section 4.0 People, 4.2 Global Supply Chain Section 4.0 People, 4.1.8 Privacy, Work Environment and Non-discrimination Employee Complaint Process Freedom of association and collective bargaining Child labor Section 4.0 People, 4.2 Global Supply Chain Aspects Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Section 4.0 People, 4.2 Global Supply Chain Security practices Indigenous rights Assessment Section 4.0 People, 4.2 Global Supply Chain Remediation Section 4.0 People, 4.2 Global Supply Chain DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Local communities Section 4.0 People, 4.3 Lenovo Investments in People Corruption Section 3.0 Performance, 3.3 Governance Aspects Public policy Section 4.0 People, 4.1.9 Public Policy Anti-competitive behavior Section 3.0 Performance, 3.3 Governance Compliance Section 3.0 Performance, 3.3 Governance DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Customer health and safety Product and service labelling Section 3.0 Performance, 3.4 Products Marketing communications Aspects Section 4.0 People, 4.1.8 Privacy, Work Environment and Customer privacy Employee Complaint Process Section 5.0 Planet, 5.5 Lenovo’s Environmentally Compliance Conscious Products Program STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicator Description Lenovo Report Section Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee Section 4.0 People, 4.3 Lenovo Investments in People compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 2010/2011 Lenovo Annual Report: http://www.lenovo.com/ ww/lenovo/pdf/report/E_099220110620a.pdf – Pages 69 – 70 61 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Indicator Description Lenovo Report Section Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Section 5.0 Planet, 5.5 Lenovo’s Environmentally Conscious Products Program EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Section 5.0 Planet, 5.4 Product End-of-Life Management Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0 Planet, 5.2.1 Energy and Climate Change EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0 Planet, 5.2.1 Energy and Climate Change EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0 Planet, 5.2.1 Energy and Climate Change EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and Section 5.0 Planet, 5.5 Lenovo’s Environmentally reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Conscious Products Program EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.1 Energy Reductions in Operations Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.4 Other Environmental Aspects EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.4 Other Environmental Aspects Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 62 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect Greenhouse Gas emissions by weight. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.2 GHG Emissions Performance EN17 Other relevant indirect Greenhouse Gas emissions by weight. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.2 GHG Emissions Performance EN18 Initiatives to reduce Greenhouse Gas emissions and reductions achieved. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.2 GHG Emissions Performance EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0, 5.3.4 Other Environmental Aspects EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics and Section 5.0, 5.3.3 Operational Waste Management EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.4 Other Environmental Aspects EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Section 5.0 Planet, 5.3.4 Other Environmental Aspects Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Section 5.0 Planet, 5.5 Lenovo’s Environmentally Conscious Products Program EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Section 5.0 Planet, 5.5 Lenovo’s Environmentally Conscious Products Program Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Not applicable with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Section 5.0 Planet, 5.5 Environmentally Conscious Products organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 63 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicator Description Lenovo Report Section Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related Section 4.0 People, 4.1.3 Occupational Health and Safety fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Section 4.0 People, 4.1.3 Occupational Health and Safety members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Section 2.0 Highlights, 2.2 Metrics LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Section 4.0 People, 4.1.5 Employee Development employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Section 4.0 People, 4.1.5 Employee Development and career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Social: Human Rights Performance Indicator Description Lenovo Report Section Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone Section 4.0 People, 4.2 Global Supply Chain human rights screening, and actions taken. 64 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Section 4.0 People, 4.2 Global Supply Chain compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Not Applicable Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Social: Society Performance Indicator Description Lenovo Report Section Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 65 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Performance Indicator Description Lenovo Report Section Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product Not Applicable and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Not Applicable customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the Not Applicable provision and use of products and services. 66 Lenovo became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2009 and fully embraces its policies and principles. The UN Global Compact is a public-private strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the area of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The table below shows where Lenovo is addressing each of these principles. Lenovo 2010/11 Sustainability Report Principle Section or Web Page Human Rights Section 4.0 People: Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 4.2 Global Supply Chain – Supplier Performance Management Principle 2 Section 4.0 People: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 4.1.4 Human Rights Labor Standards Throughout this report and on our web at Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; http://www.lenovo.com/csr Section 4.0 People: Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 4.2 Global Supply Chain – Supplier Performance Management Section 4.0 People: Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 4.2 Global Supply Chain – Supplier Performance Management Section 4.0 People: Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4.1.8 Privacy, Work Environment and Employee Complaint Process Environment Report Parameters, Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Section 5.0 Planet: Section 5.5.1 Materials Section 5.0 Planet: Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 5.1.2 Product Life Cycle, 5.2 Operations Section 5.0 Planet: Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5.1.2 Product Life Cycle Anti-Corruption Section 4.0 People: Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.1.2 Ethics and Compliance 67 lenovo.com
