Sustainability Report 2011 Content Steel manufacturing is energy and resource-intensive and has an impact on the environment globally and locally. SSAB’s high strength steels offer advantages for sustainable growth. SSAB’s environmental strategy is longterm in nature and based on efficiency and innovation. One challenge facing the steel industry is to ensure the supply of a skilled workforce in the future. Development opportunities in a global and safe work environment are crucial. Business overview Social responsibility 32 Comments by the CEO 2 Strategic personnel work 33 SSAB in context 4 Health and safety 35 Our stakeholders 8 Focus: Safety 38 Strategy and targets 10 Suppliers 40 Corporate governance 15 Community 41 Economic value creation 16 GRI table and glossary SSAB’s offering 17 GRI table 42 Focus: Householding of resources 20 Glossary 44 Addresses 45 The environment 22 SSAB’s environmental work 23 Focus: Emission rights 25 Environmental work during the year 26 Environmental impact during the production process 28 The cover shows Stefan Skans, Knowledge Service Center About this report and Linda Larsson, SSAB One. SSAB’s Sustainability Report 2011 reflects the most important aspects of SSAB’s activities from a sustainability perspective. The report covers events that occurred during the 2011 calendar year. Reported data has been compiled during the reporting period and covers all business areas and subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The environmental data is focused on the Swedish part of operations. The Sustainability Report is published in Swedish and English. In the event of differences between the English translation and the Swedish original, the Swedish Sustainability Report shall prevail. A complete content index, in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), is presented on pages 42-43, and SSAB has self-declared the reporting to be Application Level C. SSAB’s Sustainability Report 2011 also constitutes Communication on Progress (CoP) reporting to Global Compact, where activities and results related to Global Compact principles are reported through cross-reference to a selection of GRI indicators. In the event of questions or comments, please contact SSAB at info@ssab.com. A stronger, lighter and more sustainable world SSAB is a global leader in value added, high strength steel. SSAB offers products developed in close cooperation with its customers to create a stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. SSAB Americas Share of the Group’s 38% 51% sales EBITDA 60% 15 % See SSAB’s web based annual report 2011 on www.ssab.com or by scanning the QR code. capital employed registered number of employees Brands Grade of steel/important Brands Grade of steel/important customer segments customer segments High strength structural steel: Prepainted steel sheet: • Transportation industry; trailer and bodybuilders • Construction companies, architects, property owners Wear plate: Protection plate: • Yellow goods and construction machinery • Protection and security Advanced and ultra-high strength steel: Engineering and tool steel: • Car manufacturers • Resellers, small workshops and OEMs High strength steel: • Crane manufacturers Sales, total Operating profit and margin Försäljning total SEK m SEK m % 60,000 10,000 30 50,000 8,000 25 20 40,000 6,000 15 30,000 4,000 10 20,000 2,000 5 10,000 0 07 08 09 10 11 0 Profit 0 07 08 09 10 11 Sales -2,000 -5 Margin SSAB EMEA SSAB APAC Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s 40% 37% 6% 7% sales EBITDA sales EBITDA 35% 74% 3% 2% capital employed registered number capital employed registered number of employees of employees Result 2011 Sales increase compared with 2010 12% • Sales were up 12 percent, to SEK 44,640 (39,883) million • Operating profit improved to SEK 2,512 (1,132) million • Profit after financial items improved to SEK 1,998 (730) million • Earnings per share of SEK 4.82 (2.23) 2011 • Operating cash flow of SEK 2,821 (-172) million and cash flow from current operations of SEK 2,200 (-731) million Niche products’ share of total shipments • Niche products now account for 37 (32) percent of steel shipments 37% • Proposed dividend of SEK 2.00 (2.00) per share, equal to SEK 648 (648) million 2011 The share’s performance Earnings per share 4.82SEK SEK 300 OMX Stockholm 250 SSAB A 2011 200 150 Proposed dividend per share 100 2.00 SEK A-Share 50 07 08 09 10 11 Nasdaq OMX Stockholm 2011 Source: Trust and Fidessa the year in brief SSAB is increasing the shipments of its niche products, advanced high strength steels and quenched steels. The development, together with the customers, of applications which improve total economy and make a positive contribution to the environment, provides a powerful stimulus resulting in new, exciting solutions and initiatives. SSAB also continues its work on enhancing the eﬃciency of the various stages in the production process. Major focus is being placed on safety and on developing a strong organization. 10 13 20 38 A stronger, lighter and more focus continues to be Achieving the same goals A safe workplace. SSAB is sustainable world. SSAB is placed on business ethics. using fewer resources. introducing standards for increasing the shipments of its A large-scale training project SSAB is endeavoring to achieve systematic work environment. niche products. was carried out during the year. maximum savings in the use of resources in all stages. SSAB SuStAinABility rEpOrt 2011 the year in brief 1 » Our objective is that high strength steels shall account for 50 percent of our shipments within three years. « 2 Comments by the CEO SSAB sustainability report 2011 The past year has been full of challenges. The uncertainties in Generally speaking, SSAB’s production is very efficient and our blast the financial markets caused many steel companies to curtail profurnaces are among the best in the world when it comes to limiting duction and their share prices were pressed downwards. This happecarbon dioxide emissions. We work in a focused manner on achieving ned also to SSAB. Nevertheless, I am confident as regards the future. a more efficient use of both energy and materials. Thus, I am concerThe world needs steel, especially steels which provide major benefits ned over the structure of the new rules for limiting emissions within in terms of both profitability and the environment. the EU, which may have the consequence that we are unable to Our vision of a stronger, lighter and more sustainable world increase production in Sweden. The effect may be that growth in the involves how we, together with our customers, develop products steel industry will end up outside the borders of Sweden and Europe, which provide major benefits. Through the use of high strength steels, in countries where emissions per produced tonne are significantly the customers are able to produce products which use less material, higher. We will continue our improvement work, but with current proare more durable, stronger and lighter than products made of standuction technology it is difficult to reduce carbon dioxide emissions dard steels. This naturally has major advantages both for our custoby much more. Thus, SSAB is actively participating in various coopemers and the environment. ration projects aimed at developing new technology. Construction Two years ago, SSAB signed up to the UN Global Compact. This has begun on a demonstration plant within the ULCOS cooperation clarifies our responsibility as regards environments, people and comproject, which is aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 50 munities that are affected by our operapercent. SSAB is also participating in protions. This report constitutes a part of jects to investigate carbon dioxide capture our communication and how we work » I am optimistic as regards SSAB’s and storage possibilities. based on Global Compact principles. During the year we have continued the future. We are continuing to focus We will continue to support the UN work on our zero vision as regards accidents Global Compact and its principles. Work on creating a stronger, lighter and in the workplace. As an employer, we must is continuing on incorporating the prinmore sustainable world through a never accept safety being compromised. ciples into our strategy and to ensure Year after year, independent surveys have clear strategy which meets the that they become part of our culture and named our plants in the US as the safest our day-to-day operations. challenges of tomorrow. « workplaces within the steel industry on the Our goal is that high strength steels American continent, whereas we still have shall account for 50 percent of our shipments within three years. improvement work to do at our Swedish production plants. During the In 2011, we reached 37 percent. Thanks to the investments we have summer, a new quenching line was installed in Borlänge. This extremade in increased high strength steel production capacity, I am conmely large project involving a great many people was carried out witvinced that we will achieve our goal. The capital expenditure projects hout disruptions in the ordinary operations. Thanks to skilled planning will be brought into commission during the first half of 2012. Location and implementation, we succeeded in carrying out the entire project close to the customers is an important component in achieving the on schedule, within the budgeted cost limits and, it is particularly goal, not least in the expanding markets of Asia and Latin America, pleasing to note, without a single industrial injury. I consider this to as is participation in finding new, innovative solutions in which our be clear evidence that, with the right approach, we can achieve much, products are included. Here, functionality, total economy and enviand that there is strength in the organization. SSAB wishes to be an ronmental performance go hand-in-hand. We are often involved as attractive knowledge-based company. Having safe, exciting and early as the design stage and are able to assist our customers in the stimulating workplaces helps us to develop a high-performance early development work. Through our annual Swedish Steel Prize organization and to attract new talent to our company. competition, we stimulate the development and use of high strength I am optimistic as regards SSAB’s future. We are continuing to steels, and the competition has demonstrated many innovative focus on creating a stronger, lighter and more sustainable world examples of more efficient use of steel. through a clear strategy which meets the challenges of tomorrow. In order to contribute to a more sustainable world, it is important that global carbon dioxide emissions be reduced. Our product offering is a major contribution to this adjustment. We also have a target that, by the end of 2012, our own carbon dioxide emissions under normal production conditions will be 2 percent lower per tonne of produced steel compared with the base year of 2008. This means that SSAB’s carbon dioxide emissions will be reduced by 130,000 Martin Lindqvist tonnes per year, which is equivalent to 200,000 cars being replaced President and CEO with eco-friendly cars. SSAB sustainability report 2011 Comments by the CEO 3 SSAB in a sustainable world rs 5– ea 25 00y yea 15–1 ❼ rs Recycling 0. 5– 5y ea rs ❶ Raw materials iron ore pellets ❷ steel plant Coal/Coke blast Electric arc furnace furnace ❻ Usage Alloys Coal slag ❸ by-products Distribution ❺ ❹ Continuous casting and rolling the steel industry plays a key role in the development of society, and SSAB’s niche products possess several advantages from a sustainability perspective. With efficient production, SSAB is well positioned in a global market where focus is placed on the environment and sustainable growth. SSAB’s focus on advanced high strength steels and quenched steels is contributing to the vision – A stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. 4 SSAB in context SSAB SuStAinABility rEpOrt 2011 Raw materials The steel industry is energy-intensive and dependent on natural resources. ❶ Responsibility in the supplier stage Increasingly stringent environmental demands experienced by SSAB’s Raw materials are SSAB’s most important customers are an important driving force behind the use of high strength purchases. The Swedish company LKAB steels. Achieving the same goals using fewer resources constitutes supplies iron ore pellets. Scrap metal is a prerequisite for sustainable growth. SSAB’s strategy unites economic purchased locally in the US. Metallurgical growth with sustainable development. coal is procured from two suppliers, one in Australia and one in the US. Injection coal is sourced from a mine in Russia, while coke comes from Japan. Alloys are purchased from some 30 suppliers. Work is underway to coordinate purchasing processes and introduce into contracts with suppliers principles regarding labor standards and human rights. Processing ❷ Efficient and safe steel works ❸ Market for by-products ❹ Continuous casting Two different processes are used in the proThe exact process control in the steel proIn the continuous casting line, large volumes duction of SSAB’s steels – iron-ore based duction processes give rise to by-products. of water are used to cool down the molten production in blast furnaces and scrapIn Sweden, SSAB Merox develops high value steel. The cooling water circulates in closed based production in electric arc furnaces. products based on by-products from the systems. The water is purified through sediBy constantly improving and increasing the steel operations. The work is aimed at returmentation and filtration before it leaves the efficiency of the various stages of the steel ning the by-products to the processes, plant area. The steel strands are cut into production, it is possible to mitigate the internally or through external sales, and slabs and placed on cooling racks before impact on the environment. Within the steel identifying new areas of use as alternatives being transported to the rolling mill for industry, a number of cooperation projects to depositing. processing into strip or plate. The heating are being conducted in order to reduce the furnaces use natural gas, coke oven gas, impact of production processes on the enviLPG, oil, and electricity ronment and climate. The safety of employees and contractor employees stands high on the agenda. Distribution Usage Recycling ❺ Efficient transportation and ❻ A stronger, lighter and more ❼ Part of the eco-cycle intelligent logistics sustainable world Steel is one of the most recycled materials Most of SSAB’s raw materials, slabs and SSAB’s high strength steels have many in the world. SSAB’s plants in the US proend-products are shipped by railway and areas of use in society. High strength steels duce steel which is based solely on recycled boat. The logistics departments have the build stronger, lighter and more durable scrap metal. A certain amount of coal and objective of making the transportation as solutions. From a life cycle perspective, the natural gas is used in the production proefficient as possible in order to save money high strength steels generate lower carbon cess, but electricity is mainly used for smeland help save the environment. The use of dioxide emissions than standard steels, while ting the steel scrap. All in all, carbon dioxide return freight between plants and shipping providing an improved total economy. emissions are less than 1/10 of the emisports is one way of achieving more efficient Achieving the same goals using fewer matesions generated when steel is produced transportation systems. Increasing load rials is important, not least in conjunction from iron ore capacity on the railways represents another with infrastructure development in the alternative. emerging economies. SSAB sustainability report 2011 SSAB in context 5 Driving forces and challenges The steel industry plays a central role in the society, and development needs in the emerging economies is an important driving force for SSAB. SSAB’s steels have several advantages for sustainable growth, where achieving the same goals using fewer resources is a prerequisite. The steel industry is energy-intensive, risk-filled and dependent on natural resources, and thus subject to environmental and safety standards. High strength steels for les are lighter and consume less fuel, or can Recycling and resource efficiency sustainable growth carry heavier loads, which reduces the Efficient use of resources has a bearing on High strength steels provide a number of journeys. both the economy and environment. Steel competitive advantage is one of the most recycled structural materiSteel is needed for infrastructure developRenewable energy is increasing als in the world. Obsolete steel structures give ment and growth around the world. At the Demand for competitive, renewable energy rise to new raw materials, instead of generasame time, demands are increasing for is growing in pace with an increased focus on ting waste. In addition to surplus energy, the conservation of resources and sustainable climate issues and higher energy prices. Steel steel production process also gives rise to development, which is to the advantage of is an important component in new technical a number of by-products. Instead of being high strength steels. solutions to harness nature’s renewable deposited, the byproducts can be processed resources. Steel is included in wind towers, into new materials with various areas of use, Reduced carbon footprint solar power plants and various types of for example slag which can replace burnt lime from transportation hydroelectric plants. The steel production in the cement and concrete industry. According to the UN, the global transportaprocesses also generate heat and energytion sector accounts for almost 25 percent rich gases which are utilized, among other Approximately 35 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions. With things, to supply district heating to private designs made of high strength steels, vehichouseholds. of all steel in the world is manufactured from recycled scrap metal. 6 SSAB in context SSAB sustainability report 2011 The environment and railway safety. Hyundai Rotem in South Korea develops and manufactures all types of railway vehicles. Thanks to Domex, Rotem has increased the safety and decreased the weight of its passenger trains. Domex 500 and 700 have been used in the framework of the carriages. Products manufactured using Domex are thinner compared with when standard steels are used, and consequently the weight of the carriages has been reduced by approximately 20 percent. “The reduced weight of the trains also greatly benefits our end-customers, since it reduces both fuel consumption and the impact on the environment,” says Gilsoo Chang at Rotem’s research and development center. The use of high strength steels also results in improved collision qualities; this is a critical factor as regards passenger trains, where safety requirements are extremely high. Challenges facing the steel industry rently takes place will become more restricGenerational shift and Carbon dioxide targets and tive. The system may impede or distort the competition for skills technical development competitiveness of the European steel induA number of companies in the industrial The global steel industry accounts for 4–5 stry on the global market. With growing sector are facing a significant generational percent of global carbon dioxide emissions. world opinion on climate issues, pressure is shift and are competing for skilled employIn Sweden, SSAB’s blast furnaces are high also increasing on the US and Asia for greaees in local markets which are critical for up on the list of the largest sources of ter regulation of carbon dioxide emissions. their business, as well as in an increasingly emissions in the country. With currently global labor market. SSAB is actively engaknown technology, carbon dioxide emissions Raw materials and suppliers ged in skills development and in managing a from iron-ore based steel production can be The price of iron ore pellets and coal is influgenerational shift in the organization. SSAB reduced only marginally. Increased demands enced by the balance between supply and shall be an attractive employer which offers for reduced carbon dioxide emissions require demand. In the long term, demand is increaopportunities for development and a safe new steel production technology. In addition, sing for efficient use of resources and utiliworkplace, even in risk-filled working envicarbon dioxide capture and storage is zation of by-products in both the producronments. required to achieve a more radical reduction tion and user stages. The ability of compain emissions. nies to impose requirements and monitor conditions at their suppliers represents an Emission rights and carbon important confidence issue. Stringent requidioxide restrictions rements regarding safe working conditions As from 2013, a greater number of industries are imposed, particularly in respect of the than today will be covered by the EU’s carbon raw materials industry, which has a reputadioxide emission rights trading system. The tion for a risk-filled working environment. free allocation of emission rights which curSSAB sustainability report 2011 SSAB in context 7 Stakeholders’ confidence is important for SSAB’s success SSAB has many different stakeholders. Their confidence in SSAB’s ability to manage risks and exploit opportunities is important for the Company’s development. Thus, SSAB maintains a continuous dialogue with the most important groups of stakeholders. It is important for a company to be aware of, and live up to, the outside world’s expectations. Accordingly, importance is attached to an open and active dialogue with the company’s stakeholders. Among SSAB’s stakeholders are: • Its shareholders • Its employees • Its customers • Society • Public agencies • Its suppliers The dialogue with SSAB’s stakeholders Stakeholder Forum Issues Read more on page Shareholders Investor meetings for shareholders • Sustainability strategy 4–14, 17–21, and analysts • Economic development 23–31, 33–39, 40 • Safety issues • Risks at suppliers • Climate issues Employees Performance and planning interviews • Feedback regarding results and 6–14, 33–39 Employee surveys performance Information meetings • Planning of development opportunities Cooperation with labor unions • Working environment and safety • Strategic issues Customers Knowledge Service Center, customer • Profitability and environmental 10–11 , 17–21, 23 seminars and trade fairs, Swedish Steel Prize advantages with high strength steels • E  xchanges of knowledge • On-time deliveries and quality Society Local consultation with residents, media, • Permit matters 24, 23–31, 41 environmental groups and politicians • Impact on the local community • Environmental impact Public agencies and Industry organizations, research cooperation • Emission rights trading and competition 23–31 organizations projects, consultation and negotiations in conditions permit matters • Technical developments • Reporting of environmental matters Suppliers Purchasing meetings, conferences, • C  ontract questions concerning human 40 visits to suppliers rights and the environment • On-time deliveries and quality 8 Our stakeholders SSAB sustainability report 2011 ”In our dialogue with SSAB, we have particularly addressed safety issues and the handling of suppliers. The steel industry is a high risk industry with a major impact on the environment and risk-filled working environments. The company addresses the production-related environmental impact, and also the positive environmental qualities of the products. An important challenge which SSAB must address relates to safety in general and, in particular, when it comes to contractor employees. The company needs to do more work on training its own employees and contractor employees as regards the importance of health and safety, in order to strengthen the safety culture and reduce the number of accidents. It is positive to see that SSAB is now communicating a zero tolerance policy and that measures are being taken. It is also positive that the company now includes contractor employees in its Group safety targets. Another important challenge which SSAB must address involves sustainability risks at suppliers, where the first step should be to clarify the management structure for handling suppliers and purchasing. SSAB has demonstrated a positive trend in its sustainability work over the past two years. We believe that a key to success for SSAB in this area lies in being open and Ylva Hannestad, Nordea, Analyst Responsible honest as regards the challenges facing the company and not to shy away investments and Governance from talking about them. It is thus pleasing to see that SSAB has demonstrated openness in the dialogue with its stakeholders.” Less is more. IKEA is a pioneer in the use of high strength steels for smart and environmentally friendly home furnishings. IKEA currently uses SSAB’s high strength steels in three products. SSAB is actively searching for markets outside its traditional ones. 2011 saw the launch of Ducol Tubes, which has been developed for the furniture industry. “We have chosen SSAB’s steel as it helps us to achieve the correct strength and quality, but at a lower weight. This reduces both the impact on the environment and distribution costs for the product. High strength steels represent a natural Photo: Pelle Lundberg way of getting more from less,” says Lars Almblad, a specialist at IKEA’s technical and materials department. SSAB sustainability report 2011 Our stakeholders 9 Driving force and a global leader within high strength steels A stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. SSAB’s vision is aimed at the customers’ end products being stronger, lighter and more durable than products manufactured using standard steels. This provides major advantages for the customers, for the environment, and for SSAB. Increase growth within niche products mature markets such as America and Unique sales organization The vision of a stronger, lighter and more Europe, the gradual transition from standard and unique brands sustainable world is based on the strategy steels to advanced high strength and quenHardox is probably the steel world’s best of being the leader within defined niche proched steels is continuing. In SSAB’s domesknown product brand. By marketing the ducts, i.e. advanced high strength steels and tic markets, i.e. markets where the company steel through strong product brands, SSAB quenched steels. Although these types of has significant local production, SSAB has a unique position on the steel market. steels generally are considerably more enjoys leading positions within standard Through the ”Hardox in my Body ” customer expensive than standard steels, they provide steels. In the Nordic region, SSAB is the program, the customers obtain a stamp advantages for the end customers in the leading supplier of strip products. In North of quality which is displayed on truck beds, form of increased durability and abrasion America, SSAB is the leading supplier of dumpers, and containers manufactured of resistance, lighter end product weight, while heavy plate. Maintenance of a leading posiHardox – a form of ingredient branding becoming significantly stronger than protion on the domestic markets constitutes which has aroused great interest. ducts produced using standard steels. Using SSAB works continuously to increase high strength steels often also lead to more interest in, and the development of, applicasimplified and efficient production processes If SSAB reduces carbon tions made of high strength steels. Thus, the and reduced use of material. Consequently, dioxide emissions by 2 percent Swedish Steel Prize competition is arranged the customer’s total economy is significantly per tonne produced steel, each year. Competition entries consist of improved when high strength steels are used products ranging from beds to harvesters this corresponds to the instead of standard steels. Thanks to the and trucks, which have been developed reduced use of material, the impact on the emissions generated by using high strength steels. Through this type environment is also reduced in all stages. 70,000 passengers flying of customer activity, long-term customer SSAB has adopted a strategic objective to and from Stockholm relations are strengthened. that niche products shall account for 50 to Thailand. percent of shipments in 2015. In 2011, high Efficient processes generate profitstrength steels accounted for 37 percent of ability and environmental gains total shipments. These include, for example, an important element of SSAB’s strategy. SSAB’s profitability is clearly linked to wear steels for mining and construction Here, proximity and the relationship with efficiency and cost control. Raw materials machinery, structural steels for the crane the customer, and short delivery times, and energy are major cost items in SSAB’s industry, and advanced high strength steels are of crucial importance. operations. More efficient production for safety components in passenger cars. reduces the use of energy and materials, More than merely steel which leads to lower costs, while at the New markets growing fastest SSAB’s strategy is based on more than same time mitigating the impact on the In the Chinese market, SSAB sells only niche merely steel. The customers are offered environment and climate. products. It is also there that demand for advanced services in the form of product SSAB is already one of the most efficient steel is increasing most rapidly. SSAB’s tarand process development together with steel producers in the world, but the objective get is that Asia shall account for 20 percent SSAB’s experts. The entire strategy is based is to achieve further reductions in carbon of niche products shipments in 2015. In 2011, on close cooperation with the customers. dioxide emissions at the blast furnace12 percent of niche products shipments By SSAB being involved at an early stage based plants. By the end of 2012, carbon went to the SSAB APAC business area. in the design and product development dioxide emissions per tonne of steel produThere is also a strong and growing interest work, the steel’s qualities can be utilized ced under normal production conditions in advanced high strength and quenched to best effect. This generates increased are to be reduced by 2 percent compared steels in other emerging markets, such as know-how both for the customers and for with the base year of 2008. For SSAB, this the Latin American mining industry. In more SSAB and distinguishes SSAB from other corresponds to a reduction of 130,000 steel companies. tonnes in carbon dioxide emissions per year. 10 Strategy and targets SSAB sustainability report 2011 » A stronger, lighter and more sustainable world « – SSAB’s vision A safe and attractive workplace Interaction between vision, The employees are crucial for continued values and strategy success, and SSAB’s goal is to strengthen The interaction between values, vision and the organization and be an attractive strategy is of crucial importance in the work employer. SSAB’s employees shall be of achieving the Group’s overall objectives. motivated, proud and have confidence in Together with its customers, SSAB will go SSAB acting responsibly in all situations. further than any other company to realize They must be able to develop in the the full value of stronger, lighter and more work and contribute to promoting a safe durable steel products. This is SSAB’s longworkplace. term vision. The conditions for achieving this SSAB is continously improving safety in are formulated in SSAB’s values: the workplace, with the aim of reducing by at • Customer’s business in focus: We always least 5 percent a year the number of injuries take an active interest in the customers’ SSAB is a member of the UN Global Comresulting in sick leave. Targets have also business and seek long-term relationspact, which with its ten principles regarding been formulated to strengthen the organihips. By sharing knowledge, together we corporate responsibility describes SSAB’s zation. The goal is to achieve and maintain a create value. approach in the areas of human rights, high level in terms of employee performance • True: We are dedicated and proud of what labor, the environment and anti-corruption. interviews and internal recruitment to we do. We build strong relationships by vacant managerial positions. In this way, being open-minded, straightforward and the individual is developed and the honest and by sharing information and organization’s strengths are utilized. knowledge. • Always ahead: We are result-oriented. To achieve the highest performance we always proactively seek to be innovative and enhance our expertise further. Vision Values Customer’s business in focus We always take an active interest in the customers’ business and seek long-term relationships. By sharing knowledge, together we create value. True We are dedicated and proud of what we do. We build strong relationships by being open-minded, straightforward and honest and by sharing information and knowledge. Always ahead We are result-oriented. To achieve the highest performance we always proactively seek to be innovative and enhance our expertise further. A stronger, lighter and more sustainable world External commitments Together with our customers, we will go further than anyone else in realizing the full value of lighter, stronger and more durable steel products. SSAB is a member of the UN Global Compact and supports the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. SSAB sustainability report 2011 Strategy and targets 11 SSAB’s targets SSAB has strategic tagets regarding its operations and also targets regarding the sustainablitity area. Further, the company has financial targets 1). The targets have been set with the aim of securing SSAB’s long-term development and profitability. STRATEGIC TARGETs Strong position World leader Safety Ensure strong position in Europe, in the niche segment within the Attractive employer based on being North America and Asia production, process development, one of the world’s safest steel innovation and sales companies and having a high performing organization with empowered employees Share of niche products Asia’s share of the Group’s of total shipments of total shipments 2015 niche products 2015 50 % 20 % Sustainability Targets Environment Social Social Social Reduction in carbon responsibility responsibility responsibility dioxide emissions per Annual reduction Percentage of employees Number of internal tonne of produced steel by in injuries resulting in conducting performance candidates for each 2012 (base year 2008) sick leave and planning reviews managerial position during the year 1) For financial targets, see page 10 in the SSAB Annual Report 2011 on www.ssab.com. 12 Strategy and targets SSAB sustainability report 2011 From overall vision to instructive guidelines SSAB has adopted an Environment and Sustainability Policy. The Policy covers the environmental and social aspects which play a key role in a sustainable development of SSAB’s business. SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics provides guidelines how SSAB acts vis-à-vis stakeholders and in the market. Coordination of the sustainability work was strengthened during the year. New position for coordination far reaching than laws and regulations. of the sustainability work SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics provides In 2011, a new position was established, guidance within: tasked with further improving work within • Employee health and safety various sustainability areas. The primary aim • Diversity and internationally recognized is to coordinate and develop sustainability labor law guidelines issues within the Group as regards the social • Business ethics and integrity and business ethics areas. • Human rights • Stakeholder and community relations The Environmental and • The environment Sustainability Policy sets the bar • Communication Kristin Nordström, CSR Director SSAB has adopted an Environmental and Sustainability Policy in order to support the SSAB has issued special Instructions regarday-to-day work in the organization. The ding the Giving and Acceptance of Bribes. Policy sets forth the most important ambiDiversity and equality of opportunity issues tions for SSAB’s sustainability work and are addressed in a separate policy. covers the environmental and social aspects that play a key role in a sustainable Continued focus on business ethics » The sustainability issues are development of SSAB’s business. During 2011, SSAB has continued to focus important and constitute an The Environmental and Sustainability Policy on business ethics. SSAB’s lawyers have iniin brief: tiated an internal work project focused, integral part of our operations. • SSAB shall continue to develop products among other things, on business ethics, with I hope to be able to contribute and services in cooperation with its the aim of preventing corruption and fraud. to further development of SSAB’s customers, while remaining actively comSSAB has actively provided information in mitted to operating as an environmenorder to strengthen and disseminate SSAB’s sustainability work and thereby tally sound and profitable business rules and guidelines. Several training courstrengthen SSAB as a responsible • SSAB attaches importance to efficient ses have been carried out focusing on supplier and employer. « use of raw materials and energy, while SSAB’s values, policies and guidelines. minimizing the generation of waste On a number of occasions in recent • SSAB shows respect for employees and years, SSAB has discovered that personnel their well-being by providing a safe and have abused their position or acted in a fulfilling working environment disloyal or criminal fashion. SSAB has there• Transparency and openness are upon acted to investigate the events and sought after concluded that ignorance or deliberate criminality have been involved. The conseThe Code of Business Ethics quences have been, for example, dismissal provides guidance and prosecution. SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics lays down SSAB’s lawyers have continued to hold guidelines for SSAB’s behavior vis-à-vis information and training sessions for the stakeholders and in the market. The provisales corps in order to emphasize that devisions of the Code take precedence over all ations from SSAB’s policies are unacceptaother policies on a business area or subsidible, and to underline the importance of ary level and, in certain cases, may be more business ethics. SSAB sustainability report 2011 Strategy and targets 13 Traverse crane training for Mats Janers in Borlänge. Ronnie Högberg, site manager, Borlänge. In 2010, SSAB APAC initiated a training Risk awareness and systematic systematic health and safety work is being course for its employees regarding SSAB’s basis for success gradually implemented at all production values, policies and guidelines, and the work Management systems and plans of action plants. In order to identify business ethics has continued in 2011. Thus far, most ensure that the Group carries out its work on risks, a whistleblower system is in place employees within the sales corps have taken critical sustainability issues in a systematic through which employees can report irreguthe course, and it will continue in order to fashion. Several different management larities and suspicions of criminal activities. provide the business area’s employees with systems and tools are used to effectively Environmental risks and working greater knowledge on these questions. control the operations in accordance environment risks are covered by SSAB’s In addition, personnel in SSAB EMEA’s with SSAB’s objectives, the Environmental internal risk controls and in internal audits. sales companies have received a review of and Sustainability Policy, and the Code of Insurable risks within the scope of SSAB’s SSAB’s most important policies and guide­ Business Ethics. Systems developed inproperty and liability insurance cover are lines from their respective controller. In SSAB house as well as third-party certified analyzed annually together with the insuAmericas, too, SSAB’s lawyers, in cooperation systems are in place. rance companies. Sound management of with the HR department, have held training The environmental and climate work is risks associated with injury to individuals and information sessions for employees taking place primarily within the scope of and damage to the environment and plants concerning applicable rules and ethical the ISO 14001 environmental management is a sine qua non for being able to take norms within SSAB. standard and via local energy management out insurance cover. systems. The OHSAS 18001 standard for 14 Strategy and targets SSAB sustainability report 2011 Corporate governance Corporate governance within SSAB involves continuous development of rules and routines that ensure transparency, a clear allocation of responsibilities between various company bodies, and well-functioning board work. SSAB is listed on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm and applies to the Swedish Code on Corporate Governance. External and internal regulations things, on the members of the Board of have an appropriate composition which is With its registered office in Sweden, SSAB’s Directors, compensation to the Board, as characterized by diversity and breadth as corporate governance is regulated by exterwell as guidelines for compensation to the regards the experience, expertise and backnal rules and regulations consisting of, President and senior executives. Pending ground of its members. Five of the directors among other things, the following Swedish the annual general meeting, shareholders are independent in relation to both the statutes: the Swedish Companies Act, the are able to submit proposals to the NomiCompany and SSAB’s major shareholders. Swedish Accounting Act, and the Swedish nation Committee or submit other matters The Board is responsible for the internal Annual Reports Act. Also, as a listed comto be addressed, by following the instruccontrol and has established a process for pany, SSAB complies with Nasdaq OMX tions available on www. ssab.com. internal control based on the internationally Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers and the established framework from The Committee Swedish Code on Corporate Governance. Corporate governance of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway In addition, there are a number of interCorporate governance within SSAB involves Commission (COSO). The process is based on nal rules, regulations and policies that affect continuous development of rules and routifive components: control environment, risk corporate governance including: the bynes which ensure transparency, a clear alloassessment, control activities, information laws, the Procedure Rules for the Board of cation of responsibilities between various and communication, as well as monitoring. Directors with instructions for the President, company bodies, and well-functioning The Chairman of the Board is responinstructions for Board committees, and a board work, in accordance with the Swedish sible for presiding over the work of the finance manual (Financial Guidelines), as Code on Corporate Governance. Board, represents SSAB on owner issues, well as the Finance Policy. The internal rules and is responsible for the evaluation of the also include SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics. The Board of Directors work of the Board. The Chairman of the SSAB’s Board of Directors currently compriBoard also serves as the link between the Shareholder governance ses nine members elected by the general Board and the President. The general meeting is the Company’s higmeeting, of whom one is a woman. SSAB’s For the complete Corporate Goverhest decision-making body, at which sharePresident is also a member of the Board. nance Report, read pages 48–53 in the holder influence in the Company is exerciTaking into consideration the Company’s SSAB Annual Report 2011 on www.ssab.com. sed. At the annual general meeting (AGM) operations, phase of development and the shareholders decide, among other circumstances in general, the Board shall Shareholders/ Nomination Committee General Meeting External auditors Board Compensation Committee Audit Committee Further information regarding corporate governance of Directors in SSAB is available on www.ssab.com, including the following information: President & Other Group • Routines regarding the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee Internal audit (when the AGM must be held, notice to attend and registration procedure, as well as which important decisions must be taken at the AGM) Business areas and subsidiaries • Information from SSAB’s previous Annual General Distribution Meetings (since 2005), including notices, minutes, Business areas operations addresses by the President and communiqués • The by-laws SSAB SSAB SSAB EMEA Americas APAC Tibnor • Corporate governance reports from previous years • Information regarding the Nomination Committee SSAB sustainability report 2011 Corporate governance 15 Economic value creation ssAb’s oﬀering SSAB’s niche products – advanced high strength steels and quenched steels – provide advantages in the form of stronger, lighter and more durable solutions. By-products from the steel production processes are used in new, innovative solutions which close the eco-cycle and creates new, exciting markets for SSAB. High strength steels provide improved total economy and save the environment SSAB’s niche products provide advantages in the form of stronger, lighter and more durable solutions. this leads to improved total economy, a reduced impact on the environment and products with a longer lifespan. the by-products from the steel production processes are used in new, innovative solutions which contribute to closing the eco-cycle and creates new, exciting markets for SSAB. improved environment and ment of new infrastructure is taking place while at the same time developing the economy in all stages in emerging economies. At the same time, markets in north and latin America and SSAB’s focus on high strength steels reprenatural resources are limited and increased Asia through advanced offerings based on sents a focus on an improved environment importance attached to achieve the same SSAB’s cutting edge expertise. the new cenand economy in all stages. From a life cycle goal using less material. the automotive ters will enable more customers to develop perspective, the high strength steels geneindustry develops lighter cars with greater production efficiency and product design in rate lower carbon dioxide emissions than load capacity in order to reduce fuel conclose cooperation with SSAB. local process standard steels. light and durable steel sumption. Steel is also included in wind development within the various production designs save material and energy, both towers, solar power plants, and various units is also carried out at SSAB’s major in production and the user stage. High types of hydroelectric plants. production plants. strength steels are stronger than standard steels. Consequently, less steel is used in ssAb shall lead the development growing market for the manufacture of a product, which also Since 2008, SSAB has a research and high strength steels reduces emissions. Development Council tasked with leading in 2011, SSAB delivered 1,713 thousand tonthe development and realizing the potential nes of niche products, representing 37 (32) of high strength steels. the Council coordipercent of the company’s shipments. SSAB’s A dumper bed made of nates work within the area and is entrusted strategy is to increase shipments of niche SSAB’s high strength steels with ensuring a continuous transfer of techproducts to 50 percent of total shipments is 8 tonnes lighter than if nology between the business areas. in 2015. through an established dialogue betmanufactured using standard steels. Fuel consumption is ween SSAB and its customers, new products A truck bed with a frame are developed which meet the needs of the reduced by 10 percent. various markets. in October 2010, SSAB’s made of SSAB’s high strength Knowledge Service Center inaugurated a steels becomes approximnew research and development center in ately 1,300 kg lighter than if SSAB’s high strength steels have many Montpelier, iowa, uSA, and a new research made of standard steels. this different areas of use within most industrial and development center was opened in sectors. Many of the applications have Kunshan, China at the beginning of 2012. means a 30-tonne reduction a direct role to play in the transition towards the aim is to strengthen SSAB’s position in carbon dioxide emissions a more sustainable society. A rapid developas a leading producer of high strength steels, over the lifespan of the truck. new tool demonstrates customer benefit. upgrading a trailer, a bed, or a container to Hardox or Domex has advantages: it saves money and results in a reduced impact on the environment. With a new calculation tool it is possible to show exactly how great the savings can be. When SSAB’s sales staff meet customers, they can use the SSAB instant valuecalc software to show what the customer will gain by switching to Hardox or Domex. the tool shows how much fuel can be saved, by how much the load can be increased, and the size of the reductions in emissions. SSAB SuStAinABility rEpOrt 2011 SSAB’s offering 17 swedish steel prize » Deere & Company (USA) –Harvester. With the help of advanced high strength steels combined with a carefully thought out and innovative design, Deere & Company has developed harvesters with improved productivity, which at the same time satisfy new environmental standards. The harvester is lighter and has a greater harvesting width, while the new cutting table is more flexible and better follows the contours of the ground, thereby increasing the yield compared with conventional designs. « 18 SSAB’s offering SSAB HÅLLBARHETSredovisning 2011 OMX GES Sustainability Index. The Stockholm Stock Exchange OMX Nasdaq, together with the analyst firm GES Investment Services, has produced a number of indices based on various sustainability criteria. SSAB is included in three of these indices; OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index, OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index, and OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Ethical Index. The companies included in the indices have qualified for inclusion through sound preparedness within the areas of the environment, social issues and corporate governance. Ethibel Excellence Investment Register. Since 2008, SSAB has been included in Ethibel’s Excellence Investment Register, an investment forum for shareholders who wish to include consideration of the environment, social issues and corporate governance in their investment decisions. Inclusion in the register is based on analyses conducted by Vigeo, an established analyst firm for responsible investments, with the ultimate decision being taken by an independent panel of experts. SSAB’s inclusion in the register was confirmed at the beginning of 2011. Strong position in China Operations that create value Nearly one half of the steel produced in the world is used in China, SSAB plays a vital role in the communities where the company operawhich is considered the engine of the global steel market. SSAB has tes. SSAB thereby contributes directly and indirectly to the developstrengthened its positions in Asia, and particularly in China, in order ment of these communities. An overarching goal is to generate a to be able to offer the region various high strength steel products. sound return to SSAB’s shareholders and to invest in continued growth. SSAB strategic target is that 20 percent of the shipments of niche SSAB is also an important employer in the localities where it operates products will go to Asia by 2015. By investing in a finishing line in and contributes to the community through salaries, social security Kunshan, SSAB can reduce lead times and optimize the products contributions and, in the case of healthy earnings, through profitbased on the customers’ needs. With the new research and developsharing with the employees. Purchases from suppliers contribute to ment center in Kunshan, SSAB will become an important partner for job creation outside the company and stimulate other local econoChinese customers, who will benefit from the knowledge and expemies. In addition, taxes and interest payments to lenders contribute rience available within the Group. In 2011, 214 thousand tonnes of to the financial system. niche products were delivered to Asia, corresponding to 12 percent of shipments. Sales per business area Shipments Thousand tonnes 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 SSAB EMEA 40% SSAB Americas 38% 2,000 SSAB EMEA 40% SSAB APAC 6% SSAB Americas 38% Tibnor 16% 1,000 Standard steel SSAB APAC 6% Tibnor 16% 0 07 08 09 10 11 Niche steel SSAB sustainability report 2011 SSAB’s offering 19 foCUs: HoUsEHoLDing of REsoURCEs Efficiency creates value throughout the value chain through efficiency, innovation and product development SSAB saves both its own resources and those of its customers. When achieving the same objectives, using a smaller amount of raw material and supplies, economic benefit is created throughout the value chain. From a global perspective, SSAB’s processes and products lead to a reduced need for energy, raw materials, and finished steel. High percentage of recycled electricity needs of the Swedish operations. and against the alternative cost of waste raw materials in addition, district heating is supplied to management and depositing. SSAB uses approximately 20 percent scrap over 70 percent of the households in metal in conjunction with steel production in Oxelösund and luleå and to 15 percent in the American operations, Sweden, and 100 percent in the uS. Conseof the households in Borlänge. recycled scrap metal is used quently, recycled scrap metal accounts for 44 percent of total production, which is a new markets for by-products as the sole raw material. high percentage from a global perspective. thanks to the exact control of the steel prothe Swedish operations only have minor duction processes, by-products are generaEfficient transportation opportunities to increase the percentage of ted which are well-defined, of a high quality, and intelligent logistics recycled scrap metal. However, recycling of and thereby can be sold externally. in SweMost of SSAB’s raw materials, slabs, and the scrap generated in the steel production den, SSAB Merox develops high-quality proend products are transported by railway process is possible. this reduces raw mateducts based on by-products from the steel and boat. the logistics departments have rial costs and carbon dioxide emissions operations. Examples include Hyttsten for the objective of making the transportation since less hot metal need be produced. road construction, the cement and concrete as efficient as possible in order to save Within SSAB, a number of substitution materials Merit 5000 and Merolit, paddex resources and help save the environment. projects are underway in which the volume for riding tracks, as well as the organic plant the use of return freight between plants of finished steel relative to hot metal will be fertilizer, M-kalk. Another example is Black and shipping ports is one way of achieving increased. iron, which is sold for the manufacture of more efficient transportation systems; ferrite magnets, which are included in almost increasing load capacity on the railways SSAB’s processes deliver all modern electronic devices. represents another alternative. SSAB has Within the scope of MEFOS, SSAB is participated in several projetcs where the district heating to 70 percent engaged in active research work together payload has increased significantly. the of the residents in Oxelösund with other parties in order to identify new wagons of the pellet trains which operate and luleå. areas in which by-products can be used as between lKAB in Kiruna and SSAB in luleå, raw materials. For example, trials are taking and which are manufactured of high internal recycling reduces purchases place to enrich vanadium in a special slag strength steels, is an example. the payload of coal and electricity which can be sold for further extraction of has increased by 25 percent when changOther materials can also be returned vanadium, which is a valuable alloy within ing for using SSAB’s high strength steels directly to the production process. Certain steel production. the Swerea MEFOS vilD instead of standard steels. waste products which contain coal and/or project was awarded the inspiration prize iron can be returned, and in this way SSAB 2011 by the Swedish recycling industries’ Durable products reduces waste from the production process Association. SSAB’s advanced high strength steels and the need for new coal and pellets. the the drive is to identify new external provide advantages in the form of stronger, energy-rich coke oven and blast furnace markets for SSAB’s residual products, and lighter and more durable solutions. this gases which cannot be used in the steel also to develop new ways of using material results in an improved total economy, a production are used in combined heat and internally in SSAB’s own processes. the reduced impact on the environment, and power plants, among other things to supply value of doing so can be measured against a longer lifespan of the products. SSAB with approximately 50 percent of the the cost of purchasing equivalent material 20 Focus: Householding of resources SSAB SuStAinABility rEpOrt 2011 We have reduced the weight without reducing durability. tremac manufactures equipment for the forestry industry in Chile. tremac needed log trailers which were lighter, stronger and safer in order to cope with an increased load. Everything from chassis to bracing on the new trailers is produced using Domex 700. the trailer is now 20 percent lighter and can carry an additional 800 kilo load. ”We have reduced the weight without reducing durability. Although the price of the trailer has increased by 15 percent, customers are waiting in line. We expect the wagons to last longer and the user to save money, since the payload increases and fewer trucks are needed”, says marketing manager rafael. SSAB SuStAinABility rEpOrt 2011 Focus: Householding of resources 21 The environment SSAB’ SSAB’ss environmental work SSAB’s environmental strategy is long-term and is based on efficiency improvements and innovation in order to mitigate the environmental impact from production. industry-wide cooperation is important in order to identify the solutions of tomorrow. Strategic environmental work Steel production involves the large scale use of energy and resources, and has a significant impact on the environment, both globally and locally. SSAB’s environmental strategy is long-term and is based on efficiency improvements and innovation in order to mitigate the environmental impact from production. industry-wide cooperation is important in order to identify the solutions of tomorrow. Important environmental aspects The Environmental Council each location with production plants has Steel production involves the large scale coordinates strategy identified its most important environmental use of energy and resources and has a sigthe Group has a joint organization, the issues. targeted activities are carried out nificant impact on the external environment. environmental Council, for coordinating within these areas in order to achieve improAccording to the international energy issues concerning the external environment. vements. Self-inspection programs ensure Agency, ieA, the global steel industry jointly the work of the environmental Council monitoring of the local environment at all of accounts for 4-5 percent of global carbon focuses on overarching and strategic enviSSAB’s production plants, e.g. by collecting dioxide emissions. in Sweden, SSAB’s blast ronmental work, and monitoring of the work. water, air and noise samples. the results are furnaces are included in the list of the in 2011, the Council’s work primarily addresreported to the relevant supervisory. largest sources of emission in the country. sed energy and climate issues and the way SSAB’s steel works are among the most in which they are to be coordinated between Development driven by efficient in the world, but there is still room different functions. the environmental research cooperation for further improvement. Council, which meets each quarter, includes Within the steel industry, a number of diffethe impact on the local environment in representatives from all business areas and rent cooperation projects are underway the vicinity of SSAB’s plants has decreased is chaired by SSAB’s environmental Director. aimed at reducing the environmental impact significantly over recent decades. technical During 2011, local environmental councils and carbon footprint from production prodevelopments and increasingly stringent were also set up. cesses. the most important cooperation external demands dictate constant improvepartners are: ments in the operations. the most important Operative environmental work • the industry cooperation project, ulCoS environmental aspects for SSAB are: takes place locally (ultra-low Carbon dioxide Steelmaking) • reduced emissions into the air of carbon the objective is that the business areas • the Swedish energy Agency dioxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides themselves shall handle the day-to-day • the institutions Swerea MeFoS, Swerea and dust environmental work. each business area and KiMAB and iVl Swedish environment • reduced emissions into water of nitrogen subsidiary has a separate environmental institute and suspended substances department with responsibility for monito• the priSMA skills center • efficient use of raw materials and energy ring compliance with laws and agreements • Mistra in all stages and for handling permit matters. it is also • the Swedish Steel producers’ • A reduction in the volume of process responsible for taking measurements and Association and eurofer waste sent for depositing the reporting of environmental data. • uS Department of energy All manufacturing units work with • American iron and Steel institute (AiSi) environment management systems that are • the World Steel Association (WSA) certified in accordance with iSo 14001 and Environmental work in 2011 • energy recycling in Finspång • SSAB Merox operations established in luleå • reduced dust and noise in Montpelier and oxelösund • Application regarding new emission rights in the eu’s 2013–2020 trading period • System for monitoring and reporting carbon dioxide emissions in SSAB Americas • Demonstration plant for halved carbon footprint SSAB SuStAinABility report 2011 SSAB’s environmental work 23 The new quenching line in Borlänge. Environmental permits for the operations Permitted production at the Swedish plants In Sweden, the Land and Environmental Court establishes conditions Permitted Production for SSAB’s operations, a process which is affected by decisions taken Thousand tonnes Locality production 2011 within the EU as regards inter alia environmental legislation. In the US, Coke Luleå 1,100 727 the Federal Government and the US Environmental Protection Oxelösund 530 424 Agency play a corresponding role. SSAB’s operations are subject to Hot metal Luleå 1) 2,121 environmental permits with hundreds of environmental conditions Oxelösund 2,000 1,119 governing, among other things, production levels, emissions into the Crude steel Luleå 3,000 1,930 air and water, noise levels, and rules regarding deposition sites. Oxelösund 1,900 1,066 All production units comply with their respective local environHot-rolled steel Borlänge 3,200 2,022 mental requirements and the Group holds mandatory environmental Oxelösund 820 595 damage insurance as well as liability insurance covering damage to Pickled steel Borlänge 2,500 1,350 third parties. The maximum permitted production levels for the SweCold-rolled steel Borlänge 1,400 896 dish operations are shown in the table. In North America, production Annealed steel Borlänge 650 484 levels are determined in the form of maximum permitted hourly proMetal-coated steel Borlänge 680 390 duction volumes. Organic-coated Borlänge 140 84 products Köping 30 16 Finspång2) 40 23 1) Not relevant. 2) Unit million m2. 24 SSAB’s environmental work SSAB sustainability report 2011 FOCUS: EMISSION RIGHTS tougher climate goals – a challenge for the steel industry Commencing 2013, more industries will be covered by the eu’s carbon dioxide emission rights trading system, at the same time as the emissions ceiling will be reduced. the current free allocation of emission rights will become more restrictive. the same rules will apply throughout the eu, but the system may distort the european steel industry’s competitiveness on the global market. New trading period 2013–2020 and where there is no product benchmark, Consequences for the steel industry Commencing 2013, the eu will enter into plants will obtain an allocation as if they used the target for the period 2013–2020 is a new emission rights trading period. the natural gas as fuel. ambitious, and the european steel industry period will extend until 2020. the eu is now faces major challenges due to the reduction setting a lower ceiling for greenhouse gas Steering towards increased efficiency in the emissions ceiling. in steel production, emissions. the emissions ceiling is being set if a plant applies to obtain emission rights carbon dioxide emissions are not merely in such a manner that the eu guarantees to produce 1,000 tonnes of hot metal, the energy-related; rather, coal is also an attainment of its goal of a 20 percent intention is that the allocation will correessential reduction agent in the blast furnareduction in emissions by 2020, compared spond to the emissions of the most efficient ces. through the thermochemical process, with 1990. in addition, new sectors are plants in the eu, when producing the same a given quantity of carbon dioxide is unacovered by the trading system. emission volume. if the plant in question is less effivoidably generated for each tonne of steel rights may be allocated free of charge to cient, the consequence will be that it has an produced. thus, the ceiling on emissions industries which operate on the global maremission rights deficit. it will then have to also becomes a ceiling on production, if the ket and which risk transferring production purchase the remaining portion in the marsteel manufacturer does not buy emission outside the eu if the costs become too high. ket, at the prevailing market price. the funrights in the market. the steel industry is one of those industries. damental thinking behind the system is that Very few steel producers are expected previously, allocations to the steel induit will ultimately become cheaper to increase to have sufficient free emission rights. the stry were based on production capacity data the efficiency of the operations than to product benchmarks have been set low and, for each plant. For the next period, the allopurchase emission rights, and that the best in the case of hot metal, even lower than the cation will take place based on various proplants will be favored. very best plants in the eu. one consequence duct benchmarks, i.e. emissions per produced the same regulatory regime will apply of the new regulatory regime is that organic unit, where the 10 percent most efficient prothroughout the eu, which is a change compagrowth will be possible only if companies are ducers in europe will constitute the norm. the red with the current trading period in which willing to pay for increased marginal costs in steel industry is covered by benchmarks as national rules have been applied. the allocathe form of emission rights. regards coke, sinter, hot metal, as well as lowtion of emission rights is decided upon in 2012, alloy and high-alloy steel crude steel. As based on applications submitted in 2011. regards processes which use or produce heat FACTS EU’s climate targets 2020 FACTS New features for the 2013-2020 trading period • to reduce greenhouse gas emissions within the eu by 20% • new allocation rules based on benchmarks compared with 1990 – 30% if other countries follow suit for different products • Consumption of primary energy to be reduced by 20% • Benchmarks favor those who are best (enhanced efficiency) • uniform rules throughout the eu • renewable energy to increase from the current 8.5% to 20% • Fewer available emission rights • 10% renewable vehicle fuel Renewable energy Greenhouse gas emissions 8.5% 20% -20% SSAB SuStAinABility report 2011 Focus: emission rights 25 Improvement work is continuing within the environmental area The 2011 environmental year was characterized by climate issues. Extensive work took place due to the EU’s new emission rights trading period. SSAB has begun reporting its carbon dioxide emissions also within the American operations. The ULCOS research cooperation project has taken an important step forward and many initiatives are being carried out at SSAB’s plants. Material efficiency and reduced waste SSAB Merox establishes 25 percent. The plant is being built adjacent During the year, measures were taken to operations in Luleå to ArcelorMittal’s steelworks in Florange, achieve improved utilization of raw materials SSAB Merox AB has a long history within France. SSAB is one of the co-financiers of and a reduction in the volume of waste sent SSAB. As early as the 1970s, the first initiatithe project, which is dependent on financial to deposition sites. Through a research proves were taken to utilize by-products from support from the EU. The plant will be gram supported by Mistra, methods are steel production. During 2010, Merox was brought into commission in 2015. being studied for processing vanadium in given an expanded mandate to coordinate SSAB is also participating in the ULCOS slag. The vanadium content restricts the these activities throughout SSAB EMEA, and project entitled HISARNA, in which a pilot possibility to use the slag for various exteroperations were established in Luleå in 2011. plant has been built at Tata Steel’s works in nal purposes due to the fact that, in certain The practical production operations are the Netherlands. The process is based on situations, it can have a negative impact largely handled by contractors, but during the use of coal instead of coke and iron ore on the environment. Vanadium is, though, the year focus has been placed on identifyinstead of pellets; consequently no coking a valuable alloy within steel manufacturing. ing logical interfaces and gradually transferplant or pellet plant is required. Here, too, In Luleå, trials have been initiated to enrich ring the operations to SSAB’s own managecarbon dioxide capture and storage is requivanadium in a separate slag product, which ment. The motivation is to identify new red in order to achieve the target of halving can subsequently be sold for further extracexternal markets for SSAB’s by-products, carbon dioxide emissions. SSAB is playing tion of the vanadium. In Oxelösund, a worldand also to develop new methods for recyca central role in Swedish carbon storage unique method has begun to be applied ling material internally in SSAB’s own proprojects supported by the Swedish Energy whereby 90 percent of the coal-rich dust cesses. Agency. separated from one of the blast furnace’s gases (referred to as flue dust) is returned Energy recycling in Finspång SSAB publishes results from CDP to the blast furnace. The need to purchase In Finspång, SSAB and the municipality have For the fourth consecutive year, SSAB injection coal is thereby reduced. Since the signed an agreement regarding the recycparticipated in the extensive questionnaire flue dust was previously deposited, deposiling of waste energy from the incineration survey from the Carbon Disclosure Project tion site space is also saved. of solvents from SSAB’s plant. The recycled (CDP), which evaluates the climate work of energy will be transferred to the municipal companies. The results are public informaReduced dust and noise district heating network and Finspång will be tion and available on SSAB’s website at During the year, work began on expanding able to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions www.ssab.com and from CDP. The initiative the capacity for capturing dust from the by 4,000 tonnes per year. has been backed by international and steel works in Montpelier. The project is Swedish investors since 2003, and more expected to be completed in 2013 and will Demonstration plant for halved than 2,500 companies took part in this further improve the working environment. carbon footprint year’s survey. SSAB’s score for 2011 was In Oxelösund, SSAB is continuing to coopeWithin the steel industry’s research coope77 (78) out of a maximum of 100. This score rate with the port and the municipality in ration project, ULCOS, work began during is regarded as affirmation of the company’s order to reduce the occurrence of dust the year on the construction of a demontransparency. around the operations. In Oxelösund, meastration plant at which the objective is to sures have been taken to reduce noise reduce by half carbon dioxide emissions New climate requirements in the US levels around the plant. The most important from steel production. This will be achieved In 2010, the US Congress voted down a promeasure was to equip the smoke stack at through the capture and storage of carbon posal for a carbon dioxide emission rights the power plant with a more efficient sound dioxide from process gases. At the same trading system. However, the US Environmedamper. time, remaining energy-rich gases will be ntal Protection Agency (EPA) is continuing returned to the blast furnace, which will theto develop the framework. The first stage reby be able to reduce the use of coke by involves increased monitoring and reporting 26 Environmental work during the year SSAB sustainability report 2011 of existing emissions and, in the longer term, Protection Agency (EPA) and relates to manner not included in the original plan – it may potentially result in increased energy emissions into the air. In addition, the new to close a deposition site at the Blötberget costs for steel producers. Both Montpelier permit resolves many earlier problems relamine. By refraining from planting a forest, and Mobile have developed systems for ting to reporting routines. The permit is for the biological diversity has proved to be sigcompiling the emissions data requested five years. nificant. SSAB has also produced a sample by the EPA. testing plan in order to study any possible Application for new emission rights contaminants around the Dannemora mine. Mercury During the year, intensive work took place in The EPA is planning to introduce a new limit connection with applications for free emisFollow-up of incidents on mercury emissions from electric arc fursion rights for the 2013–2020 trading period. The leachate from a deposition site in naces. In order to be able to determine the One change compared with the preceding Oxelösund, which during 2010 proved to limit, nine companies with electric arc furtrading period is that available emission contain cyanide, is now being handled in nace operations in the US, of which SSAB rights will be reduced year on year. Applicaseparate collection systems. was one, were instructed to compile data. tions are being made in respect of Luleå, In connection with the tsunami and the The measurements, which were carried out Oxelösund and Borlänge. A novel feature this nuclear power breakdown in Fukoshima, in Mobile, were extensive. The requested year is that LuleKraft is also applying for free SSAB’s five employees in Japan were given the information was submitted to the EPA emission rights. LuleKraft operates a combiopportunity to relocate southwards with their in March. ned power and heat plant which is owned in families. None of them chose to relocate. No equal shares by the SSAB Group and Luleå radioactive contamination could be demonPermit matters municipality. Energy is derived from process strated at SSAB’s product depot in Japan. In November 2010, the Land and Environgases from SSAB’s steel works in Luleå. The In March, a discharge of benzene mental Court issued a permit to increase applications were submitted in September into the sea occurred at SSAB’s port in the coke production in Luleå from 0.8 to 1.1 mil2011 and decisions from the EU Commission Oxelösund. The discharge was quickly discolion tonnes and the production of slabs from are expected during 2012. vered and handled in accordance with pres2.5 to 3.0 million tonnes. SSAB utilized the cribed routines and reported immediately to new permit in February 2011. SSAB’s previously owned mines the County Administrative Board. An investiA new ‘Title V’ permit has been obtained SSAB has previously conducted mining opegation was carried out within one week, in respect of SSAB’s plant in Mobile. The rations at a number of sites in Bergslagen. which was also sent to the County Adminispermit was issued by the US Environmental During 2011, it was possible – in a positive trative Board. SSAB sustainability report 2011 Environmental work during the year 27 More efficient processes reduce the impact on the environment 1. From iron ore to steel Coal/Coke Iron ore pellets Blast furnace LD converter Raw materials Hot metal Crude steel Coal undergoes dry distillation in the coking plant in the blast furnace, the iron ore pellets are mixed in the lD converter, the carbon content of the hot to produce coke. energy-rich gas is formed which with coke, lime and additives. liquid hot metal and metal is reduced through the addition of oxygen can be used as fuel in furnaces and combined heat slag are poured off from the lower part of the furwhich binds the carbon. Contaminants are reduced and power plants. other usable by-products nace. the slag is separated and constitutes an through the use of lime. the process creates a surinclude tar, ammonium sulfate, benzene, sulfur important by-product. the energy-rich gas which plus of heat, and scrap metal is added to achieve and sulfuric acid. the dust content in the emissions exits from the top of the blast furnace, and also cooling. From the lD converter, the steel is poured from the coking plant is measured and reduced to the coke oven gas, is purified and used as a source into steel ladles, where alloys are added. the tema minimum. of energy in the steel production. this meets perature and composition of the steel are fineiron ore pellets from lKAB are transported by approximately 50 percent of the electrical power tuned. one half of the slag from the converter is rail to luleå and from there by ship to oxelösund. needs in the Swedish operations. in addition, returned to the blast furnaces. the slag contains the iron ore in the pellets is magnetite, which emits district heating is delivered to external parties. 15–20 percent iron and 40 percent lime, which heat during production; this result in a lower use reduces the need to purchase iron ore and of energy compared with hematite-based pellet limestone. production. 2. From scrap steel to steel Scrap steel Electric arc furnace Raw materials Crude steel in north America, scrap steel is purchased in the Scrap steel is smelted in electric arc furnaces has reduced the quantity of deposited waste and open market. SSAB’s two electric steel plants in where the smelted scrap becomes new crude steel. replaced up to 60 percentage of purchased coal. Montpelier and Mobile have been located based on Mobile and Montpelier have twin furnaces in which A certain quantity of coal and natural gas is used in the potential market and access to scrap metal raw the scrap in one of the vessels is pre-heated using the electric arc furnace, which generates carbon material. this strategy minimizes the environmental natural gas, while the scrap in the second vessel is dioxide. However, mainly due to the fact that scrap impact of transportation since all plants have smelted using electricity through an electric arc steel is smelted using electricity, the volume of caraccess to railways. in north America, the inland being formed with an extremely high temperature bon dioxide is far less than when steel is produced waterway system is also used. when the high tension voltage is connected. recyfrom iron ore. cled coal residue is used as a source of coal. this 28 environmental impact during the production process SSAB SuStAinABility report 2011 Ladle metallurgy Processing in ladle metallurgy, the crude steel is finely adjusted in accordance to specific Coal recipes and among other things, through the addition of alloying materials. Alloys Whether the steel is to be hard or soft is determined in the ladle metallurgy Temperature process. the SSAB recipe books contain almost 500 different steel grades. in the continuous casting line, the steel is converted from liquid to solid form. the water used for cooling circulates in closed systems and is purified through Continuous casting line sedimentation and filtration before leaving the area. the steel strands are cut into slabs, which are subsequently rolled into strip or plate. the heating furnaces use coke oven gas, lpG, oil and electrical power. in north America, the various heating furnaves for steel slabs primarily use natural gas as a source of energy. the combustion generates certain emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Rolling www.ssab.com/en/Investor--Media/About-SSAB/ Steel-making-process/The-metallurgical-process/ Steel processes The blast furnace process pellets, high-quality coke, and efficient protwo different processes are used in the progenerates carbon dioxide cesses in which the blast furnaces produce duction of SSAB’s steels – ore-based in Steel production within SSAB eMeA is blast without disruption. A large number of usable blast furnaces and scrap-based in furnace-based. Hot metal is produced by the by-products, such as heating, gas, slag and electric arc furnaces. the processes have reduction of iron ore, through coal and coke dust, are also produced in order to utilize as different conditions from an environmental being added to the blast furnaces. the promuch material as possible. and carbon footprint perspective. the cess gives rise to carbon dioxide. With current impact on the environment can be mitigatechnology, it is not possible to produce steel Less carbon dioxide with recycled steel ted by constantly improving and increasing without carbon dioxide being formed. Steel is one of the most recycled materials the efficiency of the various stages the process has been continuously in the world. SSAB’s plants in the uS produce of the steel production process. SSAB’s developed and improved to become extresteel based exclusively on recycled scrap work is also aimed at reducing waste by mely efficient, with waste energy being utilimetal. A certain amount of coal and natural recycling by-products in the processes zed in the form of district heating and for the gas is used in the production process, but or by identifying new areas of use as an production of electricity. international commainly electricity is used for smelting the alternative to deposition. parisons show that SSAB’s blast furnaces are scrap steel. All in all, carbon dioxide emisat the forefront as regards low carbon dioxide sions are less than one-tenth of the emisemissions per tonne of hot metal. there are sions generated in conjunction with iron several reasons for this: the use of highore-based steel production. grade raw materials in the form of iron ore SSAB SuStAinABility report 2011 environmental impact during the production process 29 Electricity Oil+LPG+NG District heating Electricity 690 kWh 696 kWh 184 kWh 140 kWh Others 106 kg Materials and energy balance as well as carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide emissions 1,264 kg Cool and Coke 387 kg “To gas” 628 kg emissions from the production of one tonne of steel in the SSAB Group in 2011. Purchased Scrap 544 kg By-products 316 kg the flows also include the Blast Furnaces and Electric Processes and heat and power plants in Arc Furnaces furnaces 742 kg luleå and oxelösund, which primarily use residual gases Iron ore 907 kg Steel 1,000 kg from SSAB’s operations. Heat and power plant 522 kg Oxygen 84 m3 Argon Air Water Waste heat Waste and useful by-products physical or chemical characteristics. the in Sweden, SSAB was awarded Green Cargo’s thanks to the exact processes involved, waste is either destroyed or deposited. “Climate Certificate for transportation” also steel production gives rise to valuable, the management and monitoring of the in 2011; this means that the transportation quality by-products. SSAB sells by-products Company’s deposition sites are strictly regusatisfied the criteria established by the in the market through its subsidiary, Merox. lated by governmental agencies. Deposited Swedish Society for nature preservation ongoing research projects are aimed at waste must be handled in such a way that with respect to Good environmental Choice identifying new areas of use and conditions these resources, too, might be utilized in for transportation. prior to the construction for converting additional material into relethe future. of SSAB’s two electric steel plants in vant offerings to the market. one example Montpelier and Mobile, the locations were is the zinc-rich dust from the electric arc Railways, an important chosen based on the potential market and furnaces, which now goes to a recycling means of transport access to the scrap metal raw material. this plant instead of being deposited. transportation takes place primarily by railstrategy minimizes the environmental there are waste products from the way and ship, but also by truck. All of SSAB’s impact from transportation since all plants production processes for which at present business areas have their own logistics have access to railways. in north America, there is no environmentally or economically departments with the objective of making the inland waterway system is also used. justified area of use, or which should be transportation efficient and economical. removed from the use cycle for environin Sweden, raw materials are transported to mental reasons. At SSAB, this waste largely luleå and oxelösund by train or ship. transconsists of flue gas purification dust and portation of slabs between the production steel slag which cannot be used due to its plants takes place by rail. Absolute emissions 1) Country Volume 2011 2) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Dust Sweden 3) tonne 584 748 551 888 919 942 933 nitrogen oxide Sweden 3) tonne 1,319 1,392 1,118 1,657 1,709 1,801 1,776 Carbon dioxide Sweden 3) thousand tonne 5,803 5,974 3,711 6,187 6,410 6,229 6,407 Carbon dioxide uSA 4) thousand tonne 675 688 1) Data for the period 2005–2010 has been updated from preliminary to finally reported data. 2) the information for 2011 is preliminary. 3) the reporting as regards Sweden covers the plants in oxelösund, Borlänge and luleå. luleå also includes emissions from the operations of luleKraft AB, which are based on SSAB’s process gases; luleKraft AB is 50% owned by SSAB. Carbon dioxide emissions correspond to those reported within the eu trading system. transportation is not included. 4) As from 2010, carbon dioxide emissions are also reported from the plants in Mobile and Montpelier. reporting takes place to the uSepA (u. S. environmental protection Agency). 30 environmental impact during the production process SSAB SuStAinABility report 2011 Reduced carbon dioxide emissions in conjunction with the production of hot metal. In addition to improved profitability, an investment in new hot blast stoves at one of the two blast furnaces in Oxelösund has given rise to many positive environmental effects. At blast furnace 2, a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions has been achieved equal to 1,100 journeys by air between Stockholm and New York, or more than 3 million car journeys between Nyköping and Stockholm. Thanks to the new hot blast stoves, the air-blast in the blast furnace is hotter than previously. The hotter the air, the more efficient the hot metal process. The need for injection coal and coke is reduced, and thereby also carbon dioxide emissions. SSAB receives award from Green Cargo. Green Cargo is a state-owned logistics company that awards Climate Certificates to companies whose transportation efforts meet stringent requirements regarding low emissions of greenhouse gases. The award was distributed for the first time in 2003 and was granted to SSAB at that time. In 2011, 28 companies received the award, including SSAB EMEA. Carbon dioxide 1) 2) Nitrogen oxide 1) Dust 1) Thousand tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 8,000 2,000 1,000 7,000 800 6,000 1,500 5,000 600 4,000 1,000 3,000 400 2,000 500 200 1,000 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Process Heat and power plant 1) The report covers the Swedish operations at the plants in Oxelösund, Borlänge and Luleå. With respect to Luleå, emissions are also included from the half-owned LuleKraft, which bases its operations on SSAB’s process gases. Transportation is not included. 2) The emissions of carbon dioxide correspond to those reported within the EU’s trading system. SSAB sustainability report 2011 Environmental impact during the production process 31 Social responsibility People and the community A stimulating and safe workplace is prioritized within SSAB. Work is taking place to introduce principles regarding labor rights and human rights into contracts with suppliers. SSAB’s social commitment is visible both locally and globally. the objective – a high-performing organization one of the major challenges facing the steel industry and SSAB is to ensure the supply of a skilled workforce in the future. SSAB is working proactively to be considered an attractive employer and to promote the availability of the right skills in the labor market. Development opportunities in an exciting, global and safe working environment are crucial factors. Development and leadership suitable internal candidates for every be given a hearing as regards their situation for continued success vacant managerial position, thereby faciliat the workplace, and afforded an opportuSSAB’s Hr strategy is aimed at continuously tating exchanges of experience and skills nity to react in those cases where anomalies developing the organization and encouradevelopment within the Group. An important are discovered. ging a high-performance culture. it is a key performance indicator for SSAB, which in 2010, a whistleblowing system was question of attracting and retaining skilled is monitored monthly, is the percentage of established for the entire Group, to which employees and developing current employvacant managerial positions to which interemployees can anonymously report irreguees through training, feedback, other skills, nal candidates are appointed. During 2011, larities and suspicions of criminal offences. and internal mobility. Employee perforno less than 85 percent of managerial mance interviews represent an important recruitments took place internally. Equality of opportunity and diversity instrument in all development work. Focus has been placed on strengtheSSAB operates in a traditionally male-domiSSAB encourages internal mobility and ning the organization and ensuring that nated industry. this is particularly noticeable skills development. the employees’ wishes to established goals are achieved. During 2011, in the production part of the operations. develop, and mutual learning represent key the work on developing a high-performance in the Group, women account for a total of factors for SSAB as a knowledge-based comorganization has included continuation of 19 percent of employees and 18 percent pany. the objective is to have an individual the Change implementation program. the of managers. the aim is that the percentage development plan for each employee and to program is focused on second-tier manaof women in the Group shall be reflected in carry out annual performance and planning gers within SSAB and is aimed at increasing the percentage of female managers. interviews between managers and employees. the understanding of SSAB’s strategy and SSAB is working with, among other the development plan work stimulates internal creating conditions for implementation of things, mentor programs and women’s netmobility and promotes internal candidates the strategy throughout the business. works in order to increase career opportuniwhen vacancies are to be filled. ties for women within the Group. Within SSAB conducts an annual manager Cooperation and influence SSAB, there are a number of employees who survey. All managers and potential manastrengthen the organization have been identified as potential managers gers in the Group are evaluated based on For SSAB, it is important that employees are of the future; just over one-quarter of them SSAB’s managerial criteria and individual able to express themselves and contribute are women, which is a good prerequisite for performance. one important aim of the their views regarding the business and how achieving the established goal. manager survey is to ensure that there are it is to be developed. SSAB’s employees must Average number of employees, gender breakdown Equality of opportunity and diversity Number of employees Women, % % 20 2011 2010 2011 2010 Parent Company 15 Sweden 52 48 50 46 Subsidiaries 10 Sweden 6,644 6,413 19 19 5 Percent of female uSA 1,239 1,107 12 12 employees other 895 909 29 25 Percent of female 0 09 10 11 managers Total 8,830 8,477 19 19 SSAB SuStAinABility rEport 2011 Employees 33 Follow-up of the investments made in potenbusiness areas also reflects breadth in divervicinity of the steelworks in Montpelier and tial future managers since 2000 demonstrasity factors. This sends signals to the rest of Mobile, a project involving the municipality tes that two-thirds of the men and women the organization and, together with the in the form of a preventive health care cenwho have undergone the development proincreased internal mobility, in the long run ter in i Oxelösund, as well as the HälsoSAM gram for managerial candidates proceed to contributes to increased diversity on all health project for the working environment manager or head positions. This confirms levels. ergonomy in Luleå. HälsoSAM is now the that the development was as positive for model for the systematic work environment female candidates as for male candidates, Proactive health care work also in Borlänge. even if in total there were fewer female than prevents ill-health During the year, sick leave within the male candidates. SSAB has a major commitment to improved Swedish part of the group amounted to 3.2 2 out of the 9 members of the Group health, and a number of proactive health (2.8) percent. Sick leave amounted to 3.9 Executive Committee are women. The comcare projects are being carried out. Examp(3.3) percent among blue-collar employees position of the managerial corps in the new les include support for hiking paths in the and 1.6 (1.6) among white-collar staff. Number of employees at year-end 2011 2010 Change,% SSAB EMEA 6,742 6,569 3 SSAB Americas 1, 338 1 ,221 10 SSAB APAC 171 104 64 Tibnor 798 838 -5 Other 58 58 0 Total 9,107 8,790 4 Water testing in Oxelösund. Personnel expenses Personalkostnader Lost time Age breakdown SEKm % % of worked time Age 6,000 25 6 60– 5,000 5 20 50–59 4,000 4 40–49 15 3,000 3 30–39 10 2,000 2 20–29 5 1 –19 1,000 0 07 08 09 10 11 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 2,000 1,200 400 400 1,200 2,000 Personnel expenses As a percentage of sales White-collar employees Blue-collar employees 34 Employees SSAB sustainability report 2011 Continued focus on employee safety and development Focus in the organization is being placed on strengthening employees in their roles and structures, and promoting consideration of the bigger picture. Despite the work carried out during the year, the Swedish operations failed to reach the targets set as regards health and safety. Results within SSAB Americas continued to be very good. Zero tolerance program the number of accidents resulting in sick SSAB’s ambition is to be one of the world’s leave was 9.2 per million worked hours, leading steel companies as regards health slightly up on the preceding year. and safety. SSAB possess the technical and practical conditions for achieving this. HazarImproved systematic work dous work situations have gradually been with OHSAS 18001 eliminated. Strict routines and procedures During 2010, the American steelworks were are in place in respect of any hazardous granted certification in accordance with the elements which it has not been possible to international standard for systematic working eliminate . At the same time, work is also environment work, OHSAS 18001. The goal taking place to improve safety through of obtaining certification for the entire increased understanding, attitudes towards American operations was achieved in 2011, safety, and behavior which affects safety. when all three cutting lines were granted The zero tolerance program is focused on certification. This means that SSAB Americas this and 2011 has been characterized by a has a standardized management system in strong focus on safety. Numerous activities place as regards health and safety. In prachave been carried out, including working tice, this involves the joint policies, proceduenvironment days at all of the Swedish plants. res and documentation, which will strengthen the organization’s ability to address safety Very good results within issues systematically. Preparations took SSAB Americas place in 2011 for certification of the Swedish In 2011, too, the two steel works in Mobile production plants. Luleå is already certified, and Montpelier have demonstrated extreand the aim is that all plants will be certified mely positive results as regards safety and, by the end of the first half of 2012. according to independent analysts, are among the leading steel works in North Employee surveys support America in this respect. SSAB Americas the improvement work exceeded its target and only three accidents Within SSAB, employee surveys covering resulting in sick leave occurred during the all employees are conducted regularly. The Daniel Bälter and Sara Åslund. year, all of which involved slight injuries survey constitutes an important support in which occurred at processing plants with implementing improvement work within the fewer than 25 employees. In total, this was organization. Based on results from the a 25 percent improvement compared with employee surveys, each supervisor devises the previous year. Top priority is being given improvement plans which address areas to achieving the same excellent results in for development. the Swedish operations. In this endeavor, In order to monitor the results of the it is an advantage to be able to study and improvement work since the major survey learn from the American operations. carried out in 2010, a smaller scale employee survey was carried out during the year. SSAB EMEA did not meet set targets In this survey, focus was placed solely on the Despite vigorous safety measures, 2011 Employee Satisfaction Index (ES I), i.e. failed to witness a change in the trend in the employee motivation and commitment. Swedish steel operations. On a Group level, Since 2010, ESI has increased from 84 to 85. SSAB sustainability report 2011 Employees 35 Employee development current and future employees. SSAB works attracted to studying engineering. Via Each employee shall have an annual perforactively vis-à-vis schools, colleges and uniTekniksprånget , all students in Sweden mance and planning review with his or her versities through the University & College graduating from high school natural science immediate supervisor. The aim of the Group, a cross-functional team comprising and technology programs will be offered a reviews is to monitor results and perforemployees from different functions . SSAB’s four-months internship at a Swedish techmance, provide feedback, set new goals, participation in the Tekniksprånget project nology-based company. Tekniksprånget and prepare and plan development activiin Sweden serves as an example of activities provides SSAB with the possibility to contrities . During 2011, 96 percent of employees aimed at promoting a long-term supply of bute to increased knowledge about, and an had such reviews with their immediate skilled employees. Some 10 industrial comincreased interest in, careers in technology. supervisor. The percentage of performance panies are participating in Tekniksprånget, and planning reviews held is an important which was initiated by Industrivärden and key performance indicator for SSAB’s work Nordstjernan. The aim of Tekniksprånget on being a high-performance organization. and the work within the University & College Group is to encourage young people to Long-term skills supply initiative choose to train as engineers. By, at an early SSAB is a knowledge-based company stage, experiencing the reality at a technowhose success depends on the skills of logy-based company, young people can be SSAB’s ambition is to be one of the world’s leading steel companies as regards health and safety. 36 Employees SSAB sustainability report 2011 SSAB sustainability report 2011 Employees 37 FOCUS: SAFETY Vision of zero accidents A safe workplace is a top priority for SSAB. A number of serious accidents in the Swedish operations in recent years have resulted in greater preparedness, with projects to strengthen routines and increase safety awareness. Compromises on safety are never accepted. The message has been reinforced SSAB has formulated a zero-tolerance policy as regards accidents, with the intermediate objective of reducing by more than 5 percent per year the number of injuries resulting in sick leave. the zero-tolerance program was launched in 2010 and involves practical preventive work through training and strengthened routines, as well as a lower level of tolerance in cases where safety is disregarded. risking one’s own safety or that of one’s colleagues can never be tolerated and result in disciplinary measures, irrespective of the outcome. SSAB’s increased focus is being felt throughout the organization numbers of accidents due to slipping, which demonstrates how far the company has and safety is a common day-to-day topic is reflected in the accident statistics. Within come in achieving a correct approach and of discussion. it is primarily a question of SSAB, it is not only at the steelworks that work method. changed attitudes. this is a readjustment there are risk-filled working environments. which takes time, but as an employer SSAB Around the world, there are cutting lines and Standard for systematic must create the most favorable conditions sales depots with powerful machines, heavy work environment and never turn a blind eye to carelessness. materials, and vehicles. risks exist also within oHSAS 18001, which is an international However, in 2011 one fatality occurred the international sales organization; detailed standard for systematic working environat SSAB’s plants and the accident figures identification of the risks will be carried out. ment work, is gradually being introduced for the Swedish operations as a whole are within SSAB. oHSAS 18001 helps the comon a level which is not in line with SSAB’s Trend towards less serious pany create the optimal conditions for strategic objective. accidents with shorter absence regular improvements. the oHSAS work is lost time injuries (lti) is the key performance based on monitoring the risks and preparing Crush injuries and sprains indicator most commonly used within induplans of action to eliminate them. the plans are most common stry to measure injury frequency. lti measuof action and the company’s objectives and Steel production involves many elements res the number of injuries which result in results are audited annually, both through which require a high level of safety preparedabsence from work, per million work hours. an internal audit as well as an external audit ness. there are many potential risks of acciover the past four years, SSAB’s lti has been carried out by an accredited firm. in this way, dents unless safety awareness is a factor in relatively unchanged, in line with the industry systematic work environment is developed every decision and every stage in the process. average. However, there is an underlying for the entire Group. Accidents more often occur in conjunction trend behind these figures. Generally speaAll units within SSAB Americas, both with maintenance outages and disruptions in king, less serious accidents are involved, production facilities and cutting lines, are production. Detailed documentation and anaresulting in shorter sick leave. Extremely posicertified. SSAB EMEA’s production plants in lysis of accidents and incidents are crucial for tive results can be presented in respect of Borlänge, oxelösund and Finspång are to be being able to implement appropriate measuindividual plants. For example, the plant in certified by the end of the first half of 2012. res and for developing safety routines. Borlänge has succeeded in significantly redululeå has already obtained certification. Crush injuries, strains and minor burns cing its accident figures. During the summer Common routines and guidelines for are the most common injuries. Due to the of 2011, very large capital investment proSSAB EMEA were developed during 2011. heavy snowfall of the past two winters in jects were carried out at the plant. they were SSAB EMEA has adopted a new working Sweden, there have been abnormally high implemented without a single accident, which environment policy which sets out the 38 Focus: Safety SSAB SuStAinABility rEport 2011 The vision of zero accidents is feasible. During the three-week long scheduled outage in Borlänge, four major capital expenditure projects were carried out involving almost 1,000 maintenance jobs. in addition to SSAB’s own employees, 700 contractor employees were present within SSAB’s area during the period. From day one, there was a strong focus on a safe working environment. With the end result – zero accidents – the conclusion is clear. it is possible to avoid accidents, even under the most challenging conditions conceivable. Björn Jansson, project manager for the project, points out that essentially what is involved is considering the bigger picture, communicating well, focusing on tasks at hand, avoiding stress, and keeping things in order. Björn Jansson, project manager, Safe Start-up, 2011. company’s ambitious objectives within of safety work among, SSAB’s contractors. Work promoted by the working environment area. together with the contractor, SSAB conducts exchanges of experience a risk analysis regarding relevant work duties. SSAB’s American operations have achieved Responsibility for contractor All reported industrial injuries, near accidents extremely good results thanks to long-term employee safety or critical elements are investigated. and systematic safety work. the plants in Each year, hundreds of people from external Within SSAB EMEA, there is a safety Mobile and Montpelier are both top listed in companies work at SSAB’s plants, primarily committee for contractor employees at each independent rankings of the safety perforon maintenance and repairs. in Sweden, production plant. the aim is to place further mance of American steel companies. the SSAB has a statutory responsibility to coorfocus on the issues and create a forum in work to improve the safety work within SSAB dinate safety work, and employees of exterwhich the largest contractors report twice EMEA continues. Within the Group, an organal contractors are included in SSAB EMEA’s a year the way in which reported events have nized exchange is taking place in which the composite injury statistics since 2010. During been followed up and the systematic measuAmerican operations share their experiences the year, several serious accidents occurred res they are taking to prevent accidents. and success factors in the safety area. the in which contractor employees were injured. prior to commencement of the actual work, Swedish steel works, for their part, have come A driver was fatally injured at the sales depot all contractor employees must participate in a long way in terms of other working environin portugal, while in Borlänge a contractor local safety training. Safety training courses ment issues, such as ergonomy, lighting and employee suffered serious burns in conjunare held regularly, but more intensively prior automation. through cooperation and ction with a repair outage. to the summer maintenance outages when regular learning, the organization can utilize Work is continuing on imposing requirea large number of contractor employees are the successes achieved in various parts of ments on, and supporting the development admitted to the plants. the operations. SSAB EMEA: New working environment policy employees when they take a risk or fail to comply with established During the year, a new working environment policy was adopted safety rules. All work which is not carried out safely must be within SSAB EMEA aimed at emphasizing the increased focus on discontinued. health and safety. in order to achieve the objective of zero accidents • Set a good example. Supervisors are responsible for the working and injuries, SSAB will: environment and must set a good example and serve as role models; • Ensure that the working environment is taken into account in all • Ensure that all employees understand the importance of good activities and decisions taken throughout the Company. health and a high level of safety, by providing them with all • Co-operate in preventing accidents and work-related ill-health by necessary instructions as well as training and necessary identifying, evaluating and eliminating risks. equipment which facilitates a safe method of working. • Systematically identify and eliminate the basic causes of near • improve the employees’ physical and mental well-being through accidents and accidents, with the aim of preventing them preventive work. happening again. • Fulfill or exceed all applicable laws and requirements imposed by • Endeavor to develop a safety culture in which employees help and governmental agencies or other legal entities. care about themselves, their work colleagues, and contactor • Establish clear goals and carry out regular monitoring to ensure employees. We must stop and instruct colleagues and contractor that these goals are fulfilled. SSAB SuStAinABility rEport 2011 Focus: Safety 39 raw materials suppliers the raw materials used in steel production are SSAB’s strategically most important purchases. purchasing takes place from number of suppliers in different parts of the world. Work is ongoing to coordinate purchasing processes and for the inclusion of principles regarding labor rights and human rights in contracts with suppliers. Guidelines and governance contacts with suppliers, SSAB communicaSystematic identification in 2010, SSAB adopted a procurement tes its Code of Business Ethics and encouraof supplier risks policy which governs all of SSAB’s purchases ges the suppliers to comply with, and Stringent quality requirements and longthroughout the Group. SSAB has signed up respect, the Code. term business relations provide the purto the Global Compact and its principles are SSAB has also developed instructions chasing organization with good insight into applied in the work with suppliers. SSAB’s regarding the Giving and Acceptance of Briconditions at the suppliers. in 2011, work Code of Business Ethics reflects Global bes. the instructions provide employees began on developing a joint purchasing Compact principles and is the most with clear information on how SSAB defines system for the Group. With a joint purchaimportant control document as regards bribery and improper benefits, and how sing system for the Group, improved condiwork with suppliers. the Code of Business employees are expected to act in relation tions will be created for the continued work Ethics places particular emphasis on the to suppliers, customers and other business on monitoring suppliers. abolition of forced labor and child labor. in partners. The source of SSAB’s raw materials Iron ore pellets SWEDEN Injection coal RUSSIA Scrap metal USA Metallurgical coal Coke JAPAN Metallurgical coal AUSTRALIA SSAB purchases iron ore pellets from a Swedish supplier, lKAB. Metallurgical coal is purchased from two major suppliers in Australia and the uS, while injection coal is sourced from a specific mine in russia. Scrap metal is purchased locally in the uS. Coke is purchased from Japan. Alloying agents is procured from some 30 different suppliers. 40 Suppliers SSAB SuStAinABility rEport 2011 SSAB in the community SSAB is an active member of the community in the localities where it operates. The company aims to contribute to and support local and international projects of importance to its employees and its local presence. SSAB maintains an open dialogue with politicians, governmental agencies, media and the public, with the objective to contribute to knowledge about steel and steel production. Supporting local communities nages, houses and hospitals. The help is and contributing to activities channeled through the aid organization Star At the localities where it operates in Sweden, of Help, which has worked in Haiti for more SSAB contributes to creating a wide range than 30 years and focuses on children and of recreational activities which can be their future. 42 tonnes of roofing plate were enjoyed by SSAB’s employees and their supplied in 2011, compared with 11 tonnes Photo: Hoppets Stjärna families. Examples include sponsorship of the previous year. local sports organizations and an exchange of knowledge with schools. SSAB also has Strong employee involvement the possibility of supporting associations in SSAB Americas engages in extensive work After the earthquake, only a pile of rubble which employees are involved, primarily to support the local communities in the remained of the school in Hesse, Haiti. 400 students now have a roof over their within sport and culture. areas around the plants. This involves both heads again. For several years, SSAB EMEA has financial contributions to a number of diffesupported the Peace & Love Festival in rent projects as well as initiatives by comBorlänge. SSAB has been involved in the mitted employees. Among other things, Clean Town project and the objective is that employees support The United Way with Peace & Love will be Sweden’s cleanest donations, with SSAB making matching festival. SSAB lends out its personnel and contributions. In Mobile, money equivalent assists with work management in the Clean to the saving realized by recycling car tires Town project, and provides training on how for energy instead of primarily using fossil to work on order and tidiness. SSAB EMEA fuel is donated to an education fund. The supports Lions’ large spring market in employees in Montpelier sponsor and Oxelösund, which attracts 20,000 visitors. support The Make-a-Wish Foundation, an SSAB assists, among other things, with a organization which works to give comfort financial contribution, and the profit from and support to very sick children. the market always goes to Lions’ help activities. The roofing sheet was manufactured by SSAB in Borlänge and processed by Plannja. Support to Haiti During 2011, SSAB and Plannja continued to supply sheet to Haiti to help in the rebuilding following the severe earthquake in 2010. The sheet is used for roofing on schools, orphaSSAB sustainability report 2011 SSAB in the community 41 GRI table SSAB self-declares the report to be Appliand in connection with the reporting of a supplement to the 2011 Annual Report, cation Level C in accordance with the GRI data. Acquired companies are included in the table also includes references to that (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines for the report commencing the date on which information, as indicated by the initials ‘AR’. reporting on sustainability work. SSAB is a controlling influence is obtained. The GRI table contains all core indicators, as engaged in producing joint key performance Reporting is in accordance with the same well as those additional indicators that SSAB indicators for the entire Group, but in certain principles as in previous years. has considered to be relevant for its operarespects data is reported only for the SweThe table below states where informations. This is based on the Company’s most dish operations. The business areas and tion sought in GRI is available in the 2011 important sustainability issues. subsidiaries covered are revealed regularly Sustainability Report. Since the Report is Page Degree of Page Degree of GRI GC reference reporting GRI GC reference reporting 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4.4 M echanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the board 15 nnn 1.1 CEO statement 2–3 nnn 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks 4–7, 12, executives AR 40, 71–74 nnn and opportunities 1, 7–9 AR 42–43 nnn 4.6 P rocesses for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board 15, AR 44–53 nnn 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications 2.1 Name of the organization Cover page nnn of board members AR 44–53 nnn 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Edge, back page nnn 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 1–10 11, 13–14 nnn 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 15 nnn 4.9 T he board's monitoring of the sustainability work 15, AR 51 nnn 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 45 nnn 4.10 P  rocesses for evaluating the board's own 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 45 nnn performance 15, AR 46 nnn 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 15 nnn 4.12 E ndorsement of external voluntary codes, 2.7 Markets Edge, back page nnn principles or other initiatives 11 nnn 2.8 Scale of the organization Edge, back page nnn 4.13 Memberships in associations 23, 36 nnn 2.9 S  ignificant changes during the reporting 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 8 nnn period AR 20, 25 nnn 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 2.10 A  wards received during the reporting period 19, 20, 31, 35 nnn stakeholders with whom to engage 8 nnn 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 8 nnn 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 4.14 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 8–9 nnn 3.1 Reporting period Edge, cover page nnn 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Edge, cover page nnn 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS 3.3 Reporting cycle Edge, cover page nnn EC1. D irect economic value generated and 3.4 C ontact point for questions regarding the distributed 19 nnn report Edge, cover page nnn EC2. R  isks and opportunities for the organization 3.5 Process for defining report content 4–9, 42 nnn due to climate changes 7 17, 19 nnn Edge, cover page, EC3. C  overage of the organization's defined 3.6 Boundary of the report 42 nnn benefit plan obligations AR 86 nnn 3.7 S pecific limitations on the scope or Edge, cover page, EC4. F inancial assistance received from boundary of the report 42 nnn government AR 72 nnn 3.8 B asis for reporting on joint ventures, Edge, cover page, EC6. P  olicy, practices and proportion of subsidiaries, etc. 42 nnn spending on locally–based suppliers nnn 3.10 E  xplanation of the effect of any restatements Edge, cover page, EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior of information provided in earlier reports 42 nnn management hired from the local community nnn 3.11 S ignificant changes from previous reporting Edge, cover page, EC8. I nfrastructure investments and services principles regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 42 nnn provided for public purposes 41 nnn 3.12 GRI table 42–43 nnn 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT EN1. Materials used by weight or volume 8 24, 30 nnn 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 15 nnn EN2. Percentage of recycled input materials 8–9 20, 28, 30 nnn 4.2 T he Chairman of the Board's role in the orgaEN3. D  irect energy consumption by primary nization 15 nnn source 8 20, 30 nnn 4.3 I ndependent and/or non–executive board EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary members 15 nnn source 8 30 nnn 42 GRI table SSAB sustainability report 2011 SSAB signed up to the UN Global Global Compact’s principles Compact (GC) in 2010 and supports Human rights 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection employment and occupation. its ten principles. Activities and of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Environment 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach results related to Global Compact rights abuses. to environmental challenges; and principles are reported below through Labor standards 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association environmental responsibilities; and cross-reference to a selection of GRI and the effective recognition of the right to collective 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of bargaining; and environmentally friendly technologies. indicators. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Anticorruption labor; and 10. Businesses should work against corruption in 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page Degree of Page Degree of GRI GC reference reporting GRI GC reference reporting EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and 26, LA13. Composition of governance bodies efficiency improvement 8–9 28–29, 31 nnn and employees according to diversity 15, 34, indicators 6 AR 112–115 nnn EN6. Initiatives to provide energy–efficient or renewable energy based products/services 8–9 7, 17 nnn LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women nnn EN8. Total water withdrawal by source nnn HR1. Investment agreements that include human rights clauses 1–6 40 nnn EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 8–9 5 nnn HR2.Suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights, and actions taken 1–6 40 nnn EN11. Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/areas of biodiversity value nnn HR4. T  otal number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken nnn EN12. Impacts of products and operations on biodiversity nnn HR5. O  perations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse significant risk and actions taken 1–3 40 nnn gas emissions 8 30–31 nnn HR6. O  perations identified as having EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse significant risk for incidents of child gas emissions nnn labor and actions taken 1–2, 5 40 nnn EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse HR7. Operations identified as having gas emissions 7–9 17, 20, 26 nnn significant risk for incidents of forced or EN19. Emissions of ozone–depleting substances nnn compulsory labor and actions taken 1–2, 4 40 nnn EN20. NO, SO and other significant SO1. Programs for evaluating the operation's air emissions 8 30 nnn impacts on communities 8 nnn EN21. Total water discharge 8 23 nnn SO2. B  usiness units analyzed for risks related EN22. Waste by type and disposal method 8 30 to corruption 10 13–14 nnn nnn EN23. Number and volume of significant spills 8 27 SO3. Employees trained in the organization's nnn anti–corruption policies and procedures. 10 13–14 nnn EN 26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental 7, 9, 17–19, impacts of products and services 7–9 20–21, 28–29 SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of nnn corruption 10 13 nnn EN27. Products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed SO5. P  articipation in public policy development nnn and lobbying 7–9 8, 23 nnn EN28. Fines and/or non–monetary sanctions for non–compliance with environmental laws SO8. M  onetary value of fines for nnn non–compliance with applicable laws AR 94 nnn EN29. Environmental impact of transports 8 20, 30 nnn PR1. L ife cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS are assessed 1 4–5 nnn LA1. Total workforce by employment type, PR3. T  ype of products and service information contract and region 34 nnn required by procedures, and percentage of products subject to such information LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age group, requirements nnn gender and region 6 33–34 nnn PR6. P  rograms for adherence to laws, LA4. Percentage of employees covered by standards and voluntary codes for collective bargaining agreements nnn marketing communications nnn LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding PR9. M  onetary value of fines for non–compliance operational changes nnn with regulations concerning the use of LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, products and services nnn lost days, work–related fatalities per region 1 34–39 nnn LA8. Education, training, prevention and Explanation of degree of reporting: risk–control programs in place 1 38 nnn nnn Fully reported LA10. Average hours of training per year per nnn Partially reported employee 10 13–14, 33, 38 nnn nnn Not reported SSAB sustainability report 2011 GRI table 43 Steel Talk ABC – a glossary A After-treatment – Heat treatment, cooling, etc., in order to endow Hearth – Lower part of the blast furnace; area for collection of Rolling mill – Any of the mills in which metal undergoes a rolling the steel with certain qualities; also galvanizing, organic coating, molten hot metal process. For plate, sheet and strip, these include the slabbing mill, and cutting to size Hematite –Fe2O3, non-magnetic iron ore or blood ore hot rolling mills, cold rolling mills, and temper mills.. Any operating Alloy – A substance composed of two or more metals unit that reduces gauge by application of loads through revolving High strength steel – Strong steel with high resistance to tensile cylindrical rolls; operation can be hot or cold. The elevated temperAlloy Steel – An iron-based mixture is considered to be an alloy stress before fatigue and breaking may occur. A very strong steel ature rolling mill is the Hot Mill and is capable of reducing the gauge steel when manganese is greater than 1.65%, silicon over 0.5%, that is able to withstand high loads before failure of a slab 92-99% copper above 0.6%, or other minimum quantities of alloying eleHot dip galvanization – Method for adding a rust protection surments such as chromium, nickel, molybdenum, or tungsten are Roll pass – Number of times a billet or slab passes through a pair face layer. For example, adding zinc and aluminum in hot molten present. An enormous variety of distinct properties can be created of rollers form on the steel. The opposite to zinc-plating, an electrochemical for the steel by substituting these elements in the recipe method of applying a coat of molten zinc to the surface of steel for Rougher – Two rough cylindrical rollers which press the steel to Alloying material – Material that is added to the molten metal durthe purpose of enhancing corrosion resistance thinner dimensions prior to hot rolling ing the steelmaking process and which combines with iron or other Hot metal – The name for the molten iron produced in a blast furRunner – Ceramic-lined spout for controlling molten, hot metal metals and changes the metal's qualities nace. It proceeds to the basic oxygen furnace in molten form or is Annealing – A thermal cycle involving heating to, and holding at a cast as pig iron S Scrap – Ferrous (iron-containing) material that generally is resuitable temperature and then cooling at a suitable rate, for such melted and re-cast into new steel. Integrated steel mills use scrap Hot strip rolling mill –A mill for rolling heated slabs through a purposes as reducing hardness, improving machinability, facilitating for up to 25% of their basic oxygen furnace charge; electric-arc series of rolling stands to produce sheet steel in coil form cold working, producing a desired microstructure, or obtaining furnace based steel mills may use scrap for 100% of the furnace Hot rolling – A metalworking process in which slabs are heated to charge desired mechanical or other properties high temperatures and then deformed between rollers to form Application – Area of use; a product which uses a certain grade of SEN – Submerged entry nozzle, a ceramic pipe which protects the thinner cross-sections steel steel from exposure to air, in conjunction with casting Applications engineer – Trained specialists in the qualities of the I Injection coal – Coal powder which is injected into the blast furSintering – A process that combines iron-bearing particles, once material and its areas of use; problem solvers and developers nace under high pressure without being converted to coke recovered from environmental control filters, into small pellets. Previously, these materials were too fine to withstand the air curIron ore pellets – Iron ore particles rolled into small balls and B Billet – A semi-finished steel form that is used for “long” products: rents of the smelting process and were thrown away. The iron is now compacted by heating bars, channels or other structural shapes. A billet is different from a conserved because the chunks can be charged into the blast furslab because of its outer dimensions; billets are normally 50 to nace L Ladle – A “bucket” lined with refractory (heat resistant) bricks, 180 mm square (2 to 7”sq), while slabs are 760 to 3,200 mm (30 used to transport molten steel from process to process in a steel Skirt – Pipe around the blast furnace for the supply and allocation to 126”) wide and 50 to 250 mm (2 to 10”) thick. Both shapes are plant of hot blast air, also known as a bustle pipe generally continually cast, but they may differ greatly in their Slab furnace – Furnace for heating steel slabs to rolling temperaLadle change – Switch from an empty to a full container of steel chemistry tures Ladle Metallurgy Furnace (LMF) – An intermediate steel processBlast Furnace – A shaft furnace lined with heat-resistant (refracSlabs – The most common type of semi-finished steel. Traditional ing unit that further refines the chemistry and temperature of moltory) bricks, used by integrated steel mills to reduce and melt iron slabs can measure 150 to 400 mm thick (6 to 15.7”) and up to ten steel while it is still in the ladle. The ladle metallurgy step comes ore to iron. Its name comes from the “blast” of hot air and gases 3,200 mm (126”) wide, while the output of the recently developed after the steel is melted and refined in the electric arc or basic oxyforced up through the iron ore, coke, and limestone that load the “thin-slab” casters is approximately 40 to 70 mm (1.6 to 2.7 ”) gen furnace, but before the steel is sent to the continuous caster furnace thick. Subsequent to casting, slabs are sent to the hot-strip mill or Ladle treatment method – Different methods for ladle metallurgy Blast air – Heated air which is blown into the blast furnace under plate mill to be rolled into coiled sheet and plate products high pressure LD converter – Oxygen steelmaking process employing a conSlag – Solution of mainly liquid oxides. Flux such as limestone may verter (vessel) and top blowing oxygen lance to refine the blast furbe added to foster the congregation of undesired elements into a C Carbon dioxide – CO2, colorless gas, soluble in water to form carnace hot metal into crude steel. Named for the Austrian towns of slag. Because slag is lighter than iron, it will float on top of the pool, bonic acid; included in carbonated drinks and comprises 0.03% of Linz and Donawitz, L-D. Often referred to as Basic Oxygen Furnace where it can be skimmed. the atmosphere and is identified as a greenhouse gas (BOF) in North America Smelting reduction process – Process for smelting and removing Carbon monoxide – Colorless and odorless energy-rich gas which Low alloyed steel grades – A steel, other than a carbon steel, unwanted substances from, for example, metal raw materials burns with a blue flame; noxious. Upon combustion, carbon dioxide that requires the minimum content for each specified alloying element to be lower than the applicable limit for the definition for alloy Special steel – Alloyed steel is formed steel Steckel mill – A four-high reversing rolling mill, the Steckel mill Carbon steel – Unalloyed steel allows the rolling of a large slab by providing heated coil furnaces Charging – The act of loading material into a vessel. For example, M Magnetite – Fe3O4, magnetic iron ore or boxes on both sides of the mill to store the increased length iron ore, coke, and limestone are charged into a blast furnace; a produced during rolling. These coil furnaces allow for additional Martensitic steel – Steel with a very hard form of steel crystalline basic oxygen furnace is charged with scrap and hot metal, and an heat retention and thermal consistency in the rolled piece, which in structure called martensite that is formed by displacive transforelectric arc furnace is charged with steel scrap and fluxes turn produces improved uniformity throughout the rolled product mation. The martensite is formed by rapid cooling (quenching) of Coilbox – Rolling machinery; box for coiled steel employed to proaustenite which traps carbon atoms that do not have time to difSteel – Alloy of iron and carbon with a carbon content of less mote temperature uniformity during the hot rolling process fuse out of the crystal structure than 1.7% Coiler – Mechanical part which captures plate, sheet or strip from Material design – Control of the steel chemical composition and Steel bath – The hot, molten steel in a container the rolling mill and coils it processing to achieve a microstructure that offers a combination Steel shuttle – Train system for transportation of steel slabs Coke – Dry distilled coal, the basic fuel consumed in blast furnaces of properties desirable for an intended product or application between Luleå, Borlänge and Oxelösund production facilities in the smelting of iron ore. Approx. 450 kg (1,000 pounds)) of coke Metallurgy – The science and technology of metals – a broad field Strand – The continuous cast slab within the continuous casting are needed to process a ton of pig iron, an amount which reprethat includes, but is not limited to, the study of internal structures machine prior to cutting into individual slabs sents more than 50% of an integrated steel mill’s total energy use and properties of metals, and the effects on them of various proStrength – Properties related to the ability of steel to oppose Cold rolling – Metalworking process in which the thickness of a cessing methods applied forces. Forms of strength include withstanding imposed loads sheet, strip or plate is reduced by rolling at ambient temperature Mold – Casting mold without a permanent change in shape or structure and resistance to Continuous casting – A process by which molten metal is solidified stretching into a semi-finished billet, bloom, or slab for subsequent rolling O Ore car – Railcar for transportation of lump ore, iron ore concentrate or pellets Structure – The steel's molecular form following different treatment Cowper stoves – Heating apparatus; ceramic towers used for premethods; crystalline structure. May also refer to the size, shape, and heating blast air Oxide scale – An oxide of iron which forms on the surface of hot arrangement of phases within the steel Crude steel – Steel in its solidified state directly after casting. This rolled steel Strip – Thin, flat steel that resembles hot-rolled sheet, but it is noris then further processed by rolling or other treatments, which can Oxygen lance – Pipe-shaped lance for treatment using oxygen mally narrower (up to 300 mm, or 12” wide) and produced to more change its properties closely controlled thicknesses. Strip also may be cut from steel Cutting station – Place for cutting the steel strand into slabs P Pair of rollers – A pair of cylindrical rollers for rolling steel to thinsheet by a slitting machine ner dimensions under high pressure Surface treatment – Cleaning, polishing or coating of surfaces; D Decarburization – In oxygen-blown steelmaking processes, the Particulates filter – Purification plant for gas or air in which parfor example, through galvanization or organic coating reduction of the hot metal’s carbon content during refining by the ticulates are separated and condensed for recycling use of gaseous oxygen Phases – Steel has different crystal structures at various temperaT Temper Mill – A type of cold-rolling mill, usually a four-high, single Desulphurization – Method for removing sulphur from the hot tures and the phase(s) present depend on heat treatment, alloy stand mill, used to provide a relatively light cold rolling reduction to metal; for example, through the addition of calcium carbide or quantity, hardening, quenching, etc. Best known are the martensite hot rolled, cold rolled, or coated flat steel products to improve flatmagnesium oxide (quick hardening) phase, ferrite phase (pure iron) austenite (nonness, minimize surface disturbances such as coil breaks, and to Dry distillation process – Combustion without entry of oxygen magnetic) phase and bainite phase alter mechanical properties Dual-phase steel (DP) – High-strength steel that has a one soft Pickling line – A processing line which chemically removes oxide or Tempering – Heating to 200-500°C degrees in order to make (ferrite) and one hard (martensite) microstructure which allows for scale from the steel surface to obtain a clean surface for subsesteel tougher and less brittle desired combination of good formability with high strength quent processing Tensile strength – Ability to withstand tensile stress. (See Plate – Flat rolled steel product which is typically classified as over Strength) E Electric arc furnace (EAF) – Steel-making furnace where scrap is 1,200 mm (48”) in width and 4.5 mm (0.180”) in thickness Torpedo – Cylinder-shaped brick-lined railway car used for transgenerally 100% of the charge. Heat is supplied from electricity that Process gas – Gas from metallurgical processes; often energy rich porting hot, molten metal arcs from the graphite electrodes to the metal bath. Furnaces may Process methods – Methods for extracting raw materials and Tundish – An intermediate container in the casting process to facilibe either an alternating current (AC) or direct current (DC). DC units manufacturing products in a continuous cycle without disruption tate ladle change without disruption in the process consume less energy and fewer electrodes, but they are more expensive Process water – Water from cooling or treatment in the processes. Always undergoes purification and can often be re-circuV Vacuum Degassing – An advanced steel refining facility that lated removes oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen under low pressures (in a F Fatigue – The progressive and localized structural damage that vacuum) to produce high quality steel for demanding applications. occurs when a material is subjected to cyclic loading at stresses Q Quenched steels – Hardened or toughened steel. SSAB's quenNormally performed in the ladle, the removal of dissolved gases considerably below the ultimate tensile strength ched steels are also high strength results in cleaner, higher quality, more pure steel (see Ladle MetalFour-high rolling mill – Mechanical equipment; comprises four lurgy) cylindrical rollers with extremely high pressure which press slabs R Recycling – Return of used products or by-products to enter a into plate by repeatedly rolling backwards and forwards new cycle of production and use W Wear resistance – Ability to resist the erosion of material from the Reduction agents – Carbon or hydrogen used to remove oxygen surface as a result of mechanical action, e.g. abrasion and friction H Hardening – Process that increases the hardness of steel, i.e. the degree to which steel will resist cutting, abrasion, penetration, benfrom iron ore to produce iron ding, and stretching 44 Glossary SSAB sustainability report 2011 Production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo cover: Magnus Fond. Print: Elanders in Falköping. Paper: Arctic Matt. Addresses Luleå Borlänge Oxelösund Montpelier Kunshan Mobile BUSINESS AREAS SSAB AMERICAS Sales offices Steel mills SSAB EMEA Rolling mills SSAB APAC Steel Service Centers Group offices: Business Areas/Subsidiaries: SSAB AB SSAB EMEA SSAB APAC Plannja AB Box 70 SSAB AB SSAB Swedish Steel (China) Co. Ltd. 971 88 Luleå, Sweden 101 21 Stockholm, Sweden Box 70 No. 123 Yuanfeng Rd. Phone: +46 10 516 10 00 Phone: +46 8 45 45 700 101 21 Stockholm, Sweden Kunshan 215300, China Fax: +46 10 516 11 82 Fax: +46 8 45 45 725 Phone: +46 8 45 45 700 Phone: +86 512 5012 8100 www.plannja.se Visiting address: Fax: +46 8 562 321 21 Fax: +86 512 5012 8200 Klarabergsviadukten 70, D6 www.ssab.com SSAB Americas Tibnor AB SSAB Enterprises, LLC Box 600 801 Warrenville Rd., Suite 800 169 26 Solna, Sweden Lisle, Illinois 60532, USA Phone: +46 10 484 00 00 Phone: +1 630 810 4800 Fax: +46 10 484 00 75 Toll free: +1 877 594 7726 www.tibnor.se Fax: +1 630 810 4600 SSAB Tibnor Plannja The emission of green house gases from the production of this printed product including paper, other materials, and transports has been offset by investment in the corresponding amount of certified reduction units from the CDM project Gyapa Cook Stoves in Ghana.
