Every year Sonae publishes its Sustainability Report through which stakeholders* are informed about the strategy, management system, performance and economic, social and environmental commitments of its activity. This Sustainability Report relates to the financial year of 2011. It was drawn up following the guidelines defined by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)*, in its version 3.1, self-declaring the A level, whose compliance was verified by KPMG, SROC, SA, through an external verification, allowing to obtain the A + level. The information contained in this Report refers to Sonae’s activity, with particular emphasis on its Retail business area. The Report is organised into 4 main chapters: 1. A Greater World to Invest – includes information on strategy and the Company’s overall activity, incorporating consolidated performance indicators; 2. A Greater World to Involve – presents the Group’s consolidated information, describing the Sonae Group’s corporate governance model, risk management and the enhancement of its human capital. Furthermore, it includes information about relationships with stakeholders and the results of the annual process to sound out their views; 3. A Greater World to Discover – integrates information on Retail-specific management approaches and respective social and environmental performances as well as the state of compliance with those commitments assumed publicly by this business area and the presentation of commitments for 2012. These commitments have also been published in the REAP – Retail Environmental Action Plan* of the Retail Forum for Sustainability, an initiative of the European Commission and EuroCommerce. It also has a summary of the performance of the core partnerships of Sonae: Sonaecom and Sonae Sierra. Both companies have independent and detailed Sustainability Reports available in the fields of Corporate Responsibility of the respective sites: www.sonae.com and www.sonaesierra.com. 4. A Greater World to Evolve (annexes) – sets out Sonae’s indicators in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, the GRI table index and also the declaration of verification by an independent external entity. Note: Whenever the scope of reported information does not encompass all of Sonae’s activities, this will be mentioned in the Annexes. The relevant themes to be included in this document were identified via a benchmark* analysis and by a process whereby the opinions of the company’s main stakeholders were heard carried out in 2011. * See Glossary Should you require any further clarification about the information published in this Report or about Sustainability at Sonae, please contact: Catarina Oliveira Fernandes Head of Communication, Brand and Corporate Responsibility E-mail: catarina.fernandes@sonae.pt Tel.: 22 0104000 The Sonae Sustainability Report 2011 is also available online at: www.sonae.pt – Sustainability area. 07 The impact of the sovereign debt crisis and the ensuing austerity measures taken by the Iberian Peninsula governments have been harsh indeed. Private consumption has been on a downward spiral – particularly in Portugal – and the banking system is facing major challenges. Companies have been subject to severe credit restrictions and this, in conjunction with the high cost of financing, have placed constraints on growth strategies, making economic recovery an even stiffer task. A slow recovery is expected in the confidence of agents on the Iberian Markets and improvements in economic activity beyond the 2012 horizon. We are still positioning the company for international growth and for value creation. We hope to attain this by making the most of the management experience and leading position we have attained on the domestic market. We have continued to show renewed interest into expanding to new markets abroad, seeking to counterbalance the negative impacts of the domestic economy. However, we have been forced to scale down and adapt our international growth strategy in order to meet the sharp falls observed on non-food markets in the Iberian Peninsula and the difficulties encountered in accessing credit in the Portuguese banking system. Our international growth efforts have been maintained solely thanks to the resilience shown by the majority of our businesses, keeping EBITDA* margins up and generating cash flows capable of ensuring the financing of these investments, a reduction debt and the payment of dividends. We are still firmly committed to the communities where we are located. We are also committed to sustainability and we believe that our investors recognise this as a fundamental strategic force for organisational growth. We care about our employees and our customers and we also measure our success by the well-being of the former and the satisfaction of the latter. We are a demanding company guided by the principle of meritocracy, rewarding top performers and developing a strong, unified culture for success. In 2011 our teams managed to overcome major tests on their capacity and resilience – in 2012 that we will once again be put to the test. We are approaching the short-term evolution in retail sales both in Portugal and in Spain with some caution owing to the economic uncertainty and the low levels of consumer confidence which are set to continue throughout 2012. We wish to continue to be seen as a growing, well-reputed company which is highly valued by the customers, but also by the communities we serve, by our employees and by our shareholders and partners. We have firm belief in our commitment to sustainability and in the value added aspects we have to offer our customers by striking up long-lasting relations with our business partners. In the context of our sustainable development mission, we are continuing to undertake various actions and initiatives to support the Community, with such endeavours being of paramount importance in the current economic context, amounting to a total of 10.1 million euros invested. These supports have benefitted 3,051 organisations which aid communities and families nationwide, allowing the undertaking of actions in various areas such as welfare, culture, education, sports and the environment. Here at Sonae we are working to take on the current challenges whilst simultaneously constructing potential for the future. Paulo Azevedo CEO Sonae * See Glossary 09 “At Sonae we view sustainability as value creation for all our stakeholders in permanent fashion over time, meeting the highest ethical standards. In this regard, in 2011 we continued to implement our mission, remaining by the side of all our stakeholders. We increased salaries, cut debt, improved our efficiency and cooperated with our suppliers and partners. All of this in a difficult climate in which each and every one of us is asked to make a greater effort, but it is also more rewarding.” Ângelo Paupério, Executive Board Member Our mission is to create long-term economic and social value, taking the benefits of progress and innovation to a growing number of people and guiding our actions by values resulting in ethical, responsible behaviour. We are committed to creating economic value in the medium and long term, built on relationships founded on integrity and trust. Setting constant challenges and being open to change are crucial in attracting ambitious people. Our people are a determining factor in the markets where we operate and, for that reason, we invest in developing their capabilities and skills, and thereby further enrich our culture. Ambition is born from continuously establishing goals which will stretch us to our limits, stimulating our energy and reinforcing our determination. Ambition drives us and keeps us dissatisfied with the status quo, forcing us to go beyond our past successes. Innovation is at the heart of our businesses. Innovation involves risks, but we are aware of the importance of identifying and managing these risks, so as to maintain them within reasonable limits. We know that only by innovating can we grow sustainably. We have an active sense of social responsibility, and try to contribute to improving the communities within which we operate. Our behaviour takes into account the most recent environmental concerns and sustainable development policies. We aim to optimize the use of resources and maximize their return, seeking cost efficiency, and avoiding any waste or extravagance. As a priority, we focus on achieving operating efficiency, promoting healthy competition, and delivering high impact projects. We are willing and ready to cooperate with central and local governments, in order to improve regulatory, legal and social frameworks, and to ensure the best solutions for the communities within which we operate, but we also take care to maintain our independence in relation to all such entities. Business Areas Sonae is a Retail company with two major partnerships in the fields of Telecommunications, Software and Information and Media Systems (Sonaecom) and Shopping Centres (Sonae Sierra). It also has two business areas in Retail Properties (Sonae RP) and Investment Management. It carries out its activity in a total of 42 countries, including operations, provision of services to third parties, representation offices, franchising and partnerships. In the countries where it operates it is recognised as an organisation with a strong, value-based culture which contributes to social and economic development. % Stakes and Business Areas Core Core Related Active Businesses Partnerships Businesses Investments 100% 100% 50% 53% 100% 100% Sonae MC Sonae SR Sonae Sierra Sonaecom Sonae RP Investment Food Retail Specialized Shopping Telecommunications, Retail Management Retail Centres SSI &Media Real Estate 13 Book.it Modalfa Bookshop Sport Zone Bom Bocado Textile Sports Restaurants Pet & Plants Garden and animals Loop Footwear Vobis Computing Continente Hypermarkets Continente Ice Deep-frozen Zippy products Baby and Worten children´s White goods, Continente Well´s wear consumer modelo Worten electronics and Parapharmacies entertainment e Continente and Opticians Mobile bom dia Mobile Supermarkets telecommunications Sonae Retail Properties Joint-venture with Joint-Venture Saphety RAR-GEOSTAR with Software and Joint-venture with Group CRH-Maxmat Sistems Feffer – MDS, DIY Information Travel agencies Cooper Gay Swett WeDo Newspaper & Crawford Software and Público Insurance Brokerage Sistems Media Information Germany Mainroad Greece Alexa; Loop5; Romania Software and Bizdirect Sistems Software and Pantheon Münster Arkaden Rive Information Sistems Plaza Plaza Mall Information Optimus Telecommunications Italy Airone; Freccia Rossa; Gli Orsi; Valecenter 49 shopping centres Portugal 8ª Avenida; AlbufeiraShopping; AlgarveShopping; ArrábidaShopping; CascaiShopping; CC Continente de Spain Portimão; Centro Colombo; Centro Vasco Dos Mares; GranCasa; da Gama; CoimbraShopping; Estação La Farga; Luz del Tajo; Viana; GaiaShopping; GuimarãeShopping; Max Center; Parque Principado; LeiriaShopping; LoureShopping; Brazil Plaza Mayor; Valle Real; MadeiraShopping; MaiaShopping; Boavista Shopping; Franca Shopping; Zubiarte NorteShopping; Parque Atlântico; RioSul Manauara Shopping; Parque D.Pedro Shopping; Serra Shopping; ViaCatarina Shopping; Pátio Brazil Shopping; Shopping Campo Limpo; Shopping Metrópole; Shopping Penha; Shopping Plaza Sul; Tivoli Shopping Where we are In December 2011 Sonae was present in 42 countries. The markets covered include operations, provision of services to third parties, representative offices, franchising agreements and partnerships. Germany/ Netherlands/ Luxembourg/ Russia Canada Poland Ireland/ UK Portugal/ Spain/ USA/ France Mexico Morocco Egypt China/ Kazakhstan Colombia/ Malaysia/ Panama/ Singapore Saint Vincent Saudi Arabia/ Ecuador United Arab Emirates/ Lebanon/ Bahrain/ Kuwait/ Qatar/ Jordan Cyprus/ Brazil Angola Chile Argentina Greece/ Romania/ Italy/ Australia Turkey/ Serbia/ Croatia 15 Sonae MC is a leader on the national market in the food retail area. It has 454 stores out of a total of 564,000m2 of sales’ area under the brands: Bom Bocado (restaurants), Book.it (bookshop/stationers), Continente (hypermarkets), Continente modelo, Continente bom dia (supermarkets), Continente Ice (deep­‑frozen products), Pet & Plants (garden and pets) and Well´s (parapharmacies and opticians). Operating markets: Portugal, Angola and China Some performance indicators in 2011 Turnover: 3.327 million euros EBITDA: 235 million euros Sonae SR operates in the specialized retail area. It has a total of 562 stores (124 outside Portugal) representing a total sales’ area of 423,000m2 under the brands: Loop (footwear); Modalfa (textile); Sport Zone (sports); Vobis (computing); Worten (white goods, consumer electronics and entertainment); Worten Mobile (mobile telecommunications) and Zippy (baby and children´s wear). Operating markets: Portugal, Spain, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Lebanon, Bahrain, Kuwait, Kazakhstan, Qatar, Jordan, Egypt, Turkey Some performance indicators in 2011 Turnover: 1.235 million euros EBITDA: 1 million euros Sonae Sierra is an international specialist in shopping centres. Owned in 50%, through a joint venture, by Grosvenor, it operates nationwide and worldwide holding in its portfolio a total of 49 shopping centres and also the management of 17 shopping centres owned by third parties. In total, its portfolio has a gross leasable area of 2.2 million m2. It has 5 projects under construction and a further 6 at different stages of development. Operating markets: Portugal, Spain, Brazil, Italy, Germany, Greece, Romania, Colombia, Serbia, Cyprus, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Morocco and Croatia. Some performance indicators in 2011 Turnover: 194 million euros EBITDA: 92 million euros Sonaecom acts in three main business areas: Telecommunications (Optimus); Media (Público) and Software and Systems Information (Bizdirect, Mainroad, WeDo and Saphety). In the telecommunications’ service it has around 3.6 million clients. Operating markets: Portugal, Spain, Netherlands, Brazil, Ireland, United Kingdom, Poland, Australia, USA, Mexico, Singapore, Chile, Malaysia, Panama, Egypt, France. Some performance indicators in 2011 Turnover: 864 million euros EBITDA: 213 million euros The main operating areas of Sonae Retail Properties are the management and valuation of real estate assets, commercial gallery management (management of real estate interests with over one hundred commercial galleries, all endowed with a Continente store as the main anchor) and the management of three real estate investment funds through the holding company which is its affiliate, Sonaegest. Operating markets: Portugal. Some performance indicators in 2011 Turnover: 119 million euros EBITDA: 104 million euros Investment Management The Investment Management area is the business area responsible for the mergers and acquisitions of Sonae. It is based on the implementation of corporate and business strategy, maximizing the shareholder return in its company portfolio which includes Maxmat (DIY and construction materials), Geostar (travel agencies) and MDS (insurance brokerage), companies in which it is considered that mergers and acquisitions have an important role to play in value creation. Operating markets: Portugal, Spain, Brazil, United Kingdom, Australia, USA, Canada, Mexico, Singapore, Chile, France, Kazakhstan, China, Russia, Ecuador, Argentina, Saint Vincent, Germany, Colombia. Some performance indicators in 20111 Turnover: 130 million euros EBITDA: 3 million euros 17  Launch of the Horizon project for increasing Creation of the Environmental Forum to share environmental management as a differentiation experiences and the dissemination of good factor and competitive advantage practices  Signed up to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development* Creation of BCSD Portugal* – Business Approval of the Environmental Launch of the Eco2 XXI programme, Council for Sustainable Development Policy and the environmental having the aim of the effective with Sonae as a founding member management system of Sonae implementation of actions with  Publication of Sonae’s first a view to increasing eco-efficiency Environmental Report Signed up to the United Nations Has signed the World Safety Declaration* Global Compact*  Creation of the Sustainability Forum which was developed from the Environmental Forum Publication of a “A commitment Publication of “Sonae, Much more Publication of Sonae’s first 50 years ahead” than numbers” consolidated Sustainability  Adoption of the Fishing Sustainability  Subscription to the HIV/AIDS Code Report Policy of Conduct  Subscription to the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights Integration into GEP – Global Enterprise Project* Signed up to the Global Business Oath of the World Economic Forum* Signed up to the Retail Forum for Sustainability  Staging of the 1st event of the Sustainability Forum open to the various stakeholders under the theme “Sonae for the Better” * See Glossary Highlights 2011: We are the only Portuguese company involved in the Global Enterprise Project, a European platform to promote entrepreneurialism amongst secondary school pupils in Europe. This initiative involves the Junior Achievement – Young Enterprise Europe, an association specialized in training in entrepreneurialism, the European Round Table of Industrialists (ERT*), an organisation which brings together the main European business leaders (including the CEO of Sonae, Paulo Azevedo) and European Schoolnet, a network which brings together the Ministries of Education of 30 European countries with a view to innovating in education and training. We signed up to the Retail Forum for Sustainability, an initiative of the European Commission and EuroCommerce to promote consumer models which are more sustainable from an ecological perspective. This Forum only accepts Retailer Associations or companies which, inter alia, have signed up to the REAP – Retail Environmental Action Plan.This is an environmental action plan which identifies individual commitments in terms of the retail companies that sign up. This involvement entails the dissemination of sustainability commitments assumed annually by Companies/ Associations as well as the annual monitoring of respective compliance (the state of compliance of these commitments is stated in chapter 3). * See Glossary 19 Where we are going and why Sonae’s corporate strategy is based on value creation through three strategic aspects, to wit, internationalization, diversification of the investment style and leverage of the asset base in Portugal. Internationalization Diversification of Leverage the exceptional investment style asset base in Portugal Adopt the most Main appropriate Innovate strategic investment priority style Wholly owned Risk businesses Generate new dilution businesses per country Partnerships New Strengthen growth competitive methods Minority position stakes In Portugal: Capital light approach Leverage on assets Format leader in mature (rental vs. ownership; and core competencies markets; partnerships vs. full control): in Portugal, and develop new projects Broad-spanning Accelerate growth in adjacent areas; competencies; and reduce debt; Strengthen the asset base New opportunities Release capital via the sale and protect the core to create value. of real estate assets; markets. Minimise risks. To achieve the strategic objectives, our activity is based on 3 performance pillars: Governance Environment Social To maintain the Board of Directors To improve the Company´s To contribute towards the and employees high ethical environmental performance economic, social and environmental standards when interacting with by investments that reduce growth of regions and countries various stakeholders in different its Ecological Footprint*. where Sonae operates. Defend countries. human rights and meritocracy. * See Glossary Internationalization Internationalization focused on core businesses and adjacent business areas, will become the main future growth vector during the course of the coming years. Due to this being the main strategic priority, all necessary resources will be allocated to it, because it grants the opportunity to increase the company’s presence abroad and to transform Sonae into a great multinational Company. Diversification of the investment style The intention is to leverage Sonae’s resources and the efficiency of the implementation strategy, adopting a style or mix of styles most suited to each business, ranging from detaining the entire capital to detaining several majority ownerships, but also including minority interests with or without special rights. Sonae may participate in the share capital of companies over which it has no control, in situations where it does not have the necessary resources or when third-party contribution may serve as a factor for creating superior economic value. Under these circumstances, consolidation processes will be promoted in addition to other restructuring movements in the sectors involved, such as entering new territories as partners with the capacity to bring technical expertise and develop the necessary network of high-level professional relationships. Levering the exceptional asset base in Portugal To continue to explore new business opportunities that derive from the exceptional asset base that Sonae holds in Portugal, as a means in which to create a set of options for future growth. These projects must possess the majority of the following characteristics: (i) clear internationalization potential; (ii) attractive levels of potential profitability; (iii) enable them to take advantage of great global trends; (iv) represent the strengthening of competitive position; (v) have the potential to become large business in the medium term. A significant portion of capital will be allocated to these new projects, depending on their capacity to generate growth and economic value. Similarly, special attention will be given to detect as early as possible, signs of success or failure of these investments, so as to, in a timely manner, make decisions regarding further investments, mergers or divestments. Application of the strategy in the different businesses: 1. Focus on leadership and profitability This global strategy is applied to each and every Retail business area, individually and according to their specific characteristics. In the food retail business(Sonae MC), the strategy is directly related to consolidating market leadership in Portugal; studying new adjacent business areas and managing the business in Portugal as a cash-flow generators, whilst at the same time dedicating efforts to seek international opportunities. Sonae Sierra intends to maintain its main focus on shopping centres, continuing to include the ownership, development and management of shopping centres as well as the customer services. The Company’s goal is to create unique shopping centres, developing innovative concepts that bring together the right mix, architecture, environment, services, continuing to focus on assets in its area of influence and to associate with retailers and other partners of selected industries in order to develop new shopping experiences. Sonaecom is a growth-oriented company which has set its sights on being the best provider of communications services in Portugal, creating an environment of choice for the development of the best professionals’ potential. It specifically commits to creating products, services and innovative solutions which meet the needs of the markets and generate greater economic value. 21 2. Focus on growth and internationalization Regarding Specialized Retail (Sonae SR), the focus is on growth via internationalization, namely in the Spanish market by the continuous investment and strengthening of Sonae´s presence in Spain. The management of business opportunities in new territories, based on franchise agreements and joint-ventures, is also part of the accelerated growth strategy, as well as the consolidation of the leadership position in the Portuguese market and the increase in profitability. Sonae Sierra intends to continue its international growth and get into new and emerging markets, where the retail industry is experiencing strong growth and the consumers’ purchasing power has a significant potential for growth. Greater growth in operations is expected in the Mediterranean Basin and Latin America. It is also analysing potential markets in Eastern Europe and Asia, especially China, based on the rendering of services to third parties. 3. Monetization of real estate assets In the Retail Real Estate business (Sonae RP), additional sale and leaseback asset transactions are planned, with the objective of freeing up capital invested in real estate assets to finance growth. Notwithstanding, the current macroeconomic and financial scenarios have lead Sonae to concentrate the majority of its assets in generating and preserving capital, which alters the Company´s plans and tactics significantly, but no its outlook on the future. Sonae Sierra is committed to dynamic portfolio management and it is seeking to improve capital intelligence and follow unleveraged investment strategy. This strategy includes rendering services to third parties and taking up minority interests in new partnerships. It envisages a reduction in capital stakes and, in some cases, the disposal of non-strategic shopping centres on mature markets; this will release capital to finance the development portfolio on growing markets. In 2011, Sonae MC consolidated its leadership on the Portuguese market through a rapid, effective adaptation of its offer to the consumption habits of its clients and it has continued to explore new adjoining business opportunities. Sonae MC has expanded its presence in Portugal, opening up 5.5 thousand m2 and it concluded the brands unification process under the “Continente” brand. It was selected as the “Trusted Brand” by the Portuguese in 2011, for the 9th consecutive time. Sonae SR continued its internationalization process, expanding its main brands in Spain. Concurrently, it continued to consolidate its leadership on the Portuguese market, assuming it as the basic market for new brand and format development tests. In 2011 it has opened up 44 specialized Retail stores (under brands Worten, Sport Zone, Modalfa and Zippy), totalling over 46 thousand m2. Sonae Sierra has continued to grow on emerging markets, particularly in Brazil and in service companies. It has also grown in terms of services to third parties, taking advantage of the experience acquired as a retail real estate and real estate asset management promoter. Sonaecom achieved a record year in 2011 in terms of profit and cash flow generation, having distributed the first dividends in its history. It maintained its focus on the growth of the mobile business, obtaining gains in mobile market share, particularly in the mobile data segment and in cash flow generation, strengthening its efficiency programmes. The Sonae RP business, management and development of real estate assets continued in 2011 to actively manage the Retail real estate assets with a view to increasing Sonae’s capacity to achieve its growth objectives. In 2011 the Investment Management area continued its value creation work for Sonae through support to the implementation of corporate and business strategies, the maximisation of returns to shareholders, active support to the planning and implementation of mergers and acquisitions as well as strengthening business relationships with players from industry, consultants and investment banks. Further information, about Sonae’s economic performance, is available in the annual report and accounts (vide www.sonae.pt/en/investors/financial-data/). Economic Indicators – Highlights In 2011, we were faced with different macroeconomic environments in the countries where we operate. Despite the difficult climate in the Iberian Peninsula, our turnover remained virtually stable at 5.7 billion euros1, a major achievement which was only possible thanks to gains in market share in the main business areas during the course of this period. TURNOVER: RECURRING EBITDA: NET DEBT: 5,718 Million € 661 Million € 2,660 Million € -1% 4% -5% INVESTMENT IN THE COMMUNITY: TAXES PAID TO THE STATE: 10.1 Million €* 40 Million € -2% 31% 1 The remit of the analysis excludes sales relating to petrol stations (insofar as the company has transferred the operation of 8 stations to third parties in the 2nd quarter of 2010) and incorporates the re-statement of turnover for 2010 of Geostar, bearing in mind the analysis of practices in the sector. *The investment value in the community excludes direct contributions from clients. If client donations raised through our actions are included, the value would be 10.8 Million €. 23 Evolution of the business units’ contribution to turnover Evolution of the business units’ contribution to turnover 56.7% Sonae MC 55.3% 54.6% 21.0% Sonae SR 21.5% 19.9% 14.7% Sonaecom 15.6% 16.7% 3.3% Sonae Sierra 3.2% 3.2% 2.0% Sonae RP 2.1% 2.2% 2.2% Investment Management 2.3% 3.4% 2011 2010 2009 Evolution of business units’ contribution to EBITDA Evolution of business units’ contribution to EBITDA 36.3% Sonae MC 34.0% 32.1% 32.9% Sonaecom 28.6% 28.4% 16.0% Sonae RP 16.3% 17.9% 14.2% Sonae Sierra 13.5% 13.7% 0.2% Sonae SR 6.6% 7.7% 0.5% Investment Management 0.9% 0.2% 2011 2010 2009 Creation and distribution of economic value Evolution in the economic value generated, retained and distributed 2011 Economic value retained 437 Million euros -12% compared to 2010 Economic value Economic value generated distributed 6,202 Million euros 5,765 Million euros -3% compared to 2010 -2% compared to 2010 Employees Investors 12.3% 3.2% State 0.7% Community 0.2% Suppliers 83.5% In 2011 the economic value generated fell by 3% on a year-on-year basis, attaining 6.2 billion euros, with 5.8 billion having been distributed amongst the various stakeholders, particularly in operating costs, followed by the payments of salaries and benefits to employees, payments to investors, the State and donations and investments in the community. State subsidies were also received for the sum of 4.9 million euros, there having been a reduction of around 41% on the 2010 figure2. 2 The amount received in 2011 relating to State subsidies does not consider the SIFIDE value (Tax Incentive Systems to Business R&D). 25 Environmental and social indicators – Highlights Despite the fact that each of Sonae’s business areas has specific impacts on the respective activities, transversal social and environmental impacts were identified. Environmental and social impacts SONAE MC AND SONAE RP AND INVESTMENT SONAECOM SONAE SR SONAE SIERRA MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Energy and Emissions Waste* Water consumption Transport Supply chain impacts Biodiversity* and habitats Electromagnetic fields SOCIAL IMPACTS Creation of direct and indirect employment Satisfaction and investment in employees Health and safety of stakeholders Involvement with the community Value chain Food safety Digital inclusion/information society * See Glossary In 2011 we achieved the following consolidated social and environmental performance results: Evolution of the main consolidated social and environmental performance indicators (2011) ENERGY Energy consumption: 831 GJ*/Million euros -10% compared to 2010 WATER Water consumption: 359 m3/Million euros -6% compared to 2010 ENVIRONMENT WASTE Waste production: 20t/Million euros + 3% compared to 2010 Waste recovery: 67% -4% compared to 2010 CO2 EMISSIONS CO2 emissions: 51t CO2e*/Million euros + 2% compared to 2010 Energy consumption by millions of euros Water consumption by millions of euros of turnover of turnover 950 923 1000 500 831 405 380 800 400 359 600 300 GJ/M€ m3/M€ 400 200 200 100 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Waste production by millions of euros CO2e emissions by millions of euros of turnover of turnover 25 80 20 67 19 19 20 60 50 51 15 t/M€ tCO2e*/M€ 40 10 5 20 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 * See Glossary 27 INVESTMENT IN THE COMMUNITY 1,766 €/ Millions of euros generated 1% down compared to 2010 ABSENTEEISM RATE 3.4% -0.06 p.p. compared to 2010 SOCIAL TRAINING HOURS 1.423M hours of training -5% compared to 2010 ACCIDENTS AT WORK 1,758 accidents at work -6% compared to 2010 Investment in community by turnover Absenteeism rate Hours of absenteeism/ workable 2,000 1,787 1,766 4.0% 3.6% 1,665 3.4% 3.5% 1,500 3.0% €/Millions euros 2.5% 1,000 2.0% 1.3%* 1.5% 500 1.0% 0.5% 0 0.0% 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 * In 2009 the Retail area did not report the absenteeism rate. Number of accidents 1,879 2,000 1,758 1,500 1,213 Number of accidents 1,000 500 0 2009 2010 2011 In 2011 we were recognised in the following areas: We were regarded as one of the most ethical companies worldwide in 2011, having been the only Portuguese company to win an award according to the Ethisphere Institute In accordance with the Carbon Disclosure Project*, and in conjunction with Sonaecom, we led environmental performance amongst the main Portuguese companies which have formed part of the study “CDP Iberia 125 Report 2011” We were ranked first in the study Best Companies for Leadership Portugal 2011 Hay Group under the category Best School of Leaders European Good Practice Award (European Agency for Health and Safety at Work) We were elected Company of the Year by Junior Achievement Portugal for providing the largest number of volunteers nationwide. The Annual Report & Accounts 2008 was distinguished under the category Graphis 100 Best Annual Reports with a Platinum Award. Mobile Portal recognised at the IDC CIO Awards 2011 Design Media & Advertising '11 Award under the Rebranding and Integrated Project category Bronze Portugal Creatives Club Festival (Brochures and Rebranding) Golden Lion Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity Design Consumer Services Red Dot in the Communication Design category According to the MyBrand Reputation Index 2011 Study, Sonae is the company with the best reputation in Portugal Eurobest – Bronze: Design category * See Glossary 29 In 2011 we were recognised by the Ethisphere Institute as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the implementation of transparent business practices and initiatives which benefit to the community, raising the bar of ethical standards among all our stakeholders. For the first time a Portuguese company was awarded that distinction. This recognition confirms the commitment of Sonae as regards the creation of economic value based on ethical principles and sustainable development* in a long term horizon, based on trust relationships. Testimony: “At a time when companies strive to maintain a competitive advantage, good practices mean better business and better business means profits. Sonae recognises the important role played by practices in brand reputation, which ultimately is the company most valuable asset. The Ethisphere Institute congratulated Sonae for being one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2011” Alex Brigham, Executive Director, Ethisphere Institute In 2011, we received the distinction of “Best School of Leaders” in Portugal, reaching the first ranking of the Best Companies for Leadership study in Portugal, an initiative of the Hay Group consultancy, worldwide, which distinguishes the best companies in training leaders. The international study, which in 2011 had its second edition in Portugal, was based on the vote of our country business leaders and once more has placed Sonae on top of Talent Management and Leadership Development. This award is a recognition of the perseverance, determination and the company’s ongoing commitment to develop its talents, by adopting the best practices in managing its human resources, leading innovation in attracting and retaining talent. Testimony: “This award reflects Sonae’s recognition in the Portuguese market, as leadership school. “The focus on sustainable development of its leaders at all levels of the organization is an integral part of its DNA and it is an undeniable part in how it generates competitive advantage in everything it does. Sonae apply the best global practices of leadership development so tenacious, determined and continuous, that in the opinion of its peers, becomes an example to follow. Rui Luz, Partner, Hay Group * See Glossary In 2011 the various business units of Sonae obtained external recognition from many sources, highlighting the following: Sonae MC R  eputation Awards 2010 (APECOM*): the “Causa Maior” Project obtained the Reputation Award under the corporate social responsibility* category and the “Pic Nic” Project obtained an honourable mention in the event category. Continente obtained the following distinctions: Trusted Brand for the 9th consecutive year. Brand of excellence at Superbrands 2011, Hipersuper Award 2011, under four categories: Best Retailer, Best DPH, Best Grocery Store and Best Food Retailer and Best Brand 2010 in the Media & Advertising Awards 2011. The Awards for Communication Efficiency VII assigned various acknowledgements in the following categories: Bronze – the Continente Online Paediatrics initiative (Corporate Social Responsibility category); Silver – the Mega Pic Nic Continente project 2011 (Activation and Sponsorship category) and the Continente Smile Mission 2010 (Corporate Social Responsibility category); Gold – the Wells brand (Health, Hygiene and Beauty category).  onae MC also obtained a Portuguese Red Cross Plaque of Honour for the important services it has provided S under a partnership in place since 2007 and which has taken the form of various corporate social responsibility actions such as “Causa Maior” and the campaign “Together We give more”. Sonae SR Worten obtained the following distinctions: Hipersuper Awards 2011 – Worten distinguished as having the Best Non-food Retail Marketing, Trusted Brand for the 9th consecutive year and “PC Guia” Reader Award for the best point of sale for computer material. The “Arredonda” project (Worten/Ajuda de Berço) was awarded a gold medal in the Communication Efficiency Awards VII under the corporate social responsibility category. The Zippy brand went into the Guinness Book of Records for the biggest logo comprising 4,000 t-shirts. * See Glossary 31 Sonaecom Sonaecom was distinguished under the Energy Efficiency Awards Portugal 2010 as the “Most Efficient Company”. According to the Global Ranking ACGE* 2011, Sonaecom is the highest ranked company in terms of climate responsibility. This index, promoted by Euronatura, awarded Sonaecom first place in the ICT sector (Information and Communication Technologies) and sixth place in the overall ranking. Optimus Clix won an award under the Telecommunications’ category at the APCC* Portugal Best Awards 2010, having been regarded as the Best Customer Service and the Best Customer Service in Portugal. Optimus was regarded as the Best in Customer Service – EMEA at the Contact Center World 2011 Awards. Sonae Sierra Sonae Sierra was recognised at the European Risk Management Awards 2010 in the Most Innovative Use of IT or other; category and at the Construir Awards 2011 as the Best Real Estate Developer. Sonae Sierra was also successful at the Euromoney Real Estate Awards as the Best Retail Developer Award for Portugal, Brazil and Latin America and the Best Developer Overall. Norte Green (Norteshopping + Sport Zone) won the Silver Award at the ICSC Jean Louis Solal Marketing Awards 2011 under the Cause Related Marketing category. The Colombo Shopping Centre won the Real Estate Award at the National Real Estate Awards 2011 in the Special Magazine Award category; and was regarded as the Best Shopping Centre at the Workmedia Hipersuper Awards 2011. LeiriaShopping was recognised under the Real Estate Oscar – Retail Developments category at the National Real Estate Awards 2011 – Real Estate Review, winning the Eurohypo Award. Loop5 was recognised under the large new development category at the ICSC European Shopping Centre Awards. * See Glossary 33 “At the present time we need to look towards the future and understand in what way our country and companies can act to promote economic growth and generate wealth for society. We have a commitment to sustainability as a whole and our mission is to create economic and social value. As the largest private employer in Portugal, we are a company for people meaning that the development of the potential of our asset is strategic. By contrast, we are still committed to promoting a culture involving active participation in society.” Luís Filipe Reis, Chief Corporate Center Officer Sonae’s Corporate Governance structure is made up of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Statutory External Auditor, all of whom are elected by the General Shareholders Meeting. The Board of Directors (CA), comprising 9 directors, 3 of whom are executive and 6 non-executive, delegated the Company’s day-to-day management to an Executive Committee, regulating its operation and the way in which it will exercise the powers bestowed upon it. The members of governing bodies, the General Meeting Board and the Remuneration Committee are elected for four year periods and may be re-elected after that period. Governing Bodies Board Nomination and Board Board Audit and Remuneration Commitee of Directors Finance Commitee Board and Corporate Company Governance Officer Secretary Statutory Audit Board Shareholders' Chairman Shareholders' Remuneration General Meeting Daniel Bessa Fernandes Coelho Committee Chairman Members Belmiro Mendes de Azevedo Arlindo Dias Duarte da Silva Manuel Cavaleiro Brandão Artur Eduardo Brochado dos Santos Silva Jorge Manuel Felizes Morgado Secretary Francisco de La Fuente Sánches Substitute Maria da Conceição Cabaços Óscar José Alçada da Quinta Statutory External Auditor Board of Directors Deloitte & Associados, SROC, S.A. Chairman Belmiro Mendes de Azevedo Members Álvaro Carmona e Costa Portela Álvaro Cuervo Garcia Michele Marie Bon Board Audit and José Manuel Neves Adelino Finance Commitee Board of Nomination Bernd Hubert Joaquim Bothe and Remuneration Christine Cross Chairman Commitee Duarte Paulo Teixeira de Azevedo Michele Marie Bon Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério Members Chairman Álvaro Cuervo Garcia Nuno Manuel Moniz Trigoso Jordão Belmiro Mendes de Azevedo José Manuel Neves Adelino Members Bernd Hubert Joaquim Bothe Michele Marie Bon Christine Cross Christine Cross Executive Commitee Chairman Duarte Paulo Teixeira de Azevedo Members Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério Nuno Manuel Moniz Trigoso Jordão Further information is available about the workings of corporate governance in the annual Corporate Governance Report (vide www.sonae.pt/en/investors/corporate-governance/). 37 Audit Risk Management General Counsel and Corporate Governance Organisational Structure Finance and Treasury Tax Legal The organisational departments of Sonae are answerable to the Executive Committee in accordance with the Planning and Control Human Resources Sonae's Executive Committee Communication, Brand and Corporate Responsibility Institutional Relations Investor Relations Administrative Services Information Systems structure whereby employees may provide guidelines and recommendations to the governance bodies. Risk Management is one of the organisational culture components and is a mainstay of Corporate Governance; it can be found in all management processes and is the responsibility of all employees at the different levels of the organisation. The objective of risk management is to create value by managing and controlling the threats and opportunities that can affect the business objectives and companies in terms of keeping the latter as going concerns. Along with Environmental Management and Social Responsibility, it is also one of the pillars of sustainable development, contributing to the continued, sustainable development of businesses through better knowledge and more effective management of the risks and opportunities which can impact organisations. Risk Management Model 1 Create Risk Management Infrastructure: Goals and objectives Organisation of Risk Management Common risk language Risk management tools and processes Resources 2 Identify and evaluate risks: Identify risks Prioritise risks Investigate causes (drivers) Prepare risk map Identify risk owners 5 Monitoring and Reporting 3 Evaluate risk management strategies Monitor progress executing the risk management plan Determine responses Monitor changes to the risk profile to risk Report progress on executing the plan to risk owners (management and Board of Directors as appropriate) 4 Develop and implement risk management actions: Develop risk management action plans Build risk management into the annual planning cycle 39 Risk Management activity in terms of governance and business is supported by functions involving Risk Management, Internal Audit and Management Control and Planning departments through especially dedicated teams which report directly to the respective Boards of Directors of the business areas. Risk Management Internal Audit Management Control and Planning This is charged with the mission Evaluates the effectiveness Promotes and supports the of ensuring companies attaining their of management and of the integration of Risk Management into objectives through a systematic, struccontrols of the risks of the company management control tured approach to opportunity and risk processes and information and planning process. management and identification. systems. The Board of Directors and the Auditing and Finance Committee are responsible for monitoring Risk Management activities. The risks of the reliability and integrity of the financial and accounting information are also assessed and reported by an External Audit unit. At the end of May 2011, the Internal Audit and Risk Management department was separated into two separate departments as a way of strengthening the teams and increasing the focus on each of the respective areas so that they can meet Sonae’s requirements in the best way possible nationally and internationally and it was thus opted to present the information of both areas individually. In 2011 the Risk Management Department continued with the de Enterprise Wide Risk Management (EWRM*) with the involvement of the Risk Monitoring Groups (GAR) formed by members of the Executive Committees of Sonae MC, Sonae SR and Sonae RP, in accordance with the activities described below: Risk Management Activities Evaluation of BRM Validation Formalize Monitoring and (Business Risk Model) attitude Reporting to risk Identify risks Validation of Risks Map Define with Risk Owners: Risk Indicators (how to (individual prioritisation) Company Policy (degree of risk measure each risk) Evaluate BRM risks to be accepted) (impact and probability) Relativize importance Monitoring actions of each risk Appetite for and tolerance of risk Analise proposal for risk ownership Assignment of risk ownership Actions to mitigation (how to control risks) Method Survey Workshop Interviews Six monthly review of risk by owner Outputs Risk Map Six monthly report BRM validated RMG (Risk Monitoring Group) on risk trend * See Glossary In order to support this activity throughout Sonae, in 2011 the internal development of an applicational tool was concluded based on the international Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)* which encompasses the following stages: IDENTIFICATION RISK MONITORING OF RISKS FILES AND REPORTING Select risks from Sonae’s Identify risk owners Monitor and implement Risk Matrix action plans Answer questionnaires Identify drivers and triggers Monitor Risk Indicators Reprioritise risks of risks Monitor Risk Indicators Report Identificar os indicadores chave de risco (KRIs) Identify treatment options of risks Main milestones of Risk Management activity in 2011 Crisis Management Manual Continente modelo Application of Risk Risk Management of the Customer Management Loyalty Card Crisis Management Manual Risk Management Continente bom dia of Continente Online Reinsurance Audits 2011/12 EWRM Sonae RP Control Risk Self Assessement 2nd half EWRM Sonae MC EWRM Sonae SR Control Risk Self Assessement 1st half * See Glossary 41 The following Risk Management activities have been planned for 2011: Implementation of Enterprise Wide Risk Management programmes in the businesses of Sonae MC, Sonae SR and Sonae RP. Risk management and analysis in the projects structuring the various businesses. Drawing up of business continuity and crisis management manuals for the main business units. Management of the annual insurance programme. Our Human Resources’ policy is carried out with a view to attaining the sustainable creation of value in alignment with business strategy. As the largest private employer in Portugal in 2011, we have had a major impact on the qualification and development of our staff. At Sonae we set out to maintain a working environment which is balanced, healthy and safe, respecting the rights of equality of opportunity and non-discrimination in recruitment and development opportunities and career advancement. At the end of 2011 our headcount stood at 39,819. Of the latter around 77% have open-ended contract, 59% are young people aged under 35 and 65% are women. Types of Contracts of Employment 77% Open-ended contract (permanent) 23% Fixedterm contract Distribution of employees by business area Sonaecom 5% Investment Management 4% Sonae Sierra 3% Sonae RP 0.1% Sonae SR 24% Sonae MC 64% We are an international organisation with an ethical, behavioural legacy based on the wide variety of paths and individual profiles of our staff, spread around the wide range of geographical locations where we can be found. This legacy of values is the basis for growth and success and, in 2011, it was laid down in writing in a document called “our way” which sums up our attitude in life and business. OUR VALUES Ethics and Trust People at the centre of our success Ambition •Innovation Social Responsibility Frugality and Efficiency Cooperation and Independence OUR TEAMS HOW WE WORK Richness and diversity of the With excellence backgrounds and profiles of our people With frankness and clarity Teamwork is the key to our success With merit Innovation and talent With boldness Respect With common sense Quality and accuracy With curiosity Good working environment With creativity Transparent and sincere relationships By being customer focused With a sense of ownership Communicating OUR MANAGERS Leadership Availability Delivery Positive manner Challenge Excellence Firmness Honesty Courage Recognition Open mind Credibility Example 43 This document describes the attitudes and behaviour expected from employees and addresses to each the responsibility, in their relationship with the various groups of stakeholders on a day-to-day basis, for ensuring that this constitutes a true reflection of the organisation. Sonae has already been recognised abroad for its best practices, intrinsically related with our values. An example is the fact that we are now on the list of the 100 most ethical companies in the world, an acknowledgement of our commitment to create economic value based on ethical, trusting relations. We cultivate these relations and we believe that they promote a good working environment. Cyclically, we monitor the internal social climate through diagnostic studies which allow us to identify opportunities for improvement. The employees also have a “Sonae Ombudsman” who ensures the management and communication of their complaints, claims or suggestions. In 2011 we promoted a study aimed at the public and employees of Sonae, Sonaecom and Sonae Sierra to sound out their perceptions and opinions about the theme of Employer Brand (EB – organisation’s image as an employer) and Employment Value Proposition (EVP – set of attributes perceived as a value gained by employment with the organisation). Based on an appraisal of the drivers, Compensations, Opportunities, Organisation, Work and People, it was sought to pinpoint the strengths and opportunities for improvement in terms of attracting and holding onto employees according to the following analysis perspectives: External knowledge Perceptions Identification Relevance levels about about Sonae of expectations as and attractiveness the Sonae reality as an employer regards the ideal of Sonae employer Study target segments: Internal public: Sonae employees (Sonae MC; Sonae SR; Corporate Centre), Sonaecom and Sonae Sierra to discharge duties in Portugal, Spain and Brazil. External public: New graduates looking for their first job and graduates who have been working for over 3 years residing in the areas of Greater Lisbon and Madrid. Against a backdrop of business growth and internationalization, the investment in the development of our best people forms an integral part of the implementation of our strategy. In this regard, the correct identification, evaluation and boosting of the development of the best talents has become a priority. 2011 was characterised by a major investment in the revision of the process to manage the performance of our permanent employees, creating a new performance management model – Improving Our People. This new model sets great store by the broad range of employee backgrounds and profiles, accommodating the wide range of businesses and locations where we can be found. Improving Our People The new performance management model is based on continuous interaction and accountability shared between the superior and the employee, fostering a commitment by our teams to their own development. Based on the merit and added value that employees bring to their jobs and to Sonae, it defends a clearness of purpose, thoroughness of results and openness as regards recognition. It is against this backdrop that Improving Our People GT (Growth Toolkit) arises, associated with the Improving Our People process. This talent management tool is geared towards the more senior employees of the organisation, as well as those employees identified as having the greatest potential for growth. In 2011, around 40 Senior Executives were involved in this process and in 2012 it is set to integrate around 60 employees with great potential. Here at Sonae we are endowed with a career model whose general objective consists of supporting the management of the talent pipeline in the organisation, promoting an alignment between business priorities and the professional development expectations of employees. It reveals and clarifies the set of functional requirements, mobility criteria and natural trajectories to evolution, boosting the vertical, horizontal and zig-zagging mobility of our employees, as well as the transversality and broadness of their competences by way of intra and/or inter functional areas and inter company experiences. This model reflects two management approaches: an initial approach, focused on the human resources’ planning needs of the organisation and a further approach was more aimed towards the employee as an actor in his own professional and personal development. Emphasising and valuing the proactive, enterprising role of our people in terms of the management of their own careers, the model seeks to support the optimisation of their potential and the acquisition of a clear vision about the different development options provided by the organisation both at the company and at the other companies of Sonae. Training Training at Sonae plays a major role in the personal and professional development of our employees, stressing as the main benefits the exposure to up-and-coming themes and current trends; the discussion and debating of the challenges and problems of the business with top experts, as well as the creation of discussion fora and networking with peers from other organisations. 45 In this way we have sought to provide our employees with diversified, differentiating training programmes at renowned national and international schools which enable the strengthening of key competences: management and leadership competences as well as personal and interpersonal competences. As well as each business unit having its own training and development system, since 2004 we have been endowed with the Sonae Learning Centre (SLC), a space dedicated to the ongoing training of senior managers. In 2011 this executive training structure had 1,356 participants, totalling 11,652 hours of training. Programa Contacto (Contact Programme) 2011 Rede Contacto (Contact Network) The Rede Contacto (Contact Network), created in 2010, was one of the first world networks launched by an economic group with a view to detecting and recruiting talent. It constitutes a way of Sonae companies contacting participants, thereby narrowing the relationship with the university community. After registering at www.programacontactosonae.com, students have the chance to test their knowledge by taking innovative challenges and quizzes. They also have the chance to be kept up-to-date about the special offers and what’s new at Sonae Companies. Their participation is scored and the best ones will access the Contact Day. At the end of 2011 the Network had around 15,000 registered users. Dia Contacto (Contact Day) The Dia Contacto (Contact Day) consists of an initiative aimed at the best Higher Education final-year students in Portugal, selected by means of the Rede Contacto (Contact Network). During the day participants have the chance to be in direct contact with Belmiro de Azevedo, the Chairman of Sonae and Paulo Azevedo, CEO of Sonae, and to find about the businesses of the Sonae Companies, the development plans and strategy for the future. In total almost 4,000 young people took part in the Dia Contacto (Contact Day). The Dia Contacto (Contact Day) event was distinguished as one of the good practices of Sonae by EuroCommerce. Call For Solutions Universities This initiative is an open innovation program for Masters finalists which takes place once a semester. Candidates attend internships in various areas of Sonae, contacting directly with business reality. It lasts for 4 or 5 months and its main purpose is to achieve creative solutions for the challenges posed by business, identifying and detecting talent among the participants. At the end, the solution is turned into a thesis or a final course project. In 2011, the 3rd and 4th Call for Solutions Universities were carried out, with the participation of 22 and 20 trainees, respectively. Call for You 2011 Call for You consists of a Sonae traineeship programme aimed at knowing and training young talents in the various business areas. It is aimed at those who have graduated from higher education recently (preferably 2nd Cycle – Masters), with no more than 2 years’ professional experience. This is a programme where there is room for the curiosity of those who wish to learn quickly and the generosity of those who make sharing a further mainstay of constant innovation. The selection of some of the “Call For You” applicants occurred via Rede Contacto (Contact Network). In 2011, 27 trainees had the opportunity to develop its competences and start professional activity under this Programme, with 18 subsequently joining the Sonae teams. Novas Oportunidades (New Opportunities) Programme In 2011, 958 employees frequented the Novas Oportunidades Programme, with 310 having obtained the respective skills’ certification. Knowledge-sharing at Sonae We periodically promote the carrying out of various fora with a view to sharing opinions, knowledge and the promotion of good practices amongst the various businesses, promoting innovation, sharing and the adoption of good practices. Sustainability Forum  Purpose: To share knowledge of Sustainability and the best practices, raising awareness at Sonae about matters with regard to which synergies need to be fostered and cohesion to deal with the various challenges in this area. This work group meets every 2 months and it comprises representatives from all Sonae companies. It sets out to make an active contribution to improving processes and procedures which are performance-enhancing in terms of Sustainability (e.g.: paper reduction; consumption optimisation and many other themes). FINOV – Forum dedicated to innovation Purpose: To stimulate and support a culture geared towards innovation at Sonae, capable of withstanding high levels of value creation Management Control and Planning Methodologies Forum Purpose: To promote and discuss the implementation of the best control methodologies throughout the company Legal Forum Purpose: To share experiences and knowledge between legal teams, promoting a broad discussion about fundamental legal topics and fostering a common approach to legal interpretations and procedures. Marketing and Communication Forum  Purpose: To coordinate negotiations with Media companies and promote the sharing of best practices in the Marketing area. Engineering, Construction and Safety Forum Purpose: To discuss the implementation of the best practices, particularly focusing on areas and matters related with health and safety Negotiation Forum Purpose: To analyse and discuss negotiation strategies, identify joint negotiation opportunities and share experiences and knowledge. In addition to the fora, we have three advisory groups, which meet frequently with a view to sharing information and coordination (internal training organization), including the ongoing review of existing organisational policies in these areas, and two committees aimed to serve as a platform for sharing knowledge and experiences: Advisory Groups Committees Human Resources Audit Risk Management Finance Information Technologies 47 Over the years, we have been promoting well-being and the development of knowledge and culture in partnership with other organisations by supporting various projects and actions. In 2011, we supported 3,051 organisations. In 2011, 10,134 thousand euros were invested in initiatives to support the community. Additionally, through our initiatives, customers donated directly about 726,000 euros to the community through projects such as “Missão Sorriso” (Smile Mission). Support to the Community 2011 (in thousands of euros) Corporate Centre Sonae MC Sonae SR Sonae RP € 636.7 € 6,309.1 € 2,188.6 € 146.1 Support to the Community € 10,860 Investment Sonae Sierra Sonaecom Management € 1,483.6 € 1.8 € 94.1 Volunteering Business volunteering is also an important component of Corporate Responsibility which we intend to increasingly develop with our employees. Volunteering enriches our employees and benefits the communities where it is carried out and we have thus continued to promote a culture involving an active participation in society, incentivising and developing new volunteering initiatives. In 2011 our employees dedicated over 6 thousand hours to volunteering actions with the involvement of around 1,350 participants. Our volunteers have supported over 125 institutions in Portugal in actions which have included technical and social support to third sector organisations such as the Agrupamento Escolar do Cerco (Cerco School Grouping), Acreditar, the Gil Foundation, the Sol Association, the SOS Villages, Casa do Caminho, Doctors of the World, the Lavoisier Association, the Humanities’ Association, the Banco Alimentar Contra a Fome (Food Bank) and many more. Cultural Support Casa da Música (House of Music) In 2011 we maintained the patronage agreement with Casa da Música with a view to cultural dissemination and the stimulation of innovation. Under the terms of this agreement support was lent to the initiatives “País-Tema” (Country-Theme), “Residências Artísticas” (Artist Residencies) and “3ª Fim de Tarde” (Tuesday Afternoon) which form part of the musical scheduling of Casa da Música. Serralves Concurrently with patronage support, we have joined forces with the Serralves Foundation to launch, for the first time, an Artistic Residence Programme, an innovative, pioneering project in Portugal based on cooperation between two different worlds: companies and cultural agents. The Sonae/Serralves Project has enabled the invited artists to undertake their work in Oporto and contact cultural agents, students and the community. This action, fitting in with our Corporate Responsibility policy, set out to promote creativity, innovation and approximation between the arts and the surrounding communities, namely through the discovery and development of young talents. Support to Young People We have a commitment to the education of younger people and the development of an enterprising society capable of generating wealth. The promotion of entrepreneurialism is thus one of the priorities we have set in the context of our social corporate responsibility policy and which has led us to foster the volunteering of our employees in the promotion of innovation, creativity and entrepreneurialism. Junior Achievement Portugal – “Learning to be enterprising” 2011 saw our fifth year of participation in Junior Achievement Portugal (JAP), a non-profit-making association committed to taking programmes to the schools which develop a liking for entrepreneurialism amongst children and young people. In the context of the partnership we have set up, employees provide training at schools in the fields of entrepreneurialism and personal finance, with a view to preparing young people to succeed in a global economy through entrepreneurship education, skills for employability and financial literacy. In the academic year 2010/2011 we had 209 employees involved who gave their time to help implement the programmes, having affected over 2,750 students. The programme with the most enrolments was Braço Direito (Right Arm), a programme in which students follow a professional for one day in his/her working environment, acquiring knowledge about culture, work ethics and the various career options available. In total, the Sonae volunteer group undertook 1,342 hours of volunteering in Junior Achievement Portugal actions. Since 2009, around 430 employees have joined this project, with an impact on approximately 7,300 students. All he volunteers considered the experience to be very positive, and would do it again, also stating that they will incentivise other people to be JAP volunteers. Some testimonies: Sonae’s support has been vital in terms of the sustainable growth of JAP, with a particular emphasis on the number of volunteers involved in the various actions nationwide. The connection to JAP and the commitment demonstrated to cover an increasing number of students has enabled us, over these five years’ work, to reach around 112,000 students in Portugal. We are deeply grateful for this partnership which will undoubtedly produce more enterprising young people. Junior Achievement Portugal In my opinion, volunteering forms part of our civic duty as members of a community, but rather than a sense of duty, what really drives me on is the opportunity to make the difference in the life of someone, putting at the disposal of others all my enthusiasm, experience and knowledge. It’s a great experience which is really rewarding! Filipa Oliveira (Sonae Sierra), elected the Volunteer of the Year by Junior Achievement for the academic year 2010/2011 49 In 2011 Sonae was elected the “Company of the Year” for having been the company which provided the greatest number of volunteers nationwide. “Porto de Futuro” This challenge was laid down by Oporto City Council to companies, with a view to supporting the management and development of 17 school groupings in the region by bringing the school and business communities closer together. During 2011 we continued to support this initiative at Agrupamento Escolar do Cerco (Cerco School Grouping) by means of: advisory support to general school management; logistical support (including works’ management and supplier control); support to underprivileged students; promotion of entrepreneurialism and creativity; professional/ongoing training; and rewarding the cases of excellence. By dint of its nature which is decisive for the development of a sustainable society, education is a task which must mobilise us all as there is no doubt that all the measures implemented today will be vital for the future of new generations. In the context of the Sonae/Cerco partnership, some of the projects supported by us were: Junior Achievement, with the presence of the Sonae volunteers to train in the context of the classroom, on different themes: “The Family”, “The Community”, “Economics for Success” and “The Company”. Tag rugby, sports promotion project and training of young people through the values of rugby – team work, responsibility and integrity. Mundo das Profissões (World of Professions), with study visits and promotion of employees of partner companies going to schools so that children have a sense of the different professions. Braço Direito (Right Arm), a volunteering action in the context of the Porto de Futuro Project in which Sonae employees host secondary school students from Agrupamento Escolar do Cerco (Cerco School Grouping) to follow their daily duties in a real work context for a day. Global Enterprise Project Sonae is one of the 19 founding companies of “The Global Enterprise Project” (GEP), an initiative which sets out to promote entrepreneurialism amongst young secondary school students throughout Europe. GEP involves the Junior Achievement-Young Enterprise Europe, an association specialized in training in entrepreneurialism, the European Round Table of Industrialists, an organisation which brings together the main European business leaders and the European Schoolnet, a network which brings together the Ministries of Education of 30 European countries with a view to innovating in education and training. During the three years of the initiative, 40 thousand young Europeans aged between 15 and 18 will have the chance to create and manage a real company, to discuss globalisation, strike up partnerships with colleagues from other countries, learn entrepreneur competences and apply the knowledge acquired. With the support of teachers and volunteers young people will be challenged to work with different professionals and be challenged to “learn on the job”. In 2011 we continued the strategy of dialogue and involvement with our stakeholders so as to ensure the satisfaction of their needs in the long-term and to identify the attendant risks and opportunities in due time. In this context, we believe that we have a role to play in terms of finding solutions, but we know that we need to work in partnership with our strategic stakeholders. As such, in addition to the publication of annual Sustainability Report, we are endowed with a series of mechanisms for periodically communicating with each stakeholder group. Websites Suggestions and complaints system CLIENTS Sonae's Ombudsman Stakeholders engagement survey Social climate studies News on the Internet In-house publications EMPLOYEES Sonae's Ombudsman Knowledge-sharing Fora Stakeholders engagement survey General Meetings Quarterly financial reports INVESTORS Stakeholders engagement survey Response to specific questionnaires Supplier portals Visits and audits Reciprocal training SUPPLIERS Stakeholders engagement survey Performance appraisal Relationship in the planning and projecting GOVERNMENTAL of new opportunities AND REGULATING ENTITIES Participation in various sectorial associations Partnerships with representative institutions COMMUNITY Community involvement projects Stakeholders engagement survey Conferences Presentations MEDIA Interviews Response to specific questions Written communications Meetings TENANTS* Training Stakeholders engagement survey Websites Suggestions and complaints systems VISITORS* Sierra's Ombudsman Stakeholders engagement survey * Specific stakeholders from shopping centres 51 Clients Complaints and Suggestions Management System As it is a priority for us to listen to and understand our clients, we are constantly concerned with and focused on meeting their needs. Our brands are permanently focused on orientation towards the client – who is increasingly demanding and better informed – so as to be able to anticipate his expectations and develop innovative solutions. In 2011, bearing testimony to our dedication and commitment to ongoing improvement, the food Retail area maintained International Certification of the Complaints’ Management System in accordance with NP EN 10002:2007, awarded by SGS* ICS – International Certification Services. It should be pointed out that Sonae MC was the first company in Europe to receive this Certification in 2010. Also in the Food Retail area, we published the Complaints and Suggestions’ Management Policy. This policy stands out for the implementation of a single customer approach method, the systematisation of the whole of the complaints’ management process, the provision of a base/structure for the analysis and ongoing revision of the complaints’ processing procedure and of the improvements made by setting objective and indicators and the monitoring of customer satisfaction. All these factors promote greater credibility with the client as regards the skill at resolving complaints in consistent, systematic and uniform fashion as well as motivating employees to fine-tune their skills in terms of customer contact. This policy sets out the suggestions and complaints management system objectives, to wit: To obtain the satisfaction of consumers at the time when they express their dissatisfaction and share their suggestions as a reason behind the success of the business; To ensure that the development of a complaints and suggestions’ management system is the upshot of an ongoing concern to comply with all the requirements, following careful procedures, so as to fit them in with their objectives; To ensure a more professionalised organisation which allows an improvement in the quality of the service rendered, ensuring the company has greater productivity and that Employees have greater satisfaction in the performance of their professional activity; To achieve closer relations with Clients with a view to establishing more relations built on confidence; The strict compliance with applicable regulations in all our fields of action. In 2011 Worten also officially received Certification of the Iberian Complaints’ Management System. In this way, a further step was ensured in the commitment to offer our customers quality service, to wit in the context of the way in which suggestions and complaints are dealt with. Sonae Ombudsman We pay special attention to all the contacts addressed to us. In this regard, we provide our employees, clients, suppliers and the general public with access to the Sonae Ombudsman which is intended to ensure appropriate follow-up to any complaints, claims or suggestions addressed to it. The Ombudsman will answer any contact addressed to our business areas (Sonae MC, Sonae SR, Sonae RP, Investment Management, Sonae Sierra, Sonaecom) as well as of Sonae Indústria and Sonae Capital, duly forwarding it and controlling the responses. The Sonae Ombudsman is directly answerable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sonae. Customer satisfaction In addition to the complaints and suggestions management system and the Sonae Ombudsman, with a view to improving our products and services, we undertake various customer satisfaction studies in line with the themes to be assessed (e.g.: image, quality of the product, customer service) and appraisal methodologies (e.g.: quarterly report, mystery client, online panels). Each of these studies has individualised results which are analysed in such a way as to ensure the best possible response to customer needs. * See Glossary In 2011 we undertook a study into corporate social responsibility3 with a view to establishing the environmental and social practices that the clients consider to be most important in the Retail area as well as measuring the popularity of the social initiatives undertaken whose main results we have highlighted: The products provided to clients with the least income are considered to be the most important in all brands, with the exception of Continente bom dia where the products provided to promote a healthy diet are highlighted. This practice is regarded as the second most important in the other brands. The most popular social initiatives promoted by Sonae MC and Sonae SR amongst clients are: “Missão Sorriso ”, “Troca de Lâmpadas”, “Causa Maior” and “Pilha de Livros” (Continente); “Campanha Arredonda” (Worten); “Nós” (Modalfa e Zippy) and sports’ events “Corrida da Mulher” and “Meia Maratona” (Sport Zone). The clients expressed interest in finding out more about the activities undertaken by the 8 brands in the context of environmental protection and support to the community. Annual stakeholders’ dialogue process In order to identify stakeholders’ expectations and consequently set sustainability priorities and objectives, in 2011 we undertook the annual stakeholders’ dialogue process. This consultation allowed the identification of the main material themes and opportunities for improvement which allow a direct connection to be created between the sustainability challenges which are faced and the business strategy. The selection of stakeholders to dialogue was based on the identification of strategic stakeholders in the Retail area. This being the case, a sample of 171 stakeholders was identified, belonging to the following stakeholder groups: Regulating and government Investors/ authorities and Community Suppliers Employees Analysts municipalities The process ran off by means of a questionnaire via an online platform for suppliers and employees and via a phone conference for the rest, feedback was obtained from five stakeholder groups, totalling 89 replies. The questionnaire was structured into four main sections with the following main conclusions: Sustainability Performance Reputation and Image he majority of the sample of stakeholders sounded out The stakeholders sounded out believe that Sonae believes that Sonae has a clear vision of its economic, has a Very Good performance as regards environmental and social responsibilities. the “optimisation of consumption and recycling* of water and water risk assessment in the supply chain”. Expectations and opinion of Stakeholders Relevant themes Sustainability Report Those themes with the greatest percentage The majority of the stakeholders sounded out of references by the stakeholders were the had access to the Sustainability Report 2010 “Sustainability strategy and future committments”; by e-mail and at the Sonae web site. “Human capital development”; “Environmental policy/ Environmental management systems”. Of the sample of stakeholders who read the report (75%), either in part or in full, 68% The themes “Policies and practices for the preferential classified the information provided by Sonae selection of national suppliers”, “Forms of involvement in the Sustainability Report 2010 as ‘Good with a larger number of stakeholders” and or Very Good and 16% as Sufficient . “Development of human capital” were themes for which improvement opportunities were identified by the groups of stakeholders. 3  10 surveys were conducted on customers: Continente (507), Continente modelo (247), Continente bom dia (92), Worten (382), Vobis (45), Sport Zone (231), Modalfa (215) 6 and Zippy (105). The collected sample is predominantly female, between 25-44 years old and belonging to the Lower Middle Class. * See Glossary 53 Percentage of references by theme Sustainability Strategy 60% and future commitments Human capital development 49% Environmental policy/ Environmental 40% Management Systems Ethics and Conduct 37% Client relationship management (satisfaction, management of complaints…) 32% Policies and practices for the preferential 29% selection of national suppliers. Health and nutrition 26% (healthy diet products, consumer awareness…) Attracting and holding onto talent 25% Economic opportunities and risks 25% Forms of involvement 23% with stakeholders (suppliers, employees…) Corporate Governance 23% Provision of products with less 14% environmental impact Energy efficiency, 12% CO2 emissions and use of energy alternatives. Crisis and risk management/assessment 12% Standards for suppliers (social, environmental etc…) 9% Waste separation, reuse and recycling 9% Environmental guidelines for selecting sources 8% of raw materials (agricultural products, fish...) Transport of products and use of efficient vehicles 8% Social inclusion practices and policies (sale of products to people living in economically 6% disadvantaged conditions or isolated locations) Citizenship and philanthropy (investments in the community through initiatives as patronage, 6% sponsorship, volunteering or otherwise support.) Packaging use management and materials recovery 6% initiatives, recycling batteries, collection of used appliances... Optimization of water consumption and recycling 6% and risk assessment in the water supply chain. Sale of products and services to market segments 5% or minorities (feed for vegetarians) Initiatives to raise awareness 5% for visitors, employees and Community Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs)… 3% Disabled inclusion policy 2% Occupational health and safety 2% The graphic above illustrates that the following themes were selected most by the stakeholders: Themes Corresponding Subchapter/Chapter Sustainability Strategy 3.1 Retail and future commitments 3.1.8 Commitments and forthcoming steps in Retail Human capital development 2.3 Human Capital 3.1.2 Human capital development Environmental Policy/ Management 3.1.3 Environmental Responsibility in Retail Systems Environmental Ethics and Conduct 2.3.2 Internal culture Customer relationship management 2.5 Involvement with Stakeholders Policies and practices for the preferential 3.1.5 Sustainability on the supplier chain in Retail selection of national suppliers Health and Nutrition 3.1.4 Health and Nutrition Attracting and holding on to talent 2.3.3 Attracting and Holding on to Talent 3.1.2 Human capital development Economic opportunities and risks 2.2 Risk Management Forms of involvement with Stakeholders 2.5 Involvement with Stakeholders Corporate Governance 2.1 Governance Model 55 “Against an adverse economic backdrop Sonae has stood by its clients and those who need it most, helping to relieve the difficulties facing families. We have a firm commitment to sustainable development and this also involves providing our clients with the best products at the lowest prices, particularly in scenarios such as that which we went through in 2011.” Luís Moutinho, CEO of Sonae MC “2011 proved to be a period of consolidation of the internationalization strategy of Sonae with the entry onto new dynamic markets which are interesting to our brands and where our formats are making their mark as they stand out and where consumers recognise our plus points and we expect to keep up a good rate of openings.” Miguel Mota Freitas, CEO of Sonae SR In 2011 we strengthened our position as leaders on the food and specialized Retail market in Portugal. In the case of Sonae MC, this reinforcement was based on a rapid, effective adaptation of the offer to the alterations in consumer habits in Portugal whilst in the case of Sonae SR, the strategy to explore franchising and joint-ventures opportunities was continued as a way of speeding up growth internationally. Sonae RP continued its activity of actively managing the Retail real estate assets of Sonae with a view to increasing the Company’s ability to achieve its growth objectives. In 2011 the Retail business increased the number of stores to a total of 1.016, corresponding to a total sales’ area of around 1 million m2. Sonae MC Sonae SR 454 stores 562 stores in Portugal, 22 of which under a franchising regime in Portugal 423 thousand m2 of sales' area 133 stores abroad 564 thousand m2 of sales' area 21 franchising units* * 11 in Portugal; 5 in Saudi Arabia; 3 in Spain; 1 in Kazakhstan and 1 in Egypt In 2011 Sonae MC managed to strengthen The joint sales its leading position on the food of our retail units market in Portugal by around – Sonae MC and Sonae SR – 1p.p of share, with increased by 0.3p.p a 2p.p increase in sales in 2011 to 3,327 million euros. to 4,562 milllon euros. Sonae SR achieved 1,235 million The contribution of the own euros and it is worth stressing brands' portfolio and first the 43% growth in sales prices for sale continued on international markets, to increase, accounting with sales in Spain alraedy for around 30p.p accounting for 25% in the relevant categories of total sales of the unit, 5p.p during 2011. above the amount recorded in 2010. Retail business areas’ turnover (in millions of euros) 2011 Sonae 4,562 Sonae MC 3,327 Sonae SR 1,235 Sonae RP 119 Investment Management 130 59 The Internal Auditing Department aims to make an effective contribution to the achievement of the organisation’s objectives by carrying out audits on those processes which are most critical and relevant to the business, the implementation of audits to verify compliance with internal procedures and legislation, the carrying out of food safety audits and the auditing of those systems which support the activities of the various areas. Organisation of the Internal Auditing Department Sonae's Executive Audit CAF Committee Committee Internal Audit Process auditing Food Safety Information and compliance Audit Systems Audit The Internal Auditing Department is made up of 30 employees and it carries out its activity in the companies Sonae MC, Sonae SR, Sonae RP and the Corporate Centre. The annual activity plan for Auditing duties has as its main inputs the strategic lines of the various businesses, the biggest risk areas and the demands of the various Management levels. Internal Auditing reports regularly to the Audit Committee and to the non-statutory body the CAF (Audit and Finance Committee). There is also a body to coordinate internal audit activity of Internal Audit in Retail, the Audit Committee, to which it makes a quarterly report. Main responsibilities of the Internal Auditing Department: To audit the most critical and relevant processes of the businesses; To audit compliance with legislation and procedures; To audit the information systems; To audit compliance with legislation and procedures in the food safety area; To coordinate Retail auditing activity at Sonae companies and; To support the Audit Committee in operational terms. International certification programmes: As regards the carrying out of Internal Auditing duties in 2011, we are still consistently sponsoring those employees who apply for international certification in various programmes. In the Retail area, Sonae is one of the organisations which has the largest number of employees certified in internal auditing in Portugal. Furthermore, it has teams certified in the auditing information systems auditing and food safety auditing. In 2012, Sonae will continue to sponsor this important programme for the training, development and international certification of its auditing employees in accordance with the best international practices. Main actions implemented in 2011 Process Auditing and Compliance In 2011, 450 audits were carried out to verify compliance with legislation and internal procedures at Sonae MC and Sonae SR in the fields or Procurement, Sales, Brochure Product Stock Breaks and Inventories. The main aims of these audits are the reduction of fraud risks and breaches of rules and procedures, a reduction in financial losses and verification of the control level at the Organisation, as well as an increase in the customer satisfaction level and to contribute to the maintenance of the image and reputation of the company. Audits were also carried out on a series of critical processes at Sonae MC, at Sonae SR and at the Corporate Centre with the aims of pinpointing the main associated risks, the potential impacts on business and the controls which need to be implemented or improved so as to ensure the mitigation of said risks. In addition, we carry out a series of key indicators monitoring measures in critical business areas (in 2011, around 500 audits were carried out on 30 indicators). Information Systems Audit During the course of 2011, 16 audits were carried out on the information systems which support the Retail critical processes with a view to identifying and correcting any potential vulnerabilities which may have a negative impact on the business and on information security. Food Safety Audit Worthy of special note is the implementation and consolidation of a food safety audit programme on stores, cafeterias, depots and manufacturing centres, highlighting the surveying and reporting of the main conclusions in terms of the company and orientation towards the taking of corrective actions. This audit programme sets out to systematically verify compliance with the legal standards and internal rules regarding food safety. In 2011, around 300 food safety audits were carried out. 61 At the end of 2011 the Retail area team was made up of 36,713 employees whereof 90.7% are carrying out duties in Portugal, 7.75% in Spain, 1.44% in Brazil, 0.1% in China and 0.05% in Turkey. Just like in the previous year, of the set of top managers only 1 is not in his country of origin. This reality reflects Retail recruitment policy in terms of operational duties which is based on recruiting locally, thereby contributing the employability of those regions where the organisation is to be found. Main Retail area indicators 67% of employees 75% of employees have 71% perform duties are female indefinite term contract full time and 33% male and 25% definite term and 29% part time 32% 59% of employees 1,315,145 hours of new admissions aged under 35 of training 36 hours of training 56,455 training per employee actions Professional development In 2011, in addition to the performance appraisal process applicable to 100% of Retail employees, a further edition of Upward Feedback was staged. This is a 180º appraisal tool whereby employees give feedback to their Direct Superiors with regard to their action as team managers in a series of relevant areas: Work organisation, Motivation and Development and Communication. Upward Feedback is a personal and professional development tool which intends to serve as an anchor for an ongoing process of change and individual growth. Sonae Retail School In 2011, the Sonae Retail School provided over 1.2 million hours of training out of a total of 56,455 actions, making the team more active in the identification of new challenges and improvement areas and it rapidly designed programmes to disseminate the best practices transversally to the organisation. Investment in people is our starting point. In this regard, our programmes are designed in conjunction with national and international reference partners. We believe that the content, methodologies and resources which we supply are amongst the best on the market. We encourage internal training, currently having 2,295 internal trainers available. Sonae Retail School Sonae Retail School consists of a series of schools and academies with training processes structured into sustained functional profiles, illustrating the alignment with the business, bearing in mind the strategic lines defined in the Retail area. 63 Health and Safety at Workplace Health and Safety at Work (HSW) is an important aspect for sustainable development and corporate social responsibility, thereby constituting an essential mainstay, as it allows the optimisation of all the potential of our human resources, a differentiating aspect and the engine behind all our success, strengthening the respect for Employees, their families and society as a whole. Our concern with Safety at Work is reflected by a strong commitment to the adoption of a preventive programme which includes the carrying out of audits on workplaces and emergency drills, the existence of an HSW training programme and the carrying out of raising awareness actions with a view to reducing accident and absenteeism rates. We are also committed to Medicine at Work based on the appraisal of occupational risks and the consequent evaluation of health and well-being associated with the duties and activities of workers. We develop miscellaneous internal campaigns to raise the awareness of everyone about prevention in the Health area and the adoption of healthy lifestyles. Sonae has set April 28th, the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, as a day of reflection and the starting point to strengthen all the proactive – attitudes which allow the achievement of the main objectives: “Zero Accidents” and “Zero occupational illnesses”. As a way of commemorating this day, we give all employees a gift commemorating Health and Safety at the Workplace. Main Health and Safety at the Workplace (HSW) Indicators 78,893 participants in raising awareness and training actions in the context of Health and Safety at the Workplace (HSW) with a total of 105,000 hours of training; Existence of an HSW course catalogue with 75 different courses; HSW communication campaigns carried out during the course of the year have involved the active participation of a total of 236,144 employees4; Over 100 health professionals; Carrying out of 30,000 medical examinations; Safety inspections and audits at 903 units; 47,178 employees consulted in the context of Health and Safety at the Workplace Implementing of 256 emergency/evacuation drills. Active partnership with the Authority for Working Conditions (National Prevention and Safety Day and European Working Conditions Week) 75 HSW 78,893 participants training in HSW actions training actions 12 advisory 236,144 participants actions in advisory actions 4 Some of the advice actions involved employees and clients. Main distinctions in terms of hygiene, safety and health at the Retail area in 2011: We obtained recognition at the European Good Practice Awards, awards given by the European Agency for Safety and Health at the Work which distinguish the best practices in health and safety at organisations. The European Good distinction results from the set of good practices followed by Sonae, Practice Awards namely of the ongoing actions with a view to reducing the risk of accident in all the processes which involve maintenance and repair works. The Continente store in Guia (Algarveshopping) was rewarded for good practices in Health and Safety at the Workplace. The raising awareness action about the “Safety, a matter of attitude “theme, undertaken by Personae – this store, was the basis for the awarding of this prize. Tenant Award´s This award is part of the initiative launched by Sonae Sierra to promote Health and Safety at its shopping centres worldwide and they seek to reward those storekeepers with the best practices in Health and Safety. Continente in Cascais obtained renewal of the Certification in the Health, Safety and Hygiene at the Workplace Management System in accordance Certification with the Standard OHSAS* 18001/NP 4397:2001. This certification of Continente in Cascais recognises the quality of the Health, Safety and Hygiene at the Workplace Management System and the good practices implemented by the parent company in this area. In 2011 in the Retail area we continued our Environmental Certifications’ programme in accordance with the International Standard ISO* 14001, having attained 4 new environmental certifications: Continente Modelo in Tomar; Continente Bom Dia in Massarelos; Worten ArrabidaShopping; Worten in Aveiro; Concurrently, Corporate Environmental Certification for the Retail area was maintained, having also attained the renewal/maintenance of the 17 Environmental Certifications for installations achieved in previous years – 11 food stores (3 Continente; 7 Continente modelo; 1 Continente bom dia), 2 specialized retail stores (2 Worten), 3 depots and 1 manufacturing centre (Meat Processing Centre – Carnes Continente). The series of certifications of installations obtained allows us to have at our disposal at least one certified store at each Operations’ Department of the food stores, the same being the case with regard to the Worten stores located in Portuguese territory. This set of certified installations, which covers all the types of installations run by Sonae’s Retail area, to wit, food and non-food stores, depots and manufacturing centres, demonstrates the Company’s environmental management capabilities. In addition, in 2011, Building Research Establishment (BRE*) officially approved the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM*) Certification report of the Azambuja Eco-Industrial Park (Certification level: GOOD). In this way the buildings of this logistics’ pool – where the Plaza 1 and Plaza 2 warehouses are installed – have become the first buildings endowed with BREEAM Certification in Portugal and the first industrial buildings to obtain this certification in the Iberian Peninsula. * See Glossary 65 Climate Change* Our activity impacts climate change and there is a concern and an endeavour is made to mitigate such change. In the context of the Retail area these impacts may be direct, resulting from fuel* consumption in the transport of goods – diesel is the fuel used by the main fleet – and indirecti.e.associated with energy consumption at stores and warehouses. This is why we are concerned with obtaining a contracted fleet which is fuel efficient in accordance with Euro* standards. A computer tool is being applied to optimise the supply routes of the stores and the cargo volumes transported. In the context of the regulatory framework for electrical micro and minigeneration, photovoltaic energy production plants have been installed at some of our stores (39 production plants and 19 minigeneration plants) and one of the things we are committed to is the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. In view of the fact that we consider the involvement of our stakeholders essential (employees, clients, suppliers), we invest in the dissemination of information and raising awareness about the questions related with emissions and energy consumption through campaigns, promoting day-to-day management and efficiency. In terms of the indirect impact through our consumers, opportunities were identified which may alter their behaviour, mainly in the consumption of electronic and electrical products. The campaigns carried out promote the acquisition of new, more efficient products. Finally, we are also aware that climate changes may affect the agricultural production level which may have consequences in terms of the availability and quality of food goods and other products of organic origin. The quantification of these impacts is difficult meaning that we remain attentive and position ourselves in proactive fashion to minimise potential impacts on the Retail business. Energy and Emissions Energy consumption is one of the main environmental impacts deriving from the Retail activity. The main form of energy we consume is electricity which represents around 78% of total energy consumed by the Retail area, followed by fuel consumption (essentially, gasoil associated with transport by the contracted fleet). Total energy consumption, in 2011, corresponded to 2,274,098 GJ. Distribution of energy consumption (GJ) Diesel consumption at stores (GJ) Propane gas consumption (GJ) 4,850 1,457 0.21% 0.06% Natural gas consumption (GJ) Diesel consumption by goods’ haulage 17,203 vehicles (GJ) 0.76% 401,700 17.66% Diesel consumption by employee vehicles (GJ) 74,802 3.29% Electricity consumption (GJ) 1,773,315 Gasoline consumption 77.98% by employee vehicles (GJ) 772 0.03% * See Glossary As regards electricity consumption, in 2011, this stood at 492.6 GWh*, corresponding to 1,773,315 GJ and emission of 181,977 tonnes of CO2e . Evolution of electricity consumption (GJ) Electricity consumption 2,000,000 1,773,315 1,637,330 1,663,895 Electricity consumption(GJ) 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 0 2009 2010 2011 Compared with the previous year, there was an increase in electrical energy consumption of 6.6%, the reflection of a series of concurrent factors: Increase in the number of installations, with special focus on Specialized Retail stores; Accounting for annual electricity consumption of the most recent stores, opened at the end of last year, and these partially contributed to the total consumption of electricity in 2010; Extension of opening hours to Sundays and Bank Holidays of Continente hypermarkets. Notwithstanding, bearing in mind the comparable universes at the series of food installations and depots, which represent 77% of the electrical energy consumed by the Retail business, a 1.9% reduction was recorded. This performance, which we regard as very positive – since it counters the trend towards the growth in energy consumption deriving from the growing cold production needs for food upkeep as well as from the comfort conditions thermally and in terms of lighting, of our clients – results from the consolidation of a vast set of measures systematically implemented in previous years, as well as the contribution of new measures implemented during the course of 2011 whereof we highlight: The replacement of normal T8 and T5 bulbs with T8 and T5 “Eco” bulbs; The optimisation of lighting levels in different Store areas; The installation of new temperature control technology in the cooling units (E-Cube), with a direct impact on production needs/the supply of refrigeration to these units. The specific consumption of electrical energy by sales’ area which, in 2011, stood at 0.56 GWh /1000 m2, remaining at a level identical to that of previous years, denoted, even so, a slight increase deriving from the influence of the consolidation of annual consumption of a set of stores with very reduced sales’ areas, to wit from the brands Well´s and Bom Bocado. Evolution of electricity consumption by sales’ areas Electricity consumption by sales' areas Electricity consumption (GWh/1000m2) 0.60 0.54 0.56 0.53 0.50 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.10 0.00 2009 2010 2011 * See Glossary 67 Also in the field of electrical energy, 2011 was also characterised by an increase in the autonomous production of energy deriving from renewable sources, as well as by an increase in the installed production capacities. In actual fact, the 39 Production Plants under a microgeneration system (37 photovoltaic and 2 aerogenerators) installed along previous years, produced and injected into the National Network 194.6 MWh*, corresponding to 42% growth on the production recorded in 2010 and resulting in avoided emission of 91.5 tonnes of CO2e. Evolution of electricity produced through renewable energy source Evolution of electricity produced through renewable energy source 250.0 Electricity produced (MWh) 194.6 200.0 150.0 136.9 100.0 51.7 50.0 0.0 2009 2010 2011 Furthermore, we have strengthened our production capacities, with the installation in the last two months of 2011 of nineteen of 19 kWp* photovoltaic plants under a minigeneration system which results in total installed power of around 500 kWp. As regards global Greenhouse Gas (GHG)* Emissions associated with the total consumption of energy by Retail which includes electricity (stores, depots, offices and manufacturing centres) and fuels used at Stores and in the transport of goods and employees, these stood at 218,708 tonnes of CO2e, representing an increase of around 10% on 2010. This increase is in the main related with the emissions associated with electricity consumption which, in 2011, represented 181,977 tonnes of CO2e. Also in the context of the calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, the gasoil and petrol emission factors used in 2010 were updated. Evolution of total emissions of CO2e (tonnes of CO2e) Total emissions 250,000 218,708 209,017 199,369 200,000 Emissions (t CO2e) 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 2009 2010 2011 In 2011 carbonic intensity recorded an increase of 4 tonnes of CO2e and per million euros of turnover. This increase was contributed to by the increase in electricity consumption in the Retail area and an increase in the respective emission factor which, in the current year, recorded the value of 0.369 kg CO2/kWh* (7% greater than the electricity emission factor in 2010). The updating of conversion factors for propane gas, diesel and gasoline also influence, though on a lesser scale, the increase in carbonic intensity, compared with 2010. * See Glossary Evolution in carbonic intensity (tonnes of CO2e/Millions of euros of Turnover)5 60 55 50 45 41 t CO2e/ M€ of turnover 40 30 20 10 0 2009 2010 2011 Distribution of emissions in 2011 (t CO2e) Emissions associated with propane gas consumption t CO2 e) <0.1% Emissions associated with gasoil Emissions associated consumption with gasoil consumption by stores (t CO2 e) by goods’ haulage 0.2% vehicles (t CO2 e) Emissions associated 13.6% with natural gas Emissions associated consumption (t CO2 e) with gasoil consumption 0.4% by employee vehicles (t CO2 e) 2.5% Emissions associated with petrol consumption by employee vehicles (t CO2 e) <0.1% Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2 e) 83.2% 5 For calculation purposes, the turnover of Sonae MC, Sonae SR, Sonae RP and Investment Management was considered. 69 Transport and logistics In 2011, the contracted fleet travelled around 37 million kilometres, representing an emission of 29,726 tonnes of CO2e, reflecting a reduction of around 9% compared with the previous year. The reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions is directly influenced by the updating of the gasoil emission factor in 2011. 2009 2010 2011 Contracted fleet emissions 28,751 32,754 29,726 (t CO2e) We have maintained our requirements with the haulage companies with a view to improving the vehicle pool put at the service of the contracted fleet, wholly managed by our logistics’ area. At the end of 2011, 87% of the vehicles put at the service of the contracted fleet complied, at least, with Standard Euro 4, representing year-on-year growth of 5p.p. As illustrated by the two specific activity indicators, to wit, by the number of boxes transported per kilometre travelled and the equivalent emission of CO2e by box transported, the aim to improve logistical efficiency was wholly achieved . There was an 11% reduction in CO2 emissions per 1000 boxes transported and a 3% increase in the number of boxes transported per km travelled. Evolution in indicators relating to transport and logistics Distance travelled No. of boxes transported/km travelled 37,418 40,000 34,712 36,951 8.0 6.5 6.7 6.4 Distance (thousand km) Nr. of boxes transported/ km 30,000 6.0 20,000 4.0 10,000 2.0 0 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 kg CO2e/1000 boxes transported 135 150 129 120 Emissions/1000 boxes 100 (kg CO2e/1000 boxes) 50 0 2009 2010 2011 Refrigerant gases* In 2011, we continued with the programme defined to replace cooling plants defined previously, with a view to improving their efficiency and, simultaneously, reducing the use of refrigerant gases which are potentially more harmful to the environment. Hence, various plants with R 427a and a plant with R22 were replaced by plants using R404. Evolution in the type of coolant fluids used at the cold production plants Type of coolant fluids used at the plants 78% 79% 80% 69% 70% 60% Fluid (%) 50% 40% R 404 30% 17% R427a 20% 9% 10% 10% 9% 10% 10% 5% 2% 2% R22 0% Glicol 2009 2010 2011 Water consumption In 2011, there was total drinking water consumption at Continente hypermarkets and supermarkets of 724,414 m3, representing a 4,4% reduction on the total consumption observed in 2010 (the water consumption observed in 2010 stood at 757,734 m3). As regards the comparable store universe, a 5.8% year-on-year reduction was observed. In turn, in 2011, specific consumption by sales area stood at 1.40 m3/m2, representing a 4.1% reduction compared to 2010. Evolution of the public water supply consumption by sales’ area (m3/m2) Evolution of the public water supply consumption by sales' area (m3/m2) 2.00 Water consumption (m3/m2) 1.58 1.46 1.40 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.00 2009 2010 2011 The consistent improvement in performance with regard to water consumption which has occurred, year after year, at food stores derives not only from strict monitoring, but also from the ongoing implementation of wastage control measures, using more efficient equipment and the behavioural measures of the store teams and also the speed of resolving accidental leakages. The water consumed is essentially deriving from the public system, though there are boreholes at some stores whose water is used for the irrigation and washing of outdoor paving. We still don’t have a systematic means for controlling the consumption associated with the use of underground water. * See Glossary 71 As regards waste water treatment, the majority of liquid effluent generated at our installations is discharged at public collectors with the exception of 3 stores where this condition does not occur owing to an absence of public infrastructures. In order to ensure that the effluents meet the applicable legislation, these stores are endowed with waste water treatment plants which have biological treatment (secondary treatment). We do not have measurements of the quantity of effluents discharged, though we estimate that, in 2011, the stores have generated around 579.531m3 of liquid effluents (a 5% reduction on 2010), applying the factor used in engineering for these cases which assumes that 80% of consumed water results in liquid effluents. Waste Waste management in the Retail area encompasses not only the waste produced in the context of its activity but also the waste dumped by some clients at our stores, a consequence of the promotion which we have carried out for responsible environmental citizenship. Hence, in 2011, the waste managed by the Retail area attained 66,848 tonnes, up 1.5% on the previous year. Of this total, only 3% corresponds to hazardous waste. In line with previous years, paper/cardboard waste represents 48% and the solid urban waste (SUW*) represents 37% of the total waste managed, corresponding to the largest fractions of the different waste types managed by the Retail area. Waste managed/type in 2011 (t) Waste managed by type (t) Others 708 1% SUW 24,793 37% Cardboard 31,741 48% Wood 867 1% Plastic WEEE* 3,292 5,446 5% 8% In terms of the specific flows of waste and compared with the previous year we would highlight: 129% increase in the collection of the coffee capsules (Worten stores), which in 2011 stood at 188 tonnes; the 50% increase in the collection of cork stoppers (Continente stores) which attained 37 tonnes; the 10% increase in the collection of WEEE – Waste Electrical and electronic equipment (Worten and Continente stores), having collected 5,446 tonnes. * See Glossary 2011 was also marked by the onset of widespread collection of used cooking oil to customers in around 100 stores Continente, where the logistical and security conditions so allow. As a result of this process there was a very significant increase in the quantity of such waste, which amounted in 2011 to 9.8 tonnes, showing a growth of 240% compared to 2010. As a whole, the waste recovery rate attained 77.3 % in 2011, having registered a 0.4 p.p. increase on 2010. The lower growth in the value of this indicator compared with previous years reflects the efforts made both by the company and by our suppliers to reduce the packaging materials, with impacts on the quantities of cardboard and plastic waste managed by our stores. The main destinations of our waste are recycling*, landfill, energy recovery and organic recovery, highlighting, compared with 2010, a 20% increase in sending waste off for organic recovery. Final destination of waste 70% 63.3% 62.9% 62.2% 2009 60% 50% 2010 40% 2011 30% 24.8% 23.1% 22.7% 20% 8.7% 8.5% 8.3% 10% 4.3% 5.2% 6.1% 0% Recycling Organic Energy Landfill recovery recovery To mark the International Year of Forests, Continente, in partnership with Quercus, launched the initiative “Rolhas que dão folhas” (“Corks make sheets”). This project, in progress until April 2012, has the aim of raising the awareness of school, family and friends’ communities for the recycling of cork stoppers and for the support of reforesting in Portugal. The corks collected are sent off for recycling and the amount raised will allow Quercus to carry out reforesting actions through the Green Cork project. This project sets out to promote the reforesting and the cork as ecological material. Promotion of healthy food In the context of the commitments assumed and the objectives of the European strategy for illness prevention and health promotion, we have been adopting a series of educational initiatives with a view to promoting the adoption of healthy lifestyles and keeping consumers informed, ensuring them the clarifications required so they can make nutritionally balanced choices. In terms of the provision of products, in 2011 we saw to the optimisation of the nutritional profile of the products of certain categories of the Continente brand, reducing the contents of at least one of the following nutrients: fatness, saturated fat, sugar and salt. Concurrently, we maintained our product ranges which promote a healthy diet: “Equilíbrio” (Balance) range, a healthier alternative for equivalent products to be found on the market. “Área Viva” (Living Area) range which includes products intended to meet the specific nutritional needs and other food standards such as, for example, vegetarianism. 73 As regards the offer of Private Label products in the ”Equilíbrio” and ”Biológico” ranges, there was a growth in both ranges, in the main as regards the offer of products of the “Equilíbrio” range. We put on sale 199 items in Continente Equilíbrio and 56 in Continente Bio, spread amongst the various commercial departments. 2010 2011 Continente Equilíbrio 123 199 +62% Continente Bio 49 56 +14% In terms of the labelling of products using the “Nutritional Traffic Light” system, we provide consumers with simplified information about the nutritional characteristics of Continente brand food products. Seeking to extend the applicability of this system, we provide a converter card with reference values of the nutrients considered in the Nutritional Traffic Light, thereby allowing a comparison with the other products available at the store. The “Nutritional Traffic Light” was developed in accordance with the criteria defined in the Front of Pack Traffic Light Signpost Labelling of the Food Standards Agency. This system is to be found on the front of Continente product packaging. Each circle colour corresponds to a different concentration of the nutrients present in food. If a nutrient is green, this means that its concentration in the food is low, thereby constituting a healthier option. If it is orange, its concentration is average, though it is still a good option, and if it is red its concentration is high, having to be consumed occasionally or in lesser quantities. To complement this system the corresponding percentages were associated to the daily reference values (DRV*) for these nutrients. Finally, we also act in terms of raising awareness and information to the population, consumers and employees, having undertaken the following initiatives in 2011; Carrying out of clarification sessions about food and healthy lifestyles at various schools, from the north to the south of the country, including themes like “Nutritional Traffic Light” to aid the clarification about the nutritional labelling and the campaign to promote the consumption of fruit and vegetables “Prova dos 5” (The 5 Test). Provision, at various Continente stores, of a free nutritional advice service, ensured by qualified nutritionists/ dieticians who provide clarifications to facilitate daily choices in terms of healthy diet. Promotion of the “Food Fortnight” initiative during October which takes place at the Continente stores from the north to the south of the country and includes activities such as the carrying out of consultations and blood pressure screening, body mass index, fat mass index and also weight, making speeches about healthy diet and fruit and vegetable tasting and other activities which incentivise the consumption of fruit and vegetables. Internal raising awareness actions through the making of speeches about diet, health and nutritional screening undertaken in partnership with Medicine at Work. Promotion of physical activity in the communities where we operate, to wit through the rehabilitation of urban spaces in the open air intended to practice physical exercise as a family (Continente Parks and HiperNatura Gardens), as well as the donation of sports’ equipment to schools. * See Glossary Advertising aimed at childrens When we advertise products aimed at children on the various media – TV, internet and the written Press – in campaigns whose content is specifically aimed at the under-12’s and whenever over 50% of the audience thereof is actually made up of children from this age bracket, we refrain from advertising food products with nutrients which show high values of fat, saturated fat, sugar or salt (in other words, Continente products or others which correspond to the nutrients marked in red in accordance with the “National Traffic Light” system”). In addition, we do not carry out commercial communication related with food products at first cycle schools, unless specifically requested or agreed with the school, with this being for educational purposes. Hiper Saudável (Hyperhealthy) Project In 2011 we went ahead with the Hiper Saudável project which includes the following activities. Nutritional advice in store In 2011, we continued to advise the Portuguese to have a healthier diet through the team of nutritionists at Continente Stores which was extended to three nutritionists/dieticians, with the space in store having been uniformised. Under the terms of this activity we have already advised over 19,000 clients. Relaunch of the nutrition microsite The microsite – www.hipersaudavel.continente.pt – provides miscellaneous information about health, diet and healthy lifestyles. We have started the option of making on-line appointments for nutritional advice and actions with schools. Launch of the Hyper Healthy Movement The Hyper Healthy Movement is an initiative which sets out to promote an improvement in the dietary habits of Portuguese families and motivate them to have a more active lifestyle through different platforms: Minuto em TV , a specific site of the www.movimentohipersaudavel.continente.pt movement and the Facebook page of the movement. 3rd edition of the Hiper Saudável Fortnight In 2011 we maintained the focus on children through an invitation to various schools to be present at our stores where we were able to liven up various educational games. We also carried out screening and nutritional advice as well as fruit and vegetable tasting. Drawing up of contents for Magazine Every month the nutrition team draws up a text about healthy diet and proceeds to choose a list of healthy products commercialised at our Stores. 75 Fruit distribution on the Algarve Beaches 3rd edition of the Hiper Saudável Fortnight In 2011 we maintained the focus on children through an invitation to various schools to be present at our stores where we were able to liven up various educational games. We also carried out screening and nutritional advice as well as fruit and vegetable tasting. Drawing up of contents for Magazine Every month the nutrition team draws up a text about healthy diet and proceeds to choose a list of healthy products commercialised at our Stores. Drawing up of contents for Magazine Every month the nutrition team draws up a text about healthy diet and proceeds to choose a list of healthy products commercialised at our Stores. Fruit distribution on the Algarve Beaches In August 2011 Hyper Healthy was on various beaches of the Algarve promoting the consumption of fruit by giving away nectarines and peaches (15,000 pieces of fruit). The prime aim of this initiative was the promotion and raising awareness of the importance of consumption of at least five pieces of fruit or vegetables per day as recommended by the World Health Organisation and the Continente campaign “Prova dos 5”. Fruit distribution on the Algarve Beaches In August 2011 Hyper Healthy was on various beaches of the Algarve promoting the consumption of fruit by giving away nectarines and peaches (15,000 pieces of fruit). The prime aim of this initiative was the promotion and raising awareness of the importance of consumption of at least five pieces of fruit or vegetables per day as recommended by the World Health Organisation and the Continente campaign “Prova dos 5”. Workshops for clients We started various cycles of workshops for clients about the themes: Healthy summer; Child/youth diet; Edible Seeds; Buying Healthy; Healthy Diet at an adult age and Celiac Disease Workshops for clients We started various cycles of workshops for clients about the themes: Healthy summer; Child/youth diet; Expansion of gluten-free products Edible Seeds; Buying Healthy; Healthy Diet at an adult age and Celiac Disease In 2011 we proceeded with the insertion of the Portuguese Celiac Association. At present we have over 20 products marketed under this logo and other products have already been approved by this Association. The Private Label product range has continued to use the “A healthy choice” logo of the Portuguese Cardiology Foundation. Expansion of gluten-free products In 2011 we proceeded with the insertion of the Portuguese Celiac Association. At present we have over 20 products marketed under this logo and other products have already been approved by this Association. The Private Label product range has continued to use the “A healthy choice” logo of the Portuguese Optimisation Cardiology of Nutritional Profile Foundation. In 2011 we continued to reduce sugar, fat and salt levels in some Private Label products, to wit: 8 tonnes per year of sugar in various yoghourts; 1.7 tonnes per year of fat and 7. 5 tonnes of saturated fat in the toast range; Switch from palm oil to olive oil in the bread snacks range. Optimisation of Nutritional Profile In 2011 we continued to reduce sugar, fat and salt levels in some Private Label products, to wit: 8 tonnes per year of sugar in various yoghourts; 1.7 tonnes per year of fat and 7. 5 tonnes of saturated fat in the toast range; Switch from palm oil to olive oil in the bread snacks range. Tasks of the Nutritionist/Dietician in store: Staging of consultations (nutritional advice) Carrying out of screening (BMI – body mass index) Provision of clarifications about the nutritional and functional characteristics of the products Nutritional Personal Shopper – a free accompanying service during our clients’ shopping, helping out with the healthiest food choices and the interpretation of labels. School Actions – fostering of actions to raise the awareness of the importance of the adoption of healthier diet with children and young people. Around 200 actions have already been boosted which focused on our main campaigns such as the Nutritional Traffic Light and “Prova dos 5”, depending on the target public. Educational Programme “Passaporte para uma vida Hiper Saudável” (Passport for a Hyper Healthy Life) For the second year running we took the Educational Programme “Passaporte para uma vida Hiper Saudável” to the schools, free and aimed at 1st cycle students. These actions included the presentation of the theme deploying dynamic techniques, practical application through educational activities and games and guided tours to the store “back office” (warehouses and cameras). Partnerships established in the context of the promotion of a healthy diet Various entities are our partners in these initiatives which make an active contribution to the success of the Hyper Healthy Movement, to wit: Directorate-general of Health/Platform against Obesity Portuguese Nutritionists’ Association Higher School of Biotechnology, Universidade Católica Faculty of Human Motricity Higher Institute of Health Science Egas Moniz Portuguese Society for Studying Health at School Universidade Atlântica and Universidade Fernando Pessoa Supplier qualification and selection In order to integrate sustainability into the supply chain and align the Retail practices of suppliers with Sonae’s policies, we develop supplier qualification and selection mechanisms, bearing in mind sustainability requirements, including aspects related with the environment, working conditions, human rights, safety and quality. Whenever possible, we continue to prefer national suppliers and in 2011, similarly to the previous year, they represented 80% of the amount purchased from suppliers. Our supply contracts include environmental, employment and human rights’ clauses, applicable to national and international suppliers. Complementing the General Supply Contracts, all suppliers are given the Sonae Environmental Policy. 77 In the context of the contracts with suppliers under the management of Commercial Department for Perishables, there are requirements in the General Supply Contracts which promote sustainability along the supply chain, to wit: To respect and comply with the maximum legal fishing catch quotas and act in accordance with the sustainable fishing policy; To only supply products from fish caught exclusively on vessels which are not on the Greenpeace black list; To comply with all the applicable standards and legislation about the work rendered by minors, human rights and the prohibition to discriminate between workers. Depending on the degree of risk and origin of suppliers, certifications may be required of production, quality, environmental, hygiene and safety and/or social systems, suitable for the type of products to be supplied, also, in complementary fashion, having carried out supplier qualification and selection audits in accordance with Retail own check-list. We seek to maintain demanding criteria meaning that, whenever necessary, and as occurred in 2011, we proceeded to update and strengthen the evaluation and control plan on the supply chain in the context of suppliers/product safety and environmental risk in accordance with the European directives CE* and REACH*. Qualification audits seek to evaluate whether suppliers comply with or continue to respect our rules and this may or may not result in their qualification and integration in our supplier group. Further to these audits, various improvement and correction actions were implemented in conjunction with suppliers. In the case of international suppliers, the International Trade Department is responsible for the international supplier qualification and evaluation programme, applicable in the process to select potential suppliers, as well as in the process to qualify the current supplier base. The qualification and selection audits applicable to international suppliers are based on a questionnaire with 286 questions, grouped into 20 sections. The number of audited international suppliers has increased year after year. Since 2009 the amount registered is 1.244 audited suppliers, located at over 30 different countries. International Trade Management Audits (2011) 116 suppliers subject to selection audits 114 suppliers subject to qualification audits 10% active suppliers Total relative proportion of suppliers audited as value of purchases: 12% Relative proportion of international suppliers audited as value of purchases: 26.32% 22 suppliers audited with level C (not acceptablel) – 11% of those audited * See Glossary Food area audits In view of the nature of our activity, the food area is worthy of particular mention and the rate of supplies of this type subject to audit is thus significant, standing at around 72%, in 2011. Notwithstanding, last year we extended the scope of the supplier audits to other areas, having audited around 3% of suppliers from the textile area and 1% of electronics’ suppliers Evolution of percentage Evolution of percentage of national of food area suppliers audited and international food area suppliers audited 90% 100% 80% 77.6% 70.8% 72.4% 90% 86.3% 75.7% 74.6% 70% 80% 70.9% 70.4% 70% 63.0% 60% 60% 50% 50% 40% 40% 30% 30% 20% 20% 10% 10% 0% 0% 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Percentage of national suppliers audited Percentage of foreign suppliers audited Continente Producers’ Club In 2011 we saw to an alteration of the name of the Sonae Producers’ Club to Continente Producers’ Club (CPC). Created in 1998 with a view to promoting the national products in accordance with high quality and safety standards, CPC supports members in consistent, structured fashion. The producers thus have ensured a route for the runoff of its production, with Sonae having the certainty that it is offering its clients Portuguese products of tried and tested origin and quality. The basic principles of the Continente Producers’ Club are: Planning: promotes the runoff of national production by optimising production capacity, technical support and access to miscellaneous protocols; Certification: ensures the standardisation of the quality and food safety of products, promotes the self-appraisal of production system, communicates and discusses future challenges of the market, ensures traceability to the consumer and promotes environmental responsibility; Knowledge sharing: analyses the production systems and the national production needs, the consumer profile, market trends and the commercialisation strategy, promotes the innovation of products and processes, training and information, with fluidity of communication, bearing in mind a common goal – competitiveness. In 2011, the Continente Producers’ Club was certified by SGS, complying with the requirements laid down in the Technical Specifications of the Continente Producers’ Club. This specification, unique on the market, recognises the innovative nature of this association and reveals a proactive attitude vis-à-vis clients, demonstrating high, tried and tested quality and safety standards. This certification has recognised the commitment to an ongoing improvement policy of the Continente Producers’ Club so as to combine the wealth of genuinely national products with the great strength of a hypermarket chain with millions of consumers nationwide. 79 Main figures: 244 members 2,974 Individual Producers 176 Million € in purchases from Club members (5% up on the 2010 figure) Evolution of the purchases value from members of the Continente Producers’ Club (millions euros) Purchases from member 200 176 Purchases (Millions euros) 168 150 140 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 In 2011 the Continente Producers’ Club was represented at various events whereof we would highlight: PORTO.COME II in the Edifício da Alfândega (former Customs Building) which was aimed at promoting the tips and tastes of the North of Portugal; “Mega Pic-Nic Continente” held in Lisbon which 500,000 visitors went through; «Flavours Market» with around 35 thousand participants and whereby Producers from the Algarve and the Alentejo distributed 1.2 tonnes of products. Flavours Market Continente II staged in Lisbon; Over 60 producers’ stands of the Continente Producers’ Club allowed national delicacies to be tried and tasted at various events. In the context of this programme we are also developing the Continente Producers’ Club Innovation Award which is already in its 2nd year where we distinguish members for their commitment to and compliance with Retail policies. Fishing Sustainability Policy Under the Fishing Sustainability Policy published in 2009 we assumed the commitment to promote the non­ ‑commercialisation of threatened species as well as to select their suppliers in accordance with the fishing methods used in order to contribute to the protection of marine biodiversity. In addition, Fishing Sustainability Policy has defined, monitored objectives with a view to minimising the fishing effects on the diversity of some species which are under threat or under extinction. In 2011 we invested in the following actions: Raising awareness of cod suppliers so that they are certified by MSC – Certified Sustainable Seafood*; Major increase in the total volume of purchases on the fish market compared with 2010; 68% reduction in the commercialisation volume of Guinean sole; 13% reduction in the commercialisation volume of Red Fish; 27% reduction in the commercialisation volume of White Scabbard Fish; 23% reduction in the commercialisation volume of Flounder; 48% increase in the commercialisation volume of Hake caught using the Hooking method. * See Glossary 2011 was also a year of consolidation of the actions commenced in previous years, to wit: Provision of information at the corporate website about fishing sustainability; Inclusion of this theme in the training programmes; Inclusion clause about this theme in the General Supply Contracts; Elimination of the commercialisation of marine species at risk of extinction; Increase in the commercialisation of line fishing product; Greater control and access to information about the fish commercialised through its traceability monitoring; Verification of the presence of Sonae suppliers on Greenpeace black lists; and Fishing Decision System (Traffic Light System), which identifies by means of a colour system the fishing methods used, which allows a decision to be taken about the best alternatives to be commercialised: Aquaculture Existence of some problems 8% relating to the fishing method deployed 62% The fishing methods The fishing methods used harm other cause little danger species/habitats to the existence 9% of the species 21% 55% 12% 9% 24% 81 We are concerned with providing consumers with sustainable products. In this regard, in 2011 we saw the implementation and consolidation of a series of activities so as to ensure compliance with our commitments in this regard. Product Safety In the Retail area we verify whether the national and international suppliers have certifications of food management and/or quality management systems (ISO* 9001, ISO 22000, IFS, BRC, inter alia). In 2011, in the Food Retail area, the following initiatives were undertaken with regard to product safety: Supplier management: Audits of suppliers of acceptance of European Union suppliers certified in Food Safety Systems and/or Quality Management Systems; Audits carried out on the stores Continente, Continente Modelo and Continente Bom Dia by outsourced entities such as external Laboratories and Vets by Quality Technicians and the Food Safety Audit Directorate. Product handling/quality: Microbiological analyses carried out on surfaces and equipment where food products are handled at the Stores of said 3 brands; Microbiological analyses of the store products handled at the 3 Continente brands; Microbiological and physical-chemical analyses carried out on Continente brand products either for their launch onto the market or routine (complying with an annual, predefined schedule); and Laboratory analyses on Private Label product safety so as to ensure their compliance before making available for sale. Product labelling: Private Label product labelling complies with various requirements so as to ensure safety, their proper use, information about the products appropriate destination* at the end of their working life and information about the post-sale service. Sustainable products – Specific requirements of each product type The food products are endowed with miscellaneous additional information about various aspects: nutritional composition – by means of the nutritional traffic light; allergens; preparation and storage; Seal of the Portuguese Cardiology Foundation “A healthy choice” and also “Prova dos 5” logo. In the textile area there is mandatory control of substances which may generate an environmental or social impact and safe use of the product to ensure that they fall within the required limitations. Also in this area we give preference to suppliers that hold Oeko-Tex* certification which ensures the absence of substances which are harmful to health and the environment, with the tests being carried out in random fashion on the presence of forbidden substances. All the catalogues of the textile brands continued to be produced on paper with FCS certification (Forest Stewardship Council)*. In the field of Childcare, the information is marked on the products and on their labels, respecting the standards and alerting consumers, in particular, about safety issues during use In the Footwear area we maintained part of the range with Biocalce Certification*, highlighted on a label placed on the items. * See Glossary In the Sports’, area all products have maintenance instructions for the items on the labels and/or on the packaging. All our pamphlets have the PEFC seal (Programme for Endorsement of Forest Certification)*, which ensures that it is a product originating in forests with sustainable forest management and controlled sources. In the field of Electrical Appliances and Consumer Electronics, the products are subject to an initial assessment whose objective is to ensure compliance with the mandatory internal/external requirements including, inter alia, certifications such as standard ISO 9001 and the information requirements on the packaging which include an indication that all the packaging material is recyclable and an indication, through signs, as to which ecopoint is appropriate for the packaging waste. In addition, there is an assessment of requirements related with energy efficiency, electrical safety, electromagnetic compatibility as well as the requirements of the RoHS* directives (heavy metals) and REACH (hazardous substances)*. Compliance with the requirements minimises the impacts that our products may have in terms of the health and safety of their users. Private Label products As regards Private Label we would highlight the following launches in 2011: Launch of the new First Price Brand – “É Continente”: In order to provide help with budget management of Portuguese families with an assurance of trustworthy products at lower prices, in 2011 we created a new brand for products with first price positioning and the Continente brand. Relaunch of the MYLABEL Beauty Brand: There was an overhaul of the MYLABEL brand image, making it more modern, up-to-date and appealing, repositioning the products of this market segment in accordance with their quality. Consumer electronics (Worten and Vobis) In 2011 we carried out several initiatives in the field of Consumer Electronics aligned with the three operating axes we have defined: a) To promote environmental citizenship through the incentive to collect and forward WEEE (Waste Electrical and electronic equipment) We undertook various campaigns related with the protection of the Environment whereof we would like to highlight: Equipa Worten Equipa (EWE) – In 2011 we collected 5,446 tonnes of WEEE, concerted into the supplying of new equipment to over 300 Portuguese welfare institutions nationwide with an investment in excess of 320,000 euros. In November and December 2011 Worten launched a special edition of EWE whereby it doubled the support provided to welfare institutions. In this special edition, instead of the customary 50€, for each tonne of old equipment collected Worten offered 100€ in new equipment, having considered 14 institutions from the districts of Faro, Lisbon, Oporto, Setúbal, Viseu and Leiria, with the delivery of 312 new items of equipment. The deliveries of equipment supplied, from the collection of WEEE from January to October, will be carried out by April 2012. Recycling of CRT* – Worten challenged the Portuguese to hand in their old TV sets at its stores. With the delivery of used equipment the client gained a 25€ discount on every 250€ of the new item in the range of LCD’S*, LED’S and plasmas at the store. Recycling of large electrical appliances: Under this initiative, by handing in their used electrical appliances (large electrical appliances), the client acquires a 25€ discount on every 250€ of value of the new item. Recycling of photos + IPOD + GPS + Portable DVD Reader: By handing in their used electronic equipment, the client acquired a 10€ discount on every 100€ of value of the new item. * See Glossary 83 Energy Efficiency – Worten once again opted to promote efficient energy consumption, launching the “Energy Efficiency” campaign in which it offered immediate discounts on the purchase of washing machines and fridges with energy classes A+, A++ and A+++ on the basis that the larger the energy class of the product, the larger the discount.  i tech recycling – Vobis offered discounts on the acquisition of pamphlet items when handing in an old one for H brochure items. Inkjet cartridge campaign – Vobis launched a campaign to discount 3€ from receipts when handing in used inkjet cartridges. b) To promote the acquisition of more efficient equipment The aforementioned initiatives, related with CRT monitor recycling (Cathode Ray Tube) and replacement with LCD monitors, recycling of large electrical appliances and energy efficiency, were initiatives also dedicated to the acquisition of equipment with better energy efficiency levels. As regards the percentages of more efficient equipment, year-on-year growth of 7.5% was observed (from 88.5% to 96%) for Class A or Superior items. A reduction was also observed in Class A electrical and electronic equipment (EEE) and an increase in the superior classes, expressing a tendency towards the acquisition of ever more efficient equipment. By contrast, this situation indicates that the efforts made by Worten in this area have been effective Percentage of products sold at Worten by energy efficiency class (2011) 2009 2010 2011 Var. 2010/2011 A+++ 1% 1 p.p. A++ 1% 1% 10% 9 p.p. A+ 20% 22% 41% 19 p.p. A 67% 66% 42% -24 p.p. B C 13% 12% 6% -6 p.p. D c) To promote reuse In 2011, 11,102 inkjet cartridges were recognised, denoting notable year-on-year growth of 162%. As regards EEE recovery, in 2011 it was observed that a total of 596,083 items were recovered (573,202 customer items; 22,881 recovered internally and sold at the Outlet), thereby avoiding their potential transformation into WEEE. Reusable bags In 2011 there was a sharp fall of about 59% in the sale of all reusable bags compared with 2010. This reduction is closely related not only with the negative economic environment experienced in 2011, but also, and first and foremost, with the alteration to the reusable bag of the APED* (Portuguese Distribution Companies’ Association) which, owing to the use of a new, more resistant material, reduced substitution requirements, with its price also having concurrently increased by 0.1€ /unit to 0.7€ /unit. By contrast, the sale of Continente reusable bags maintained the growth trend recorded, year after year, since its introduction into the new stores and in 2011 there was year-on-year growth of 27%. Evolution of the sale of reusable bags (APED Bags + Continente Bags) 2,500,000 2,000,000 513,219 Number of bags 1,500,000 307,522 Continente bags 1,000,000 1,863,519 APED bags 650,936 500,000 1,143,899 0 323,067 2009 2010 2011 Incentive to Saving by Portuguese families In 2011 we strengthened the low pricing policy, the upshot of a specific commitment by Sonae to be by the side of Portuguese families in a particularly difficult economic period. Clients in the Retail area benefitted from a 23% increase in the volume of discounts granted on cards and receipts for a total of 330 million euros. The volume of discounts resulted in an effective savings for all customers of the Food Retail brands (3.1 millions) and Specialized Retail, who enjoyed discounts on cards and receipts. We are committed to the promotion of the social well-being of those communities in which we made our mark, believing that our businesses may make a major contribution to the strengthening of citizenship and social cohesion. For this reason, we continued In this regard, we continued with partnerships and support to 3rd sector organisations. In total the Retail area contributed 9.3 million euros to the community by means of support to various projects in fields like education, health, culture, innovation, the environment and welfare. Through some initiatives clients also made their direct contribution for a total amount of around 726,000 euros. * See Glossary 85 Examples of projects developed Area Project Objetive Earnings in 2011 Continente Missão Sorriso (Smile Mission) Equipment and materials given 665,000 euros spent away to paediatric wards of hospitals on equipment and so that the children have the best materials for paediatric Health conditions during their stays at wards at 16 hospitals. these units. Hipernatura Support, reconversion 31,503,000 euros and maintenance of the urban was invested Environment green spaces in place in the reconversion and incentives to the adoption of 3 new spaces. of a healthier life style. Causa Maior Combating the social exclusion 401,000 euros was raised of senior citizens, promoting their and given to the Social insertion into society and Portuguese Red Cross. contributing to active aging. It involved 625 employees and benefitted around 66,000 people with a total of 78 actions carried out. The Big Hand Remote adoption programme based 21 actions were carried on which the impact that a donation out which involved has on the life of a child (godchild) the participation in Mozambique can be followed by of 687 employees. exchanging letters and photos with the child. Juntos damos + (Together we give +) To support underprivileged Food was distributed in Portuguese families through over 97 towns and cities, an initiative to collect food involving 704 employees and essential goods from clients. in a total of 176 actions Continente committed to equalling carried out, with products the clients' contribution. having been donated for the value of around 392,000 euros. Continente Parks To motivate local populations A Continente park Environment, to do regular physical exercise was implemented as well Health and family activities as various interventions with and Social in the open air. an investment of 100,000 euros which benefitted around 49,000 people. Area Project Objetive Earnings in 2011 Modalfa Portugal mais Feliz project by the Portugal mais Feliz Portuguese Red Cross supports families (Happier Portugal) which are underprivileged and vulnerable In 2011 the Portugal to crisis in the reconstruction of their life mais Feliz campaign sold Social a total of 192,000 projects and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. Every scarf bought scarves and raised helps Portuguese families to have 384,000 euros decent meals, ensuring school transport, buying medication and dreaming about a better future. This year Modalfa was supported by RTP and Radio Comercial. Sport Zone Sport Zone Events Organisation of the Sport Zone Half These races, for the sum Marathon, Women's Race, Marginal of around 800,000 euros, Sport à Noite Sport Zone, Corrida das involved the participation Lezírias Sport Zone and much more. of 62,000 people. Sport Zone Events To promote youth sport by These events, to promote organising events like the Sport which raised around children's sport Zone Kids Cup, Street Basket Sport 300,000 euros, were Zone, Deeply National Surf Circuit participated in by juniors, Gira Vólei project . a total of 28,000 people. Sponsorships of various sports' Sponsorships federations and associations, to wit: The sponsorships Portuguese Olympic Committee, totalled 150,000 euros. Portuguese Paralympic Committee, Portuguese Disabled Sports' Federation, Portuguese Gymnastics' Federation, Portuguese Canoeing Federation, Portuguese Surfing Federation, Portuguese Cycling Federation, the Portuguese Marathon Club and the Madrid Athletics Federation. Worten Equipa Worten Equipa (EWE) For every tonne of Waste Electrical and In 2011 EWE collected electronic equipment (REEE) collected 5,446 tonnes of WEEE, Environment the Equipa Worten Equipa project is having invested 323,000 and Social offering 50 euros in new equipment to euros in new equipment 3rd sector organisations from the north which was give away to the south of the country. In 2011 to over 300 Portuguese a special Christmas edition of EWE was institutions. promoted at which the amount offered in the months of November and December for the collections undertaken doubled (100 euros in new equipment and not the customary 50 euros offered in the other months of the year). 87 Commitments for 2008/2012 Commitment to healthier food habits and products Clients Promotion of information, with a view to: The introduction of healthier food habits; The introduction of healthier consumption habits. Extension of commitments to quality, the environment and society throughout the value chain.To help suppliers comply with market demands. Suppliers To increase the number of audited visits of factories; To progressively implement more demanding eco-efficiency requirements in all the areas covered by the Continente Producers. Reduction of Ecological Footprint, complying with the Environmental Policy Environment To reduce electrical energy consumption by over 6% on a comparable basis; To provide sustained investment in the installation of autonomous energy production systems based on renewable sources; To progressively reduce the emission potential of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions; To reduce the environmental impact deriving from waste production; To reduce the potential consumption of water at stores; To expand environmental certifications and raise the population's awareness about good environmental practices. To contribute to the education of citizenship and social cohesion Community To invest in raising the awareness of society so as to bring about citizenship behaviour in terms of social cohesion and sustainability. To be a reference company Ongoing strengthening of the Company as a space for personal Employees and professional development and fulfilment; To increase the employee qualification level. Commitments for 2011 Commitments What we did for 2011 in 2011 Commitment to healthier food habits and products 199 items in Continente Equilíbrio (62% compared to 2010) To maintain the extended offer of Private Label products 56 in Continente Bio (+14% compared to 2010) in the “Equilíbrio” and “Bio” segments. 28 gluten-free items with the logo of the Portuguese Celiac Association Maintenance of ISO 9001 Certification, the Private Label Monitoring audit carried out in March product launch process 2011 by an accredited external entity and the guarantee of applying – SGS, with the maintenance of system the procedures defined certification having been granted. in the context thereof. We continued to reduce sugar, fat and salt levels in some Private Label products, to wit: 8 tonnes per year of sugar in various yoghourts; 1.7 tonnes per year of fat and 7.5 tonnes of saturated fat in the toast range; Switch from palm oil to olive oil in the range of bread snacks; Clients Continuation of the Hiper Saudável project; Continuation of the Educational Programme “Passport to a Hyper Healthy Life”. 146 educational actions were undertaken with over 3,150 participants, with 1.800 being children and young people of school age. Around 2,300 are children To promote healthier food and young people of school age. dietary habits, focusing on the provision of more 3rd edition of the Food Fortnight – with the and better information staging of screening, nutritional advice, about healthy eating tasting of a healthy breakfast and activities and product attributes. involving the Prova dos 5 with the children. Around 15,000 nectarines and peaches were distributed on various Portuguese beaches with a view to raising the population's awareness about the importance of sufficient consumption of fruit and vegetables and disseminating the hyper healthy project and the Prova dos 5. 89 Commitments What we did for 2011 in 2011 Launch of the Movimento Hiper Saudável (Hyper Healthy Movement) and its 8 commitments to a healthier lifestyle with the staging of 32 educational spots of TV entailed Minuto Hiper Saudável (Hyper Healthy Minute) featuring the actress Catarina Furtado as the endorser and the participation of the Continente nutrition team and other Health Professionals. Commitment to more ecological Several campaigns carried out during products: the year, highlighting Equipa Worten To promote campaigns to incentivise Equipa (EWE) which collected 5,446 the use of equipment with less energy tonnes of WEEE converted into the consumption. offering of new equipment to Welfare Institutions. Reduction /elimination of packaging material in Private Label product In Private Label camping ranges ranges where it is possible replacement of labels with direct printing to print labelling directly onto on the products, doing away with the Clients need for these packaging materials the product, doing away with the use of the paper label (Promaster, Pack.it we reduce (e.g. Private Label range for camping the number of packaging colours to 1) and sleeping bags. To incentivise usage and provide Expansion of reusable bag range a broad range of reusable bags. Improvement and expansion to the Quality control Implementation of the quality and certification processes: management system applied Improvement in the non-food product to the product development process. monitoring and development processes. However, the audit for the granting of an expansion of certification Extension to non-food producers of the development of Continente of certification of the development Private Labels and Monitoring of Product of Continente Private Labels and Suppliers after Development/ and Monitoring of Product and Suppliers Launch in accordance with the standard after Development/Launch, ISO 9001 was put back to the first in accordance with the standard quarter of 2012. ISO 9001. Extension of commitments to quality, the environment and society throughout the value chain. To help suppliers comply with market demands. To maintain the plan to increase 2011 saw an increase in the number Suppliers the number of suppliers audited, of suppliers audited (over 1,400 suppliers qualification and selection audits audited) Commitments What we did for 2011 in 2011 To implement progressively more demanding During 2011 a review was carried out eco-efficiency requirements of the CPC checklist (version 3.3) in all the areas covered which includes new check points. by the Continente Producers' Club In May SGS certified the Continente Producers' Club in accordance To start certification of the with a Producers' Club technical Continente Producers' Club for specification. its members To contribute to fishing Introduction of the Grenadier species Sustainability in the range as an alternative to Hake. To make available more alternative species to endangered species. A 3% increase on the 2010 figure with regard to the sales deriving from To increase the sale of hake originating Aquaculture. in Aquaculture. Purchases at the fish market using To reduce the sale of hake originating the trawling method fell significantly, Suppliers in trawl fishing. with the purchase of the results of craft fishing having risen. To improve the traceability and information about suppliers (current Ongoing updating of the data base and new) and the origin of the fish. with supplier information To improve consumer information Introduction of CCL plaques about the fishing methods deployed. – Proof Of Purchase at Fish Market* with the catching method. Reduction of Ecological Footprint, complying with the Environmental Policy To reduce electrical energy There was a 1.9% reduction consumption by over 1% in electrical energy consumption in the same universe of higher in the same universe of higher consuming (food) stores. consuming (food) stores. To maintain the focus on the A further 5 production plants (photovoltaic) installation of new autonomous came on line under a Microgeneration energy production plants based regime, totalling 39 plants under production on renewable sources, in said regime at the end of 2011; Environment taking due account of the new 19 new production plants (photovoltaic) legislation about the Micro with 20 kWp each were installed under and Mini Generation of energy. a Minigeneration regime. To ensure that over 85% 87% of the vehicles of the contracted of the contracted fleet fleet met the Euro 4 Standard vehicles meet standard EURO 4 or superior (Euro 5 or 6 Standards) or superior. * See Glossary 91 Commitments What we did for 2011 in 2011 To maintain the refrigerant A refrigeration plant operating with gas R22 at refrigeration plants R22 was replaced. At the end of 2011 which have not yet been there were only 6 plants operating with subject to replacement. R22, accounting for 1.7% of the universe of refrigeration plants in operation. During 2011 an extended offer To provide an expanded supply of reusable bags was maintained, of reusable bags. having been launched with new designs with a view to boosting Clients' interest. A growth was observed in the waste To surpass the waste recovery recovery rate of 0.4 pp compared rate achieved in 2010 by with the previous year (from 76.9% Environment at least 0.5%. to 77.3%), corresponding to a 0.5% increase. To reduce drinking water There was a reduction in drinking consumption by over 2% water consumption by 5.8% in the same in the same universe of stores. universe of stores. 4 new Environmental Certifications To increase the number were obtained in accordance with of installations holding standard ISO 14.001 at commercial Environmental Certification premises (stores): 2 in Food Retail in accordance with the Standard and 2 in Specialized Retail. ISO 14001. To draw up an International Environmental Management The 1st draft of this document has been Guide to support operations drawn up. outside Portugal. To contribute to the education of citizenship and social cohesion The green light was given to symbolic To go ahead with projects projects with a great social scope that have positive social impacts such as “Smile Mission”, “Equipa Worten Community on the community in the fields Equipa” and “Sport Zone Races”. of health, education, A series of new projects was also the environment, culture, sports implemented in these support areas, and entertainment activities. such as, The Big Handsponcership programme. To be a reference company Formalisation of the Sonae Human Resources Policy Employees HR' policy formalised. (adapted to the new corporate organisational structure). Commitments for 2012 Commitment to healthier food habits and products Clients To commit to Sensory Analysis with a view to promoting, monitoring and ensuring the superior quality of Continente products during their working life period, seeking to adjust them to the needs of each client. To continue to promote a healthy lifestyle, providing more and better information and acting in the community. To continue to provide a broad range of products with an optimised nutritional profile and adjusted to the different nutritional needs. Extension of commitments to quality, the environment and society throughout the value chain.To help suppliers comply with market demands. Suppliers Extension to non-food producers of certification of the development of Continente Private Labels and Monitoring of Product and Suppliers after Development/Launch, in accordance with the standard ISO 9001. Optimisation of transport boxes with a view to reducing packaging materials. To develop and start the Sonae Suppliers' International Certification process. Social, Ethical and Environmental Certification of the majority of textile suppliers (80% target). Maintenance of Certification of the Continente Producers' Club. To maintain the plan to increase the number of suppliers audited, qualification and selection audits. To contribute to fishing Sustainability: To raise the awareness of consumers about the problem of sustainability. To lend greater prominence to those products deriving from more sustainable catching methods. To raise the awareness of cod suppliers about the certification of sustainable fishing. To increase purchases at the fish market. To carefully select new suppliers with aquaculture fish. To implement progressively more demanding sustainability requirements. 93 Reduction of Ecological Footprint, complying with the Environmental Policy Environment To reduce electrical energy consumption by over 1% in the same universe of higher consuming (food) stores. To maintain the focus on the installation of new autonomous energy production plants based on renewable sources, taking due account of investment availabilities and the legislation about the Micro and Mini Generation of energy. To ensure the maintenance of a high level of eco-efficiency of the vehicles used in the contracted fleet achieved in 2011, in other words, that at least 87% of the vehicles of said fleet comply with the EURO 4 standard or higher. To maintain the refrigerant gas R22 at refrigeration plants which have not yet been subject to replacement (continuous action). To provide an expanded offer of reusable bags. To surpass the waste recovery rate achieved in 2011. To reduce drinking water consumption by 2% in the same universe of stores. To increase the number of installations holding Environmental Certification in accordance with the Standard ISO 14001. To publish an International Environmental Management Guide to support operations outside Portugal. To contribute to the education of citizenship and social cohesion Community To continue with projects that have positive social impacts on the community in the fields of health, education, the environment, culture, sport and entertainment activities. To involve employees in volunteering activities. To be a reference company Employees Strategic medium-long term HR Planning Internationalization of HR processes and policies Making the HR structure more flexible with a view to greater efficiency and a response closer to business needs. “In 2011 Sonaecom achieved historic results. Against an adverse backdrop we were able to comply with the main goals we had set ourselves, both from a financial and economic and social perspective. In terms of sustainability, it should be stressed that we reduced energy consumption by 11%, we expanded the range of “green” products and increased our participation in the community. We also saw our efforts recognised under Engagement Rating 2011 which distinguished us as the most transparent company Iberian wide in our sector and through ACGE and CDP as one of the Portuguese companies with the best performance in climate responsibility. In close collaboration with our stakeholders, we defined the main guidelines for our future strategy: Responsible life, Green life and e-Life. We are convinced that the ambition, seriousness and determination with which we apply ourselves in these matters will be a differentiating element in the current context”. Miguel Almeida, Vice-President Sonaecom Organisational Structure Sonaecom’s simplified structure Sonae SGPS France Télécom Free-float and other qualified shareholdings 53.17% 20.00% 24.36% Sonaecom Own shares 2.47% Optimus Comunicações, S.A. SSI 95 Business Areas OPTIMUS Fixed and mobile communications for private individuals and businesses, including traditional offers of voice, data, internet, WEDO television, as well Business Assurance services as wholesale services PÚBLICO and solutions, focused to third parties. Benchmark daily on optimizing performance newspaper in Portugal and risk management for over 20 years. systems and processes. MAINROAD BIZDIRECT IT Managed Services Sale and marketing of multi-brand and Solutions. IT Security. IT solutions, supported Business Continuity. by partnerships with the main IT Service Management market manufactures, and ITIL consulting, and the management of corporate supported by its Data SAPHETY software licensing contracts, Centres. based on new business models. Services and solutions that cover electronic invoicing, electronic transaction security, paper-free offices and wholly integrated billing solutions. Mission Sonaecom is an entrepreneurial growth company whose ambition is to be the best Portuguese communication services provider and the company of choice for exceptional people to work and discover their full potential. Sonaecom relentlessly pursues the creation of innovative products, services and solutions that fulfil the needs of its markets and generate superior economic value. Sustainability Strategy For Sonaecom, 2011 represented the beginning of a new strategic cycle which enabled us to start planning the strategy for the next three years (2012-2015). The 2nd strategic cycle was preceded by the 1st strategic cycle7 for the quarter 2008-2011 which we concluded in 2011. Strategic Cycle Analysis of internal and sector data Listening to Sonaecom stakeholders Analysis of internal key indicators and external variables, conclusions about stakeholder concerns (Sustainability Bureau, Manager and those responsible for data quality control) Frontline managers workshop: definition of guidelines and commitments. Executive Committee: approval of guidelines and commitments 7 Consult previous sustainability reports to obtain more detailed information about the 1st strategic cyle of Sonaecom. 97 Sustainability Challenges The conclusions of the stakeholders consultation and the issues identified at internal and sectorial level allowed the identification of areas to be improved and list the actions needed to achieve the proposed objectives. Seven themes were identified and defined the three challenges of sustainability in Sonaecom for the next three years: Employees Ethics Privacy Responsible Supply Chain and security marketing Responsible life To act with our employees, customers, suppliers and business partners in a responsible way. Environment Green Life To manage the environmental impacts of our business and make a positive contribution through ICT to the reduction of the environmental footprint of other organizations and society. Society E-Life To develop products and services with a high social, economic and environmental value. 2011 Revenue from EBITDA Net Mobile Turnover IT service per Employees earnings clients employee 8 2010 920.7 M€ 194.0 M€ 41.3 M€ 3,604.1 133.8 2,073 2011 863.6 M€ 231.0 M€ 62.6 M€ 3,639.4 135.3 2,035 Variation -6.2 % 9.8% 51.3% 1.0% 1.1% 38% 2011-2010 In 2011 Sonaecom generated 881.0 million euros, with 685 million euros having been distributed amongst the employees (13%), State (1%), society (6%), suppliers (77%) and banks (3%). EMPLOYEES 92,443,327 € GOVERNMENT 5,214,735 € Wealth created Wealth distributed Client takings Amount distributed SOCIETY 881,019,232 € to our stakeholders 41,704,947 € Amount withheld 195,960,769 € 685,058,463 € SUPPLIERS 528,282,278 € BANKS 17,413,176 € 8 Excludes employees dedicated to equipment sale. 99 Responsible Life The Responsible Life sustainability challenge sets out to act with our employees, clients and suppliers in a responsible way, encompassing five themes: Employees, Ethics, Privacy and Safety, Responsible Marketing and Supply Chain. Performance appraisal and the actions for career development of employees at Sonaecom constitute one of most important processes for the organisation. In 2011 our performance management model was revisited so as to make it more effective and adapted to business requirements. Career development and performance appraisal (ADDC) evolved into IOP – Improving Our People, deriving from the process implemented throughout Sonae. In order for the implementation of the new model to be effective, a series of measures was developed, highlighting the training and certification of all management units with appraisal duties (395 management units out of a total of more than 2,700 hours of training). The other employees learnt of the new appraisal model under the e-learning regime. PASSION EFFECTIVENESS OPENNESS PRINCIPLES LEADERSHIP ENGAGEMENT Intellectual curiosity Customer Courage & Driven Critical & Conviction Entrepreneurial Commitment 2 Inspiration & Collaborate 4 Sense of Drive Organizational Development Great Results Striving 4 purpose Principles Excellence The training hours fell slightly on the 2010 figure (6.9%), attaining a total of 54,144 hours, corresponding to 26.6 hours of training per employee. Training by employee 35 28.8 28.1 26.6 30 Hours of training 25 20 15 by employee (h/emp.) 10 5 0 2009 2010 2011 Furthermore, the quality of the services and products acquired is essential to maintain and improve Sonaecom’s position on the market. For this reason, certified procedures are in force for the selection and appraisal of suppliers in accordance with the Environment and Quality Management System. Percentage of major suppliers assessed 100% 90% 80% 70% 58.0 62.7 60% 50% 42.2 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 2009 2010 2011 Case Studies How to awaken the sense of responsibility of employees and make them active agents and committed to the company information security process? The idea consisted of turning the company employees into Sonaecom agents. A James Bond from the world of telecommunications entrusted with a highly important mission: to protect information from external attacks (such as computer viruses, for example) and to ensure total data security and confidentiality. In order to have success, they had to deploy some “arms”, essentially full compliance with the standards set out in the Sonaecom Information Security Policy. Through this campaign, Sonaecom employees were able to understand that their individual day-to-day actions are vital for compliance with such a wide-ranging mission: to ensure the security of company information. Optimus Mundo To meet the specific requirements of the immigrant community in Portugal, representing 5% of the population, Optimus launched the Mundo tariff which includes national and international calls. Complementing this, we have created the Minutos Mundo voucher which enables Mundo customers to get top­ ‑ups easily without going to an ATM. Each voucher has a PIN and costs €5 which is converted into a balance when the Customer activates his PIN. 101 Contact Center World 2011 Optimus has won international recognition for the “Best Customer Service” in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, obtaining the awards Contact Center World 2011, adjudicated by Contact Center World The Global Association for Contact Center Best Practices & Networking. This award crowned Optimus’ recognition after having been awarded several national prizes. APCC* Portugal Best Awards 2011 Optimus won the “Best Customer Service in Portugal” award in all the categories assessed. Optimus Clix was given the award for the “Best Customer Service” in the Telecommunications’ category. Green life The Green Life sustainability challenge sets out to reduce the environmental impact of the business and develop innovative products and services that help to reduce the footprint of other organisations and society. It should be pointed out that Sonaecom operates in a sector with strong potential to reduce the environmental impact of its clients and of society as a whole. The services are essentially based on digital technologies, providing information and communication solutions which promote dematerialisation, the reduction of the impact in terms of the consumption of natural resources and the consumption of direct and indirect energy. In 2011, the total consumption of energy associated with Sonaecom’s activity stood at 412,962 GJ, 11% down on 2010, corresponding to total GHG emissions of around 37,107 t CO2e. Despite the reduction in energy consumption, there has been an increase in associated GHG emissions owing to the increase in the carbonic intensity of electricity consumed at the installations, the upshot of more adverse hydrological conditions, which were borne out by a reduction in renewables in the energy mix of the electricity suppliers of Sonaecom and the change in the calculation methodology9. If said alterations had not occurred, Sonaecom would have reduced its GHG Emissions by 8%. During 2011 some initiatives were implemented which allowed a reduction in energy consumption and CO2e emissions, to wit: 18% reduction in the electricity consumption of Optimus through the modernisation of the GSM North network (Saving of 5,069,171 kWh which is equivalent to 1,191 tCO2); Reduction in energy consumption of the computer pool (Saving of 526,000 kWh which is equivalent to 124tCO2); LED* lighting at Optimus stores (Saving of 102,272 kWh which is equivalent to 24tCO2); Energy Efficiency at the Público installations (Saving of 111,400 kWh which is equivalent to 45tCO2). Direct energy consumption Indirect energy consumption 397,906 396,964 Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 60,000 55,961 400,000 Direct energy consumption (GJ) 53,744 52,146 354,142 50,000 300,000 40,000 Electricity 30,000 200,000 Thermal 20,000 100,000 10,000 0 0 5,949 6,299 6,675 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 CO2e Emissions 50,000 CO2e Emissions (t CO2e) 40,000 3,734 2,749 30,000 2,731 9 The methodology deployed 37,955by the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions study associatedScope with3each Sonaecom business unit was altered. By 2010 we only used the emission 20,000 25,716the emissions30,159 factor of EDP Universal Service when determining associated with electricity. In 2011, and in order to be more accurate, in addition to the EDP Universal Service Scope 2 component which supplied around 60% of energy, we included the component supplied by EDP Comercial. 10,000 * See Glossary Scope 1 4,091 4,836 4,200 0 2009 2010 2011 397,906 396,964 Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 60,000 55,961 400,000 Direct energy consumption (GJ) 53,744 52,146 354,142 50,000 300,000 40,000 Electricity 30,000 200,000 Thermal 20,000 100,000 10,000 0 0 5,949 6,299 6,675 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 CO2e Emissions 50,000 CO2e Emissions (t CO2e) 40,000 3,734 2,749 30,000 2,731 37,955 Scope 3 20,000 25,716 30,159 Scope 2 10,000 Scope 1 4,091 4,836 4,200 0 2009 2010 2011 In 2011 the total waste produced by Sonaecom suffered a very significant reduction of around 18%. As regards waste, the recovery percentage stood at 70.1%, there having been a reduction justified by the fact that the SUW of the NS and MSC installations of Senhora da Hora are now collected and routed to a landfill by a private company. Total waste Recovered waste 1000 877.7 100% 85.2% 80.1% 900 800 80% 70.1% Quantity (tonnes) 700 638.0 600 541.9 60% 500 Non-hazardous 400 40% 300 Hazardous 200 20% 100 0 26.0 8.5 6.4 0% 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Case Studies WisEnergy This Optimus Connect solution, in partnership with LMIT, Innovation & Technology, is aimed at companies in the industrial and services’ sectors and it sets out to support strategies designed to increase energy efficiency, the sustained reduction in consumption and the efficiency of buildings and infrastructures. The whole service would not work out without being based on communications, with major requirements in the data acquisition process. This differentiating product represents a change in model when comparing to the traditional form of energy management and it involves a series of opportunities in terms of the optimization and efficiency, which meets current company requirements. From the perspective of the corporate client, a potential saving in the energy invoice of 15% to 20% is envisaged without resorting to second investments and, consequently, a reduction in CO2 emissions. 103 E-Life The e-Life sustainability challenge sets out to develop products and services which impact the quality of life of society. Sonaecom recognises the importance of the role of Telecommunications and Information Technologies in the improvement in social inclusion, the assignment of power to people and the stimulation of a knowledge society. Based on this premise, e-life was defined as a strategic mainstay which is based on the commitment to develop products and services with an impact on the quality of life of people and which seeks to meet three objectives: To ensure access for all clients regardless their age, capacity, language, culture and literacy in information technologies through the development of products and services with a high social and environmental value; To contribute to an increase in those activities which generate economic value in the local community (local recruitment, investments in the community, local suppliers etc.); To make ICT into an innovation factor and contribute to the information society. SMILE – Community Intervention Programme This programme intends to contribute to literacy, to wit Information and Communications’ Technologies (ICT), ensuring access and training civilian society in the use of ICT, regardless the age, incapacity, language, culture and literacy in ICT. Smile Operating areas: Smile Competências (Competencies): Involvement and support to the community through what are our professional skills as a Company – ICT. Smile Intervenção (Intervention): Promotion of occasional actions to resolve specific problems facing organizations such as the recovery and reorganization of infrastructures or the restructuring of administrative services. Smile Team Building: Integration of volunteer actions in the context of Team Building, reconciling the intra and interpersonal skills’ development component of employees with participative involvement in the community. Smile Causas (Causes): Raising awareness of major social and environmental issues and covering actions such as blood and bone marrow collections, participation in the actions undertaken by partners from the third sector, inter alia. Number of Smile initiatives Number of Smile hours 60 52 3,000 2,478 40 32 2,000 1,416 20 1,000 0 0 2010 2011 2010 2011 Percentage of Smile volunteers 19.1% 20% 15% 12.7% 10% 5% 0% 2010 2011 One Care – An Optimus partnership Optimus is the operator chosen for providing the new health care model developed by ISA Intellicare, One Care. Centred on the user and focused on prevention, this service sets out to monitor users in permanent, effective and economically advantageous way, in particular those suffering from chronic illnesses. The solution, which intends to find answers in the context of an aging population, is based on communication between machines for remote monitoring of the elderly, allowing the early diagnosis and prevention of risk situations, as well as a more efficient management of care provision and an improvement in the response capacity of health units. With the implementation of One Care, trips to the Health Centre can be reduced by up to 40% and the number of calls made directly to the Health Centre by around 30%. The pilot-project was started in 2011 in partnership with the Family Health Unit CelaSaúde, in Coimbra, which involved the installation of the One Care solution at 5 homes, monitoring 7 users aged between 30 and 92. Project K – The corporate responsibility of Optimus Since 2010, Optimus has developed a corporate responsibility programme based on the supply and offer to special public groups of all-in telecommunications’ solutions. The programme allows distances to be cut through the intelligent deployment of new technologies, simultaneously contributing to education and the fight against infoexclusion and promoting the responsible and correct use of equipment, which it provides to such a special public group. This programme derives from partnerships between Optimus, Acreditar, SOL Association, Gil Foundation and Salvador Association. By the end of 2011, Optimus had provided 69 latest generation laptops with Kanguru mobile Internet, free communications and maintenance support. About 21 thousand hours use of this equipment and communications by users from the organizations was recorded, which generated 1,278 GB, accounting for around 32 thousand euros. * See Glossary 105 “The success of our activity involves the constant appraisal of the interaction between economic, social and environmental objectives. We believe that this balance is vital for the sustained development of the company. We continue to be an international reference for sustainability in the Shopping Centre sector as was borne out recently by our funds being ranked as the most sustainable in Europe in accordance with the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark.” Fernando Guedes Oliveira, CEO Sonae Sierra. Sonae Sierra is the international shopping centre specialist that is passionate about bringing innovation and excitement to the shopping industry. Incorporated in Portugal in 1989, Sonae Sierra is owned by Sonae, SGPS (Portugal) and Grosvenor (United Kingdom) both with 50%. It has an integrated business which encompasses owning, developing and managing shopping centres as well as the provision of services to third parties in geographies as diverse as Europe, South America and North Africa. Owned Gross Lettable Shopping Direct Number of tenant Shopping Area (GLA) centres under employees contracts Centres under management construction worldwide under management 2,2 49 5 1,090 8,495 million m2 Mission Sonae Sierra aims to be the leading international specialist in shopping centers. Sonae Sierra’s mission is to provide ultimate shopping experiences to its customers, creating outstanding value for shareholders, investors, tenants, communities and employees, while contributing to sustainable development. Sonae Sierra’s vision and mission are underpinned by a set of core values and principles regarding its business culture, responsibility towards its staff, the environment and local communities where it operates and independence from political power. Business Areas Sonae Sierra is a holding company for four separate Sonae Sierra businesses: Sierra Investments, Sierra Developments, Sierra Management and Sonae Sierra Brasil. Our businesses, with the exception of Sonae Sierra Brasil, also act as knowledge and service providers to third parties. Sierra Sierra Sierra Sonae Sierra Investments Developments Management Brasil Sierra Investments Sierra Developments Sierra Management Sonae Sierra Brazil owns the company's constantly seeks is responsible operates shopping centres opportunities to develop for managing autonomously and is responsible new and innovative shopping and commercializing and is focused for the investment centres that are adapted shopping centres on investing in, activity. to local communities’ needs, with a focus developing and It also holds 50.1% are respectful of local values on maximizing their managing a growing of the Sierra Fund and culture and create value long-term value. number of shopping and 47.5% of the Sierra based on a sustainable centres in Brazil. Portugal Fund and long-term approach. and acts as asset manager for both funds. Strategic Areas and Corporate Responsibility Management Sonae Sierra has its own Corporate Responsibility (CR) management system, responsible for the monitoring and on­‑going improvement of its performance in the nine most important impact areas of its business. Energy Biodiversity and Climate Waste Water and Habitats Health Communities and Safety Tenants Suppliers and Visitors Employees The values and principles embodied in Sonae Sierra´s vision are developed into policies and strategies which allow the company to translate their commitments into practical actions. Sonae Sierra tracks and evaluates the progress against key performance indicators and targets on an annual basis to ensure that achieves their long-term objectives. 107 2011 The integrated approach to owning, developing and managing shopping centres allows Sonae Sierra to have an impact on the economy which goes beyond their own direct financial action and the remuneration of their shareholders. The company creates jobs, stimulates the local markets and contributes to economic growth in the communities where it operates. Some of the highlights of Sonae Sierra for 2011: Direct net profit of 61.1 million euros, up by 6% in comparison with 2010; Loan-to-value ratio reduced from 46.4% to 43.7%; Global rental income increased to €431.8 million, up by 1% in comparison with 2010; Successful Initial Public Offering (IPO) of Sonae Sierra Brazil; ISO 14001 certification achieved for a further three shopping centres and two construction works; OHSAS 18001 certifications achieved for a further five shopping centres and two construction works. Le Terrazze in Italy was the first shopping centre in the world to simultaneously achieve ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications for the Safety, Health and Environment Management System (SHEMS) of its construction works; Sonae Sierra property funds ranked as the most sustainable in Europe and third worldwide by the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB); Sonae Sierra ranked as the leader of the Corporate Climate Responsibility Index published by ACGE in Portugal for the sixth time; Maintained high levels of satisfaction among tenants, visitors and employees; and Reduced the rate and severity of work accidents in our workforce in comparison with 2010. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) Electricity Efficiency of owned portfolio and corporate offices (excluding tenants) of owned portfolio 0.08 0.067 600 527 514 514 kWh/m2 mall and toilet area 0.07 500 0.06 tCO2e/m2 GLA 0.05 400 0.034 0.04 300 0.028 0.03 200 0.02 0.01 100 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Water consumption efficiency (excluding tenants) Total waste recycled as proportion of owned portfolio of the waste produced 3.8 3.7 3.7 4.0 60% 53% 51% 3.5 46% 50% 3.0 40% %/weight 2.5 litres/visit 2.0 30% 1.5 20% 1.0 10% 0.5 0.0 0% 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Average Occupancy Index Proportion of suppliers with ISO 14001 certification 95.9% 96.4% 96.7% 38% 100% 40% %/GLA across owned portfolio 90% 35% 80% 27% 30% 70% 60% 25% % 50% 20% 17% 40% 15% 30% 10% 20% 5% 10% 0% 0% 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Marketing investments in CR and other contributions Number of hours spent by employees to the community in charity organizations 1,600,000 1,483,638 3,500 3,059 3,001 1,400,000 1,218,806 2,746 3,000 1,142,628 Number of hours 1,200,000 2,500 1,000,000 € 2,000 800,000 1,500 600,000 400,000 1,000 200,000 500 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Investment in employee training and development Average hours of training per employee 1,400 1,195 60 1,200 48.9 50 40.2 hours/employee 1,000 38.1 776 40 €/capita 800 528 30 600 20 400 200 10 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Number of non-conformities per hour of SPO Proportion of completed development (Safety, Health and Environment Preventive Observations) on previously developed land (% by area) 100% 100% 100% 9 100% 7.8 90% 8 80% 7 Number/hour 5.7 5.8 70% 6 %/area 60% 5 50% 4 40% 3 30% 2 20% 1 10% 0 0% 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 109 Case Studies Luz del Tajo saves 7,000kWH of electricity with a lighting solution for lifts Lighting is responsible for a significant amount of electricity consumption in our shopping centres. A report from the International Energy Agency highlights that switching to efficient lighting could cut the world’s electricity bill by 10% and save 16,000 megatonnes of CO2 in the years up to 2030. Improving electricity efficiency is one of Sonae Sierra’s public commitments, and with this in mind Luz del Tajo in Spain recently introduced an innovative measure to avoid wasteful consumption. The team identified that lighting was not needed in the shopping centre’s lifts when they were not in use, and therefore decided to install presence sensors that would automatically switch the lights on and off. Fluorescent light bulbs were also substituted by more efficient LED bulbs by the maintenance contractor, Schindler. The team calculated that the hours of operation would drop from 22 hours a day (on average) to eight hours; representing savings of almost 7,000kWh per year. This is equivalent to the annual electricity consumption of a large household, and allows us to save costs of €1,386 per year after a payback period of 3.2 years to cover the investment costs – a major accomplishment considering that this is achieved through changes to three lifts and four hoists! All light bulbs that need replacing at Luz del Tajo will from now on be substituted with LED light bulbs. Efficient equipment and creative campaigning save water at GranCasa Sonae Sierra’s shopping centres in Spain are among the most water efficient in the portfolio – using 2.3 litres of water on average per visit in 2011. GranCasa decided to implement a programme to reduce visitors’ water consumption in the shopping centre even further by acting on two different fronts: awareness raising and technical measures. Between March and June 2011, the shopping centre organised five campaigns, at a total investment of €2,130. With the theme of saving water in everyday activities, these campaigns used different media such as awareness messages; television; leaflets with water saving tips and even a competition to incentivize shopping centre visitors to take shorter showers. Furthermore, improvement works being undertaken in the shopping centre toilets were seen as an opportunity to procure and install waterless urinals which would allow significant water savings. These works arose, however, some challenges: the work had to be done outside of business hours and the necessary investment had to fit within our existing budget. We were able to complete the work by spreading it between January and September 2011 and by rationalising costs, managing to fund the whole project for €7,000 in total. Overall in 2011, GranCasa reduced its total water consumption by 0.5% in comparison with 2010. GaiaShopping mobilizes the local community to protect the forests Forest fires can cause extensive damage to human life and the natural environment. In Portugal, where forest cover occupies around 38% of the total land surface and various forest products are important contributors to the export market, forest fires present a significant risk and can be devastating. Like other shopping centres which have a Community Advisory Panel (CAP) in place, in 2011 GaiaShopping in Portugal held a discussion with CAP members on the International Year of the Forest. Inspired to take action to protect local woodlands, the CAP members decided to work together to reforest an area that had been previously burned down in a forest fire. With little budget and a lot of people to involve, the GaiaShopping team made great efforts to organise the reforestation day. The nature conservation organization Quercus, which is represented on the GaiaShopping CAP, identified the area where the work should be done and advised on the particular species which should be planted taking into account the conditions of the soil and climate, and the need to mitigate the risk of forest fires from spreading in the future. A total of 53 people volunteered, including staff from tenants’ shops and shopping centre service suppliers and representatives from local entities which are part of the GaiaShopping CAP, such as the forestry department, local firemen, the local council and charitable organizations which support social and environmental causes. The day was a great success. Everyone collaborated as a team and all stakeholders involved were very pleased to have the opportunity to make a positive contribution to their community and the environment. 111 Engagement with suppliers at Le Terrazze brings positive results In January 2010, we began the construction at Le Terrazze in Italy. With 38,600 m2 of Gross Lettable Area (GLA), 80% of which is already let, Le Terrazze will be the biggest shopping centre in La Spezia province. Since the beginning of the construction works, we have been implementing our SHEMS on site to reduce risks for workers and the community, and lower our impact on the environment. We have faced several difficulties: on a practical side, the relatively small size of the site made it difficult to store some materials or install some equipment needed to implement the good practices prescribed by the SHEMS, and the characteristics of the site made it prone to flooding. We also had to challenge the conventional habits and attitudes of our suppliers, presenting SHE practices which were new to them. All worked hard to solve these challenges, rationalising the available space, implementing water run-off improvements and continuously engaging with our suppliers and assessing their SHE performance. We delivered extensive training every month, totalling 1,876 man hours since 2010, to ensure that all new staff were appropriately informed about different SHE aspects. The water and power consumption and waste production associated with construction activities were monitored and considerable efforts were made to minimise the amount of waste sent to a landfill. For example, the soil removed from the construction site was used for nearby areas’ construction works and waste separation was improved thanks to clearer instructions on waste compactors. The team installed a rainwater collection system to spray roads for dust prevention and reused water to wash trucks. A series of measures were adopted to minimise safety risks and hazards and carried out observation exercises every month to establish and report on potential non-conformities with Sonae Sierra´s SHEMS. After inspecting the construction site in July 2011, auditors from Lloyds Register Quality Assurance recommended Le Terrazze for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification, and Le Terrazze became the first construction site in the world to simultaneously obtain this double certification. On-going commitments to investing in education benefits over 70 students in Brazil Investment in education is recognized as an important factor in the reduction of social problems. It increases the opportunities that citizens have to enter the labour market, broadens their perspectives and strengthens both personal and professional values. Two of Sonae Sierra´s shopping centres in Brazil have implemented a pioneering programme that offers free classes to the public and the possibility for students to complete their high school graduation. The idea was developed by Shopping Metrópole which had identified the need to empower employees and service providers who had the potential and willingness to learn, but were unable to complete their studies owing to financial limitations, a lack of family support or their working hours. In 2006, Metrópole Educa was launched. Based on this model, Shopping Penha set up the ‘Penha Educa’ programme in December 2008. Access to the programme was extended to local residents after a survey conducted by the centre indicated that there was also an interest and demand for this type of scheme in the community. Since its implementation, Shopping Penha has invested more than R$175,000 (€75,360) in the programme. This covers classroom infrastructure; furniture; audio-visual resources; the periodic purchase of educational materials such as books and school supplies; the contract with the department for industrial social services (SESI) for the payment of qualified teachers; an academic advisor and the organization of graduation and publicity. The approximate annual investment is R$56,000 (€24,110). Both Shopping Metrópole and Shopping Penha point to the testimonials of its students as evidence of the success of the project. Many of them have stated that they feel more prepared for the labour market, have greater self-esteem and are highly motivated to continue; with a good number of students staying on to complete the second level of studies. This year the Metrópole Educa programme enrolled an initial class of 18 students and a second group of 15 students are preparing for graduation. Currently there are 38 students enrolled in the Penha Educa programme. Stimulating creativity and initiative to build a culture of innovation Sonae Sierra believes that innovation training can bring real benefit to the business. CLICK (Creative Learning, Innovation and Continuous Knowledge) is a programme designed to enhance Sonae Sierra’s innovation capacity. First launched in 2009 with a focus on developing creativity, in 2011 we held the second part of the programme, CLICK2, to promote an initiative with the strapline “Become the change you want to see”. It is our view that combining creativity with initiative is the formula for creating innovation. The content of the CLICK2 programme was developed by the Innovation Office, in co-operation with Sonae Sierra’s Human Resources Department and sponsored by the CEO and all Executives. It consisted of one day workshops in small groups and was facilitated by Sonae Sierra’s own ‘Innovation Champions’, selected staff from all business functions and levels who have been trained by external consultants to deliver the programme. CLICK2 received good feedback from employees at all levels of the business, with an 84% participation rate and an average evaluation of 3.7 on a scale of 1 to 4. It also increased the satisfaction and motivation of the Innovation Champions and allowed them to work closely with people from other departments to share their knowledge about innovation and help embed an innovation culture across our organization. 113 KPMG & Associados – Sociedade de Revisores Telefone: +351 210 110 000 Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Fax: +351 210 110 121 Edifício Monumental Internet: www.kpmg.pt Av. Praia da Vitória, 71 A, 11º 1069-006 Lisboa Portugal Independent Limited Assurance Report (This Report is a free translation to English from the Portuguese version. In case of doubt or misinterpretation the Portuguese version will prevail) To the Executive Board of Directors of SONAE S.G.P.S., S.A. Introduction 1. We have been engaged by the Executive Board of Directors of Sonae S.G.P.S., S.A. (Sonae) to provide limited assurance on the sustainability information included in the Sustainability Report 2011 (“the Report”) of Sonae for the year ended 31 December of 2011. Responsibilities 2. The Executive Board of Directors of Sonae is responsible for:  The preparation and presentation of the sustainability information included in the Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), as described in the chapter Our Report in the Sustainability Report and for the information and assertions contained within it; and,  For establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported performance information is derived. 3. Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That Standard requires that we comply with applicable ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance whether nothing came to our attention that causes us to conclude that the sustainability information included in Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011, is not free from material misstatement. Scope 4. A limited assurance engagement on a sustainability report consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included:  Inquiries of management to gain an understanding of Sonae processes for determining the material issues for Sonae key stakeholders groups; KPMG & Associados – Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de KPMG & Associados S.R.O.C., S.A. Matriculada na Conservatória Contas, S.A., a firma portuguesa membro da rede KPMG, Capital Social: 2.840.000 Euros Pessoa Colectiva Nº do registo Comercial de composta por firmas independentes afiliadas da KPMG PT 502 161 078 Inscrito na O.R.O.C. Nº 189 Lisboa sob o Nº PT 502 161 International Cooperative ( KPMG International ), uma entidade Inscrito na C.M.V.M. Nº 9093 078 suíça.  Interviews with relevant staff, at corporate and business units, responsible for providing the sustainability information in the Report;  Comparing the information presented in the Report to corresponding information in the relevant underlying sources to determine whether all the relevant data derived from such underlying sources has been included in the Report; and  Reading the information presented in the Report to conclude if it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of Sonae. 5. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is less than that for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. Consequently, it does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit or a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or a reasonable assurance conclusion. Conclusion 6. Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information included in the Report of Sonae for the year ended 31 December 2011 is not presented fairly, in all material respects with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as described in the chapter Our report of the Sustainability Report. 7. Our limited assurance report is made solely to Sonae in accordance with the terms of our engagement. Our work has been prepared only with the objective of reporting to Sonae those matters for which we were engaged in this limited assurance report and for no other purpose. We do not accept or assume responsibility to any third party than Sonae for our work, for this limited assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. Oporto, 29 June 2012 KPMG & Associados, Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (n.º 189) represented by Adelaide Maria Viegas Clare Neves (ROC n.º 862) 2 117 Economic Indicators (EC) EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 2010 2011 Direct economic value generated (€) 6,402,000,000 6,201,728,204 Revenue 6,402,000,000 6,201,728,204 Economic value distributed (€) 5,904,400,000 5,765,089,971 Operating Costs 4,967,000,000 4,816,621,956 Employee Salaries and benefits 693,000,000 711,949,603 Payments to Investors 176,000,000 186,484,747 Payments to the State 58,000,000 39,899,298 Donations and other invest, in the community 10,400,000 10,134,366 Accumulated economic value (€) 497,600,000 436,638,233 Scope of reporting: Sonae EC3: Coverage of obligations relating to the benefits’ plan defined by the organisation The Sonae Retail area has no pension funds. EC4: Major financial support received from the government The support received from the State through operating subsidies, investment subsidies and tax benefits stood at 4,909,544 euros. This amount does not include the amount obtained through the SIFIDE (Tax Incentives’ System for Business R&D). Scope of reporting: Sonae EC6: Policies, practices and proportion of costs with local suppliers at important operating units 2009 2010 2011 Total costs with suppliers (€) 4,000,000,000 4,337,000,000 4,270,509,809 Total costs with foreign suppliers (€) 696,000,000 852,000,000 871,909,644 Total costs with national suppliers (€) 3,304,000,000 3,485,000,000 3,398,600,165 Proportion of costs with national suppliers (%) 83% 80% 80% Scope of reporting: Retail (Purchases of goods of Sonae MC and Sonae SR – this does not include the investment and costs value which go directly to the operating account (e.g. specialized, outsourced work etc.). EC7: Local contracting procedures and proportion of top management posts taken up by individuals from the local community at the most important operating units. Similarly to last year, 96% of top managers belong to the local community. The company contracting policy is based on the taking up of operational posts by members of the community where the business units are located, thereby contributing to the employability levels of the regions. Scope of reporting: Retail EC8: Development and impact of investments in infrastructures and services which are essentially aimed at the public benefit through commercial involvement in kind or pro bono Support to the community includes donations made by Sonae to the community, in the main for the public good, with 3,051 actions having been carried out which represented an investment of 10.1 million euros. In 2011 it was not possible to post the amount invested by Sonae in infrastructures for the public good. Scope of reporting: Sonae Environmental Indicators (EN) EN1: Materials used by weight or volume. Although the Retail trade is an eminently commercial activity, it has a high number of employees and associated administrative processes and consequently the consumption of paper is significant. Hence, we have been implementing measures to economise on this material such as, for example: Control and efficiency of printing by replacing internal procedures and equipment; Dematerialisation of internal processes and interaction with suppliers; and Promotion of the use of recycled paper. 2009 2010 2011 Variation 2010-2011 Number of reams ofA4 consumed (no.) 256,890 168,570 166,985 -1% Total paper consumption (t) 642,225 421,425 417,463 -1% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal EN2: Percentage of materials used which derive from recycling Variation 2009 2010 2011 2010-2011 Number of reams of recycled A4 140,755 78,852 73,112 -7% paper consumed Weight of recycled paper consumed (t) 351,888 197,130 182,780 -7% Percentage of recycled paper 55% 47% 44% -3 p.p. consumed (%) Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal EN3: Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Evolution of direct energy consumption by type 2009 2010 2011 Natural gas consumption (m3) 393,570 421,033 447,294 Propane gas consumption (t) 110 56 30 Diesel consumption by stores (litres) 177,039 143,095 130,165 Diesel consumption by goods haulage vehicles (litres) 10,175,786 10,753,972 10,779,887 Diesel consumption by employee vehicles (litres) 1,751,127 1,994,297 2,007,367 Gasoline consumption by employee vehicles (litres) 51,210 44,429 22,967 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal 119 Evolution of direct energy consumption by type (GJ Variation 2009 2010 2011 a) 2010-2011 Natural gas consumption (GJ) 15,137 16,193 17,203 6% Propane gas consumption (GJ) 5,097 2,609 1,457 -44% Diesel consumption by stores (GJ) 6,421 5,190 4,850 -7% Diesel consumption by goods 388,007 442,025 401,700 -9% haulage vehicles (GJ) Diesel consumption by employee 63,508 72,328 74,802 3% vehicles (GJ) Gasoline consumption by employee 1,698 1,473 772 -48% vehicles (GJ) Total direct energy consumption (GJ) 479,868 539,817 500,783 -7% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal a) The diesel and petrol conversion factors were updated in the calculations relating to 2011. Conversion factors Energy Unit Factor (2011) Source (2011) Values table for Inferior Calorific Power, Natural Gas PCI (GJ/m3) 0.038 Emission Factor and CO2 Oxidation Factor used in the National Greenhouse Gas Inventory published in 2008 Values table for Inferior Calorific Power, Emission Propane Gas PCI (GJ/t) 48.55 Factor and CO2 Oxidation Factor used in the National Greenhouse Gas Inventory published in 2008 Density (kg/l) 0.86 Galp Energia – Safety Data Sheet Gasoline Diesel APA – Portuguese National Inventory Report PCI (GJ/t) 43.33 on Greenhouse Gases 1990-2009, 2011 Density (kg/l) 0.75 Galp Energia – Safety Data Sheet Gasoline Gasoline APA – Portuguese National Inventory Report PCI (GJ/t) 44.79 on Greenhouse Gases 1990-2009, 2011 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal EN4: Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Electrical energy production through renewable energy source Variation 2009 2010 2011 2010-2011 Electricity produced through 51.7 136.9 194.6 42% renewable energy source (MWh) Electricity produced through 186 493 701 42% renewable energy source (GJ) Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Sonae sells all the electricity produced through renewable energy sources to the National Grid. Evolution of indirect energy consumption by primary source 2009 2010 2011 Variation 2010-2011 Electricity consumption at stores (MWh) 454,814 455,418 485,675 7% Electricity consumption at manufacturing centres (MWh) ND 6,775 6,912 2% Electricity consumption (MWh) 454,814 462,193 492,587 7% Electricity consumption (GJ) 1,637,330 1,663,895 1,773,315 7% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Conversion factors Energy Unit Factor (2011) Source (2011) Electricity (GJ/MWh) 3.6 International Energy Agency Electricity consumption by store area (GWh/1000m2) Variation 2009 2010 2011 2010-2011 Store area (1000 m2) 835 858 872 2% Electricity consumption by store 0.54 0.53 0.56 5% area (GWh/1000m2) Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal The number of stores has varied over the years. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, 836 stores, 869 stores and 902 stores were considered, respectively. 121 Electricity by primary source in 2011 (GJ) Total Water 396,673 Water PRE 17,373 Wind 138,373 Cogeneration* and microproduction PRE 200,314 Natural Gas 579,398 Fueloil 21,273 Coal 283,716 Nuclear 115,097 Geothermics 2,506 Diesel 144,901 Others 26,195 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Source: ERSE – Energy Services Regulatory Authority (considering EDP Universal Service providers, Electricity Company of Madeira and Union Fenosa) and Endesa. EN8: Water consumption by source Evolution in public system water consumption (m3) Variation 2009 2010 2011 2010-2011 Total water consumption (m3) 797,011 757,734 724,414 -4% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal – The total water consumption value includes the Continente, Continente Modelo and Continente Bom Dia units. Evolution of the public system water consumption by store area (m3/m2) Variation 2009 2010 2011 2010-2011 Store area (1000m2) 504 517 516 -0.3% Evolution of the public system water consumption by store area (m3/m2) 1580 1464 1404 -4% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal EN10: Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water At present there are no water recovery and reuse processes at our operating facilities, to wit at shops and depots. We only have one experience in this regard, to wit at the Sonae Business Centre Tower in Maia where the effluents from the wash stands and bathing facilities are recovered and reused in the toilets and urinals of said building. In this building there is also a rainwater reuse system, being deployed for the irrigation of the existing green area. Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal * See Glossary EN11: Location and size of the sites belonging to, rented or administered by the organisation in protected areas or with a high value for biodiversity or adjoining them The Retail business has no facilities in areas classified as habitat areas rich in biodiversity. EN12: Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on areas which are protected or which have a high value for biodiversity The Retail business has no facilities in areas classified as habitat areas rich in biodiversity. The impact which Sonae may have will be in terms of the products it commercialises. As such, in 2009 it proceeded with the publication of its Fishing Sustainability Policy in which it undertakes to act with a view to reducing or minimising negative effects on fish species which are endangered or at risk of extinction. Through the Continente Producers’ Club too Sonae promotes the implementation of agricultural processes with less impact on the environment and biodiversity. Further information about this theme can be found in the chapter “Promotion of sustainability in the supply chain”. EN13: Protected or recovered habitats In 2011 there were no operations leading to alterations to the surrounding habitats which involved the restoration thereof. The impact which Sonae may have will be in terms of the products it commercialises. See reply to indicator EN12. EN16: Total direct and indirect emissions of gases with a greenhouse effect by weight Evolution of emissions of CO2 and by source Variação 2009 2010 2011 a) 2010-2011 Emissions associated with natural gas consumption (t CO2e) 849 908 965 6% Emissions associated with propane gas consumption (t CO2e) 377 193 92 -52% Emissions associated with diesel consumption by stores (t CO2e) 476 385 359 -7% Emissions associated with diesel consumption by goods' 28,751 32,754 29,726 -9% haulage vehicles (t CO2e) Emissions associated with diesel consumption 4,706 5,359 5,535 3% by employee vehicles (t CO2e) Emissions associated with gasoline consumption by employee 116 101 53 -47% vehicles (t CO2e) Total GHG emissions associated direct energy consumption (t CO2e) 35,275 39,701 36,730 -7% Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) 173,742 159,669 181,977 14% Total GHG emissions (t CO2e) 209,017 199,369 218,708 10% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal a) The calculation of this indicator includes those amounts reported in the indicators EN3 and EN4.The CO2 emission factors of diesel and petrol were updated when calculating emissions for 2011. 123 Emission factors Energy Unit Factor (2011) Source (2011) Natural Gas (kg CO2/GJ) 56.10 APA – National Greenhouse Gas Inventory published in 2008 Propane Gas (kg CO2/GJ) 63.10 Diesel (kg CO2/GJ) 74.00 APA – Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases 1990-2009, 2011 Gasoline (kg CO2/GJ) 69.20 Electricity (g CO2/kWh) 369.43 ERSE + ENDESA Proportion of electricity consumed deriving from different suppliers relating to 2011 Electricity Suppliers % CO2 (g/kWh) Observation EDP SU 11.1% 233.88 (average annual value SOURCE: ERSE) EEM 2.5% 506.44 (average annual value SOURCE: ERSE) UNION FENOSA 43.5% 370.33 (average annual value SOURCE: ERSE) ENDESA 42.9% 395.89 (average annual value SOURCE: ENDESA) TOTAL 100.0% 369.43 EN17: Other relevant and indirect emissions of gases with a greenhouse effect by weight Evolution of emissions of contracted fleet 2009 2010 2011 Variation 2010-2011 Distance travelled (km) 34,711,757 37,418,198 36,951,470 -1% Diesel consumption by contracted fleet (GJ) 388,007 442,025 401,700 -9% Emissions by goods' haulage vehicles (tCO2e) 28,751 32,754 29,726 -9% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Conversion factors Unit 2011 Source (2011) APA Portuguese National Inventory Diesel FE (kg CO2/GJ) 74.00 Report on Greenhouse Gases 1990-2009, 2011 Detailed information about % of vehicles complying with Standards Euro 4; Euro 5 and Euro 6 Variation 2010 2011 2010-2011 Standard Euro 4 47% 50% 3 p.p. Standard Euro 5 34% 36% 2 p.p. Standard Euro 6 1% 1% 0 p.p. Total vehicles complying with Standards Euro 4,5 and 6 82% 87% 5 p.p. Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal EN19: Emissions of ozone-layer destroying substances by weight Evolution in the type of coolant fluids used at the cold production plants 2009 2010 2011 R 404 69% 78% 79% R427a 9% 10% 9% R22 5% 2% 2% Glycol 17% 10% 10% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal From the perspective of emissions of substances which deplete the Ozone Layer, only emissions resulting from R22 leakage will be considered. We closed 2011 with only 6 plants at 3 Stores with said kind of coolant fluid (gas): Continente in Braga, Continente CoimbraShopping and Continente in Cascais. According to information provided by the Stores (in the respective ES’s Environmental Scorecards) the total emission of R 22 owing to accidental leakage in 2011 stood at 3,540 kg (Braga – 240 kg; CoimbraShopping – 1,200 kg and Cascais – 2,100 kg). It is estimated that leakage represents around 0.195 equivalent tonnes of CFC-11. Calculation formula: An ODP value is applied (Ozone Depletion Potential) which transforms R22 into CFC 11, corresponding to 0.055. (Source: The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer). 125 EN20: NOx, SOx and other emissions Evolution of emissions of NOx and SOx by source 2009 2010 2011 a) NOx Emissions – Diesel consumption by stores (t) NR NR 104 NOx Emissions – Diesel consumption by goods haulage vehicles (t) 310 354 321 NOx Emissions – Diesel consumption by employee vehicles (t) 51 58 60 NOx Emissions – Gasoline consumption by employee vehicles (t) 1 1 <1 TOTAL NOx EMISSIONS (t) 362 412 486 SO2 Emissions – Diesel consumption by stores (t) NR NR 27 SO2 Emissions – Diesel consumption by goods haulage vehicles (t) 81 93 84 SO2 Emissions – Diesel consumption by employee vehicles (t) 13 15 16 SO2 Emissions – Gasoline consumption by employee vehicles (t) <1 <1 <1 TOTAL SO2 EMISSIONS (t) 95 108 127 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal a) The calculation of this indicator posts the values reported in the EN3 indicator Emission factors NOx SO2 Unit Source Diesel 0.8 0.21 kg/GJ IPCC 2006 Gasoline 0.6 0.075 kg/GJ IPCC 2006 EN21: Total water discharge by quality and destination Sonae does not have measurements of the quantity of wastewater discharged. However, for the calculation of wastewater, the factor used in the engineering in these cases was applied where it is assumed that 80% of water consumed results in wastewater. Evolution of volume wastewater discharged (m3) 2009 2010 2011 Variation 2010-2011 Volume of wastewater discharged (m3) 637,609 606,187 579,531 -4% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal – The discharge of liquid effluents relates to the food stores Except for the stores in Vila Franca de Xira (in Mainland Portugal) and Cancela and Ribeira Brava (in the Autonomous Region of Madeira), all the other stores discharge their liquid effluents into public collectors. Both the aforementioned stores as well as the stores of Oliveira de Azeméis, Ovar, Anadia, Torres Vedras and Santarém are endowed with wastewater treatment plants with biological treatment (secondary) so that the liquid effluent meets the applicable legal requirements: discharge into natural environment; discharge in accordance with the applicable Municipal Regulations. At all the wastewater treatment plants installed, monitoring is carried out of effluent quality. EN22: Total quantity of waste by disposal method and type Evolution of the quantity of waste managed and the respective final destination Variation 2009 2010 2011 2010-2011 Hazardous waste (t) 4,238 2,171 1,928 -11% Recovery (t) 4,238 2,171 1,928 -11% Disposal (t) 0 0 0 0% Non-hazardous waste (t) 58,214 63,694 64,919 2% Recovery (t) 42,726 48,482 49,734 3% Disposal (t) 15,488 15,212 15,185 0% Total waste managed (t) 62,452 65,866 66,848 1% Scope of reporting: The depots and stores of the Retail area in Portugal are included. Excluded are the Maxmat stores and stores located in shopping centres where the management of the respective waste is carried out by the shopping centre itself. 127 Recovery rate Variation 2009 2010 2011 2010-2011 Waste recovery rate 75.2% 76.9% 77.3% 0.4 p.p. Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Waste managed by type Quantity produced in 2011 (t) Batteries 80.4 Hazardous Computer Cons. 19.3 waste WEEE 1,740.1 Bulbs 11.5 Car batteries 77.1 Cardboard 31,741.1 Plastic 3,291.8 Wood 866.9 Polystyrene 232.0 Hangers 41.2 Non-hazardous WEEE´s 3,706.2 waste Food oils 9.8 Corks 37.3 Uniform 11.9 Coffee capsules 188.1 SUW 24,793.2 66,847.7 TOTAL Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal EN23: Number and total volume of major spillages Sonae considers that a spillage is only significant if it effects the external environment of the installations. This situation never came to pass and there were thus no major spillages deriving from our Retail activity. EN26: Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of products and services and the degree of impact reduction Sonae promotes various initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts associated with products and services. Worthy of special mention is the commitment to the production of renewable energies with the installation of microgeneration and minigeneration plants which in 2011 registered year-on-year growth of 42%. The acquisition of a more efficient fleet with a view to improving the vehicle pool which complies, as a minimum, with Standard Euro 4 that at year-end 2011 represented 5 p.p. growth on the previous year (Further information in chapter 3.1.3 – Environmental Responsibility). The range of sustainable products on offer to consumers is also a concern in the Retail area. Since 2009 Sonae has promoted the Fishing Sustainability Policy with the commitment not to commercialise endangered species and select those suppliers that promote the protection of marine biodiversity. This policy sets out specific objectives with a view to minimising the effects on the diversity of some species which are endangered or at risk of extinction. In 2011 Worten registered a reduction in Class A electrical and electronic equipment (EEE) (down 24 p.p.) and an increase in the higher classes of A+, A++, A+++ (up 19 p.p, 9 p.p and 1 p.p, respectively). As regards the sale of reusable bags, two types are commercialised, APED bags and Continente bags. In 2011 the APED bags recorded a sharp fall in sales related with the use of a new material which led to an increase in the price per unit. The Continente bags maintained their sales’ trend, recording growth of 27% on the 2010 figure (Further information in chapter 3.1.6 – Sustainable Products). Evolução de venda de sacos reutilizáveis 2009 2010 2011 APED bags 1,143,899 1,863,519 323,067 Continente bags 307,522 513,219 650,936 Total 1,451,421 2,376,738 974,003 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal EN28: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Sonae considers that an administrative fine is significant when the total monetary value is greater than or equal to 15,000€ as this corresponds to the minimum administrative fine for a serious environmental administrative offence (Law no.50 enacted on August 29th 2006, altered by Law no.89 enacted on August 31st 2009). In the Retail area there were 4 processes ending in 2011 which resulted in administrative fines of an insignificant value (< 15,000€). Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal 129 Social Indicators Work Practices and Decent Work Indicators (LA) LA1: Total labour by type of employment, employment contract and region 2010 2011 CONTRACT TYPE Open-ended contracts 25,623 27,679 Male 8,652 Female 19,027 Fixed-term contracts 14,012 9,034 Male 3,326 Female 5,708 EMPLOYMENT TYPE Full time 12,941 26,071 Male 9,136 Female 16,935 Part time 26,694 10,642 Male 2,842 Female 7,800 REGION Portugal 37,174 33,283 Male 10,467 Female 22,816 Spain 2,253 2,846 Male 1,265 Female 1,581 China 67 37 Male 17 Female 20 Brazil 141 530 Male 223 Female 307 Turkey 0 17 Male 6 Female 11 International Totals (no.) 2,461 3,430 TOTAL EMPLOYEES (no.) 39,635 36,713 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal LA2: Total number of employees and respective turnover rate, by age bracket, gender and region New admissions by gender and age bracket (2011) New admissions by gender and age bracket (2011) 0 > 65 years old 0 8 From 55 to 64 years old 5 92 From 45 to 54 years old 32 393 From 35 to 44 years old 223 6,054 From 18 to 34 years old 3,691 0 < 18 years old 0 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 Female Male Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Number of departures by gender and age bracket Number of departures by gender and age bracket (2011) 5 > 65 years old 3 48 From 55 to 64 years old 38 263 From 45 to 54 years old 85 1,000 From 35 to 44 years old 359 9,909 From 18 to 34 years old 5,885 0 < 18 years old 0 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 Female Male Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal 131 Number of departures of employees contracted in the reporting year by gender and age bracket Departure of employees contracted in 2011 by age bracket and gender 0 > 65 years old 0 4 From 55 to 64 years old 1 59 From 45 to 54 years old 11 242 From 35 to 44 years old 110 3,380 From 18 to 34 years old 2,145 0 < 18 years old 0 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 Female Male Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Rate of new admissions in the reporting year by gender and age bracket (2011) Rate of new admissions by gender and age bracket 0% > 65 years old 0% 2% From 55 to 64 years old 2% 3% From 45 to 54 years old 3% 6% From 35 to 44 years old 9% 47% From 18 to 34 years old 55% 0% < 18 years old 0% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% Female Male Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Rate of new admissions by gender and age bracket (2011) Male Female Total < 18 years old 0% 0% 0% From 18 to 34 years old 55% 47% 49% From 35 to 44 years old 9% 6% 7% From 45 to 54 years old 3% 3% 3% From 55 to 64 years old 2% 2% 2% ≥ 65 years old 0% 0% 0% TOTAL 38% 29% 32% Scope of reporting: Retail – Employees in Portugal (Includes Têxtil do Marco) Turnover rate by gender and age bracket (2011) Turnover rate by gender and age bracket (2011) 0% > 65 years old 0% 0.1% From 55 to 64 years old 0.1% 0.8% From 45 to 54 years old 0.3% 3.0% From 35 to 44 years old 1.1% 29.8% From 18 to 34 years old 17.7% 0 < 18 years old 0 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% Female Male Turnover rate by gender and age bracket (2011) Male Female Total < 18 years old 0% 0% 0% From 18 to 34 years old 18% 30% 48% From 35 to 44 years old 1% 3% 4,% From 45 to 54 years old 0% 1% 1% From 55 to 64 years old 0% 0% 0% ≥ 65 years old 0% 0% 0% TOTAL 19% 34% 53% Scope of reporting: Retail – Employees in Portugal (Includes Têxtil do Marco) The turnover rate is determined in accordance with the following calculation formula: No. of departures per age bracket and gender in 2011/ total no. of employees as at December 31st 2011. 133 LA4: Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 97% of employees in the Retail area of Sonae in Portugal (32,324 employees) are covered by a collective bargaining agreement instrument (I.R.C.T). LA5: Minimum prior notice timeframes with regard to operational changes, even if this procedure is mentioned in the collective bargaining agreements The notification timeframe for Retail area employees as regards the implementation of major operational changes is observed in accordance with the standards of the Employment Code and the Collective Bargaining Agreements applicable. It should be noted that the collective instruments do not foresee any special procedures in this regard in view of the legal standards in force. LA7: Injury rate, occupational illnesses, missed days and deaths related with work, by region Health and Safety Male Female TOTAL Hours workable by the employees as a whole (h) 20,297,416 41,831,262 62,128,678 Number of deaths (no.) 0 0 0 Number of accidents at the workplace NA NA 1,626 Number of accidents on journey home-work-home NA NA 121 TOTAL ACCIDENTS (no.) NA NA 1,747 ACCIDENT RATE NA NA 0.003% Number of days absence owing to occupational accident (d) NA NA 21,960 RATE OF DAYS MISSED OWING TO OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT NA NA 0.04% Number of days absence owing to occupational illnesses (d) 0 0 0 RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESSES 0% 0% 0% Total number of missed days (d) NA NA 21,960 RATE OF DAYS MISSED NA NA 0.04% Number of hours of absenteeism (h) 506,380 1,706,017 2,212,397 ABSENTEEISM RATE (%) 2% 4% 4% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal In the future Sonae intends to improve the collection of information so as to obtain response data to this indicator by gender. These rates are determined according to the following methodology: Accident Rate = (Number of accidents / Hours workable by total employees) x 100; Rate of days lost through occupational accident = (No. of days absent per occupational accident / Hours workable by total employees) x 100; Lost day rate = (No. of lost days / hours workable by total employees) x 100; Rate of occupational diseases = (No. of days absent for illnesses / Hours workable by total employees) x 100; Absenteeism rate = (Hours of absenteeism / Hours workable by total employees) x 100 LA8: Programmes in progress for education, training, advice, prevention and risk control to ensure assistance to employees, their families or the members of the community affected by serious illnesses Training actions for employees in 2011 No. participants First Aid 694 Medicine at Work 30 Healthy diet 148 Security Officers 75 Fire-fighting 862 Driving and use of machines/ equipment/ handling of loads 2,811 Automated external defibrillation 43 Ergonomics and safety in the office 71 Perishables' School (HSW) 29,858 Emergency plan drill 263 Labour legislation 55 OHSAS 18001 – Risks at the Workplace 93 Internal Safety Plan 13,459 Swine flu' risk – H1N1 26 Risks at the workplace 1,671 Noise at the workplace 233 Safety, hygiene and health at the Workplace 26,161 Raising awareness actions regarding hygiene and safety at the workplace 1,231 Passive drill (PSI questionnaires) 785 Use of hazardous products 228 Workflow for accidents at work 96 Total Participants 78,893 Total actions 75 Scope of reporting: Retail 135 Advisory actions for employees in 2011 No. participants Observations This action targeted the employees National Day for Prevention 34,000 of MC and SR where the clients and Safety at Work were involved This action targeted the employees European Week for Safety 34,000 of MC and SR where the clients and Health at Work were involved This action targeted the employees Women's Day March 8th 24,646 of MC and SR with the cooperation of a laboratory This action targeted the employees May Heart Month 34,000 of MC with the cooperation of the Portuguese Cardiology Foundation Nutrition Sessions 42 This action targeted the employees of Maia Structure Health Screening 98 This action targeted the employees of Maia and Matosinhos Structure This action targeted the employees of MC and Flu' 34,000 clients in partnership with the Directorate-General of Health. Pamphlets and posters were distributed Distribution of vaccines to all the pre-enrolled Flu' (vaccination) 6,026 employees of MC and SR This action targeted the employees of MC Breast Cancer 34,000 and clients in partnership with Laço. Pamphlets and posters were distributed This action targeted the employees Breast Cancer Clarification 64 of Structure of Maia; Matosinhos; Carnaxide Sessions and the Maia depot This action targeted the employees of MC and clients in partnership with the High Aids 34,000 Commissioner for Combating Aids. Pamphlets and posters were distributed This action targeted the employees as potential Bone Marrow 1,229 donors Counterweight – body weight control 8 Hiper Saudável Project 3 – Healthy Diet Total Participants 236,144 Total actions 12 Scope of reporting: Retail LA10: Average hours training per year per employee itemised by post category Evolution of number of employees by functional category Total employees by functional category 6,856 Trainees/apprentices 11,152 177 Unqualified professionals 183 1,122 Semi-qualified professionals 1,083 21,956 Highly qualified professionals 21,663 2,549 Middle management 2,489 131 Senior management 152 492 Heads/Managers 452 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 2011 2010 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Number of employees by functional category and gender (2011) Total employees by functional category and gender(2011) 4,464 Trainees/apprentices 2,392 69 Unqualified professionals 108 866 Semi-qualified professionals 256 15,791 Highly qualified professionals 6,165 1,393 Middle management 1,156 88 Senior management 43 145 Heads/Managers 347 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 Female Male Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal 137 Evolution of number of hours training by functional category Total hours training by functional category 363,529 Trainees/apprentices 554,980 7,841 Unqualified professionals 7,189 27,141 Semi-qualified professionals 37,704 672,171 Highly qualified professionals 698,855 99,403 Middle management 85,242 3,630 Senior management 5,623 Heads/Managers 16,577 14,713 0 150,000 300,000 450,000 600,000 2011 2010 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Note: Accruing to the latter are 124,852 hours of training given by Sonae SR Spain to a total of 2,618 employees on December 31st). Total hours training by professional category and gender (2011) Total hours training by functional category and gender (2011) 221,379 Trainees/apprentices 142,150 2,880 Unqualified professionals 4,690 20,195 Semi-qualified professionals 6,947 471,200 Highly qualified professionals 200,971 53,569 Middle management 45,835 2,721 Senior management 909 3,507 Heads/Managers 13,071 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 Female Male Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal Average hours training by functional category and gender (2011) Male Female Total Heads/Managers 38 24 34 Senior management 21 31 28 Middle management 40 38 39 Highly qualified professionals 33 30 31 Semi-qualified professionals 27 23 24 Unqualified professionals 46 42 44 Trainees/apprentices 59 50 53 TOTAL 40 34 36 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal LA11: Programmes for skills management and on-the-job learning which support the continued employability of employees and for career management Evolution of skills and on-the-job management programmes of employees No. of actions Programmes 2010 2011 Shopping Centres 5 72 Leadership Academy 119 Transversal Skills Academy 160 Management Academy 2 Ongoing improvement/Kaizen 26,030 16,922 Perishables School 16,533 16,266 Sales' School 2,246 6,603 Health School 20 Training in Processes/Systems (Workflows, SAP, Retek, Supply Chain, Stock break) 748 471 Technical training for suppliers/products 719 611 Environmental Management 324 291 Hygiene, Health and Safety at the Workplace 9,565 8,033 Total 56,170 49,570 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal LA12: Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance analyses and career development The performance appraisal process is applicable to 100% of Sonae employees (Portugal). In 2011 it was not possible to verify the actual proportion of appraisals carried out. 139 LA13: Composition of company governing bodies and list of employees by category in accordance with gender, age bracket, minorities and other diversity indicators Number of employees by professional category, age bracket and gender (2011) Age bracket Male Female Total < 18 years old 0 0 0 From 18 to 34 years old 23 10 33 Heads/ From 35 to 44 years old 162 75 237 Managers From 45 to 54 years old 120 46 166 From 55 to 64 years old 41 14 55 ≥ 65 years old 1 0 1 TOTAL 347 145 492 < 18 years old 0 0 0 From 18 to 34 years old 19 52 71 From 35 to 44 years old 20 31 51 Senior management From 45 to 54 years old 3 5 8 From 55 to 64 years old 1 0 1 ≥ 65 years old 0 0 0 TOTAL 43 88 131 < 18 years old 0 0 0 From 18 to 34 years old 360 499 859 From 35 to 44 years old 521 666 1,187 Middle From 45 to 54 years old 232 201 433 management From 55 to 64 years old 41 26 67 ≥ 65 years old 2 1 3 TOTAL 1,156 1,393 2,549 < 18 years old 0 0 0 From 18 to 34 years old 3,843 7,724 11,567 Highly qualified From 35 to 44 years old 1,599 5,530 7,129 and qualified From 45 to 54 years old 602 2,273 2,875 professionals From 55 to 64 years old 117 264 381 ≥ 65 years old 4 0 4 TOTAL 6,165 15,791 21,956 < 18 years old 0 0 0 From 18 to 34 years old 170 611 781 From 35 to 44 years old 53 180 233 Semiqualified From 45 to 54 years old 27 66 93 professionals From 55 to 64 years old 6 9 15 ≥ 65 years old 0 0 0 TOTAL 256 866 1,122 < 18 years old 0 0 0 From 18 to 34 years old 36 19 55 From 35 to 44 years old 52 26 78 Unqualified professionals From 45 to 54 years old 18 18 36 From 55 to 64 years old 2 6 8 ≥ 65 years old 0 0 0 TOTAL 108 69 177 < 18 years old 0 0 0 From 18 to 34 years old 2,272 4,074 6,346 Trainees/ From 35 to 44 years old 102 323 425 Apprentices From 45 to 54 years old 18 59 77 From 55 to 64 years olds 0 8 8 ≥ 65 years old 0 0 0 TOTAL 2,392 4,464 6,856 Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal LA14: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of men to women to men by employee category Evolution of ratio of basic salary by professional category and by gender 2010 2011 Ratio M/H Ratio M/H Heads/Managers 0.81 0.79 Senior management 1.00 0.90 Middle management 0.94 0.91 Highly qualified and qualified professionals 0.99 0.99 Semiqualified professionals 0.90 0.87 Unqualified professionals 0.91 0.88 Trainees/Apprentices 0.99 0.99 TOTAL Scope of reporting: Retail (includes Têxtil do Marco) 0.90 0.79 Average remuneration by functional category and gender (2011) Ratio M/H Heads/Managers 0.78 Senior management 0.91 Middle management 2.07 Highly qualified and qualified professionals 0.41 Semi-qualified professionals 0.85 Unqualified professionals 1.65 Trainees/Apprentices 1.03 TOTAL 0.77 Scope of reporting: Retail (includes Têxtil do Marco) The reported amounts assume the basic monthly salary and the total monthly remuneration to be the same for a part-time or permanent employee. To draw the aforementioned comparison, the basic monthly salary and monthly remuneration of the employees working part-time was converted to Full-Time Equivalent. 141 LA15: Rates of Return and Retention after Paternity Leave Rates of usufruct return and retention after paternity leave (2011) Male Female Total Number of employees entitled to paternity leave (no.) 10,467 22,816 33,283 Number of employees who have enjoyed paternity leave (no.) 491 1,354 1,845 Number of employees who returned to work after completing paternity leave (no.) 490 1,342 1,832 Number of employees who returned to work after completing paternity leave and who are still 480 1,316 1,796 at the Company 12 months later (no.) USUFRUCT RATE (%) 5% 6% 6% RETURN RATE (%) 100% 99% 99% RETENTION RATE (%) 96% 99% 98% Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal The rate of retention is determined in accordance with the following calculation formula: Number of employees who in 2011 returned to work after completing paternity leave and who are still at the Company 12 months later / Number of employees who enjoyed paternity leave in 2010. The following data from 2010 was used to calculate the retention rate for 2011: 2010 Male Female Total Number of employees who have enjoyed 502 1,334 1,836 paternity leave (no.) Human Rights’ Indicators (HR) HR1: Percentage and total number of significant investment contracts which include clauses relating to human rights or which have been submitted to analysis relating to human rights The supply contracts consider a clause of obligation by the supplier stating it will “Comply with all the standards and legislation applicable to the work provided by minors, human rights and prohibition of discrimination of its employees, whatever the reason”. This clause is included in the following Retail area contracts: general supply contract, healthrelated supply contract, consumables supply contract, supply contract for fish market, wholesaler supplier brand contract and in the other standard supply contracts in systems. HR2: Percentage of the main suppliers and companies contracted which were submitted to evaluations regarding human rights and the measures taken Number of contracts which include human rights’ clauses Brand 2010 2011 Total no. of contracts 5,072 5,047 Number of contracts which include human rights' clauses 507 235 Percentage of contracts which include human rights' clauses 10% 5% HR3: Total no. of employees who have received formal training in the policies and procedures of the organisation relating to human rights’ issues In 2011 Retail area employees who have not received formal training in the policies and procedures of the organisation relating to human rights’ issues. HR4: Total number of cases of discrimination and actions taken In 2011, at Sonae there were no cases of corruption in the organisation. HR5: Cases in which there is a significant risk of impediment to free exercising of the freedom of association and entering into collective bargaining agreements, and measures which contribute to its elimination. At Sonae there are no operations involving risk in the context of the exercising of the freedom of association and the implementation of collective bargaining agreements. See LA4. HR6: Cases in which there is a major risk of the occurrence of child labour and measures which contribute to its elimination At Sonae there is no risk of the existence of child labour. As a rule, minors are not employed. Minors aged between 16 and 18 years are admitted by way of exception and always in compliance with the legal requirements. HR7: Cases in which there is a significant risk of the occurrence of forced labour or slave labour and measures which contribute to their elimination. There is no forced labour. Value chain risks are minimised by the existing control processes HR11: Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms In 2011 Sonae did not receive any complaints related with human rights. Scope of reporting: Retail – Portugal 143 Social Indicators (SO) SO1: Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs There are numerous times when the impacts and benefits of activity are measured for communities. From the time of installation of a new unit, it is necessary to proceed with all contacts with local authorities and entities to obtain the permits and licenses and ensure the conditions, so as to cause a minimum negative impact on the communities. During the operation numerous initiatives are undertaken to support the communities at a central level and through each brand, promoting well-being and social cohesion in the communities. These are very often carried out in partnership with local entities. Information about these initiatives and examples will be described in the report. SO2: Percentage and total number of business units which are subject to the analysis of corruption risks In its risk management process Sonae implements the international methodology Enterprise Risk Management – Integrated Framework (COSO), which allows the identification of the different types of risks and threats to business development both strategically and operationally. As the corruption risk has not been identified as a priority risk for business, no appraisals were carried out in this regard. The Code of Conduct and Ethics in the Retail area also takes this risk into account and no case has been reported. For further information about the risk management process – vide chapter about risk management and internal audit. SO3: Percentage of employees who have carried out training in the anticorruption policies and practices of the organisation Although the corruption risk is not regarded as a priority risk for the business, in 2011 7,586 employees, not managers, received training related with anticorruption policies or procedures. SO4: Measures taken in response to corruption cases In 2011 no corruption cases occurred at Sonae meaning that there was no need to implement measures to respond to this type of situation. SO5: Positions as regards public policies and participation in the drawing up of public policies and in pressure groups Sonae takes part in various associations through which a position is assumed vis-à-vis a series of themes which are capable of influencing the public policies. Similarly to last year, the matter of the opening of hypermarkets on Sundays remains. Worthy of special mention is the participation of Sonae in the Global Enterprise Project of ERT (European Round Table) /JA (Junior Achievement) The Global Enterprise Project is an organisation which brings together the main European business leaders and one of the great benefits of participation in this organisation is the capacity to influence education so as to incorporate the overall business context and entrepreneurialism in school CVs. (for further information about this participation, vide chapter relating to highlights 2011). SO8: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations In 2011 administrative fines for breaching timetable setting rules stood at 800€. Scope of reporting: Retail Product Responsibility Indicators (PR) PR1: Life cycle stages of products and services in which health and safety impacts are assessed with a view to making improvements, as well as the percentage of the main product and service categories subject to said procedures We bear in mind the impacts on health and the safety of the Private Label products (food, sports, textile at the various stages of their product life cycle. For example, in terms of electronic products, we are carrying out the development of the image of the product, the packaging and the manual vis-à-vis the manufacturer. The manufacturing process for this product type is monitored by means of various inspections. In terms of food, we carry out product research and development, for example, through the optimisation of its nutritional profile. Supplier audits by area (2011) 2011 Food Textile Sport Electronics Total no. of suppliers 789 380 349 579 National 415 133 60 14 Foreign 374 247 289 565 Total no. of audited suppliers 571 11 0 7 National 292 1 0 Foreign 279 10 7 Total percentage of audited suppliers (%) 72.4% 2.9% 1.2% Percentage of national audited suppliers (%) 70.4% 0.8% 0.0% Percentage of foreign audited suppliers (%) 74.6% 4.0% 1.2% Scope of reporting: Retail Number of analyses of Private Label products (2011) 2011 Food Textile Sport Electronics Total 510,006 85,000 4,100 536 In internal laboratories 500,000 56,000 80 In external laboratories 10,006 29,000 4,020 Scope of reporting: Retail Product approval involves the obligation to submit proof of compliance with the European Standards in force for the product in addition to compliance with brand Tender Specifications. The production process is accompanied by internal technicians and the different production stages are validated from the Proto sample, the pre-production sample to the Golden sample. In addition to the technical support with local entities carrying out inspections of the product at the factories. In the textile area all brand products controlled by accredited laboratories are tested (CITEVE and SGS). 145 PR5: Procedures related with Customer satisfaction, including the results of research which measure Customer satisfaction Evolution of the number of suggestions and complaints lodged by brand 2009 2010 2011 Continente 43,839 41,314 63,546 Continente modelo 14,075 13,971 Continente bom dia 443 378 Modalfa 2,397 3,929 5,472 Zippy 96 456 3,736 Worten 17,464 20,023 22,850 Vobis 830 827 817 Sport Zone 372 563 271 Well’s 44 510 3,233 Bom Bocado 98 208 346 Book,it 6 24 40 Loop 12 24 17 Others 257 Total 79,676 82,227 100,585 Scope of reporting: Retail PR6: Programmes involving compliance with the laws, standards and voluntary codes related with marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship Since 2009 Sonae has subscribed to the Food Industry Commitments regarding Food, Physical Activity and Health relating to the advertising and marketing communications aimed at children. These commitments, developed by FIPA – the Portuguese Agro-Food Industry Federation and by APAN – the Portuguese Advertisers’ Association set out to alter the type of beverages and foodstuffs advertised on TV, in publications and on the internet which are aimed at the under-12’s. PR9: Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations Total Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision 103 and use of products and services (no.) Total monetary value of significant fines (€) 219,538 € Table Global Reporting Initiative Index UN GLOBAL GRI INDICATOR VERIFICATION LOCATION COMPACT STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors about the 1.1 Page 8 relevance of Sustainability for the organisation and its strategy Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities related with 1.2 Pages 22-28 company activity ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Denomination of reporting organisation Page 13 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services Pages 13 and 14 Operational structure of the organisation and main divisions, 2.3 Pages 13-17; 36-38 operators, subsidiaries and joint ventures Sonae, SGPS. SA has its head offices at Lugar 2.4 Location of organisation's head offices de Espido, Via Norte Maia-Portugal Number of countries where the organization operates, and names 2.5 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically Pages 13-17 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Sonae, SGPS.SA Page 13 2.6 Type and legal nature of ownership Pages 15-17 2.7 Markets covered 2.8 Size of reporting organisation Pages 13-17; 21-22 Main alterations which have occurred during the period covered Pages 13-17 2.9 by the report relating to the size, organisational structure or shareholder structure 2.10 Awards received during the period the report refers to Pages 29-32 REPORT PARAMETERS Report Profile Page 6 3.1 Period covered for the information submitted in the report Page6 3.2 Date of the last report published Page 6 3.3 Report publication cycle Page 7 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Scope and Limits of the Report Pages 6; 53 3.5 Process to define the content of the report 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, joint ventures) Page 6 147 UN GLOBAL GRI INDICATOR VERIFICATION LOCATION COMPACT 3.7 Specific limitations to the scope and limits of the report Pages 6, 118-146 Base for drawing up the report as regards joint ventures, subsidiaries, rented premises, operations assigned and external services and other 3.8 Page 6 entities capable of significantly affecting the comparison between different periods and/or organisations Data measurement techniques and the bases for calculation, including 3.9 the theories and techniques underlying the estimates applied to the Pages 6; 118-146 compiling of indicators and other information contained in the report Explanation of the effect of any reworkings of information to be found 3.10 Pages 118-146 in previous reports and the reasons for said reworkings Significant alterations with regard to previous reports in the context, 3.11 Pages 118-146 limit or measurement methods applied GRI Content Index 3.12 GRI table content index GRI Table Page 147-157 Verification Current policy and practice with regard to the search for 3.13 an independent reliability assurance process which monitors Pages 6, 116 the Sustainability Report GOVERNANCE Governance Governance structure of the organisation, including commissions Pages 36-38 subordinated to the most hierarchically superior governance body 4.1 Report on Corporate with responsibility for specific tasks such as the definition of the Governance – Pages 20-21 strategy or supervision of the organisation Pages36-38 4.2 Role of the Chairman Report on Corporate Governance – Pages 20-21 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body Report on Corporate 4.3 is also an executive officer Governance – Page 22 Mechanisms which allow shareholders and employees to convey 4.4 recommendations or guidelines to the hierarchically higher Pages 36-38; 47; 52 governance body Relationship between the remuneration of the members of the Report on Corporate hierarchically higher governance body, senior managers and executives 4.5 Governance (including decision-making agreements) and the performance of the Pages 42-44; 53 organisation (including the social and environmental performance) Pages 43-44 Report on Corporate Governance – Pages 68-69 The Code of Conduct of Sonae demonstrates the organisational Processes at the disposal of the hierarchically higher governance 4.6 commitment to avoid body to avoid the occurrence of conflicts of interest the occurrence of conflicts of interest. For further information consult the Code of Conduct via the address: http://www.sonae.pt/pt/ investidores/governo-dasociedade/ Process for the determination of the qualifications and competences Report on Corporate required of the members of the hierarchically higher governance body 4.7 Governance 2010 to define the organisation's strategy with regard to issues related with Pages 22; 75-88 economic, environmental and social performance Internal development of declarations of principles or mission, codes of conduct and principles considered relevant for 4.8 Principles 1 to 10 Pages 12; 33; 43-44 the economic, environmental and social performance, as well as the implementation stage Processes of the hierarchically higher Governance body to supervise the way in which the organisation carries out the identification and management of the economic, environmental and social performance, Management Report – 4.9 Principles 1 to 10 risk identification and management and relevant opportunities as well Page 45 as adherence to or compliance with internationally accepted standards, codes of conduct and principles Processes for performance appraisal of the hierarchically higher Management Report – 4.10 governance body, particularly with regard to economic, environmental Page 45 and social performance COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 Precautionary principle of the organisation Principle 7 Pages 39-41; 60-61 Letters, principles and other initiatives developed externally of an 4.12 environmental, economic and social nature which the organisation Principles 1 to 10 Págs 19; 33 subscribes to or defends Major participation in associations and/or national/international 4.13 organisations Page 33 RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS List of groups which constitute the stakeholders involved 4.14 Page 51 by the organisation Basis for identification and selection of the stakeholders 4.15 Page 53 to be involved Approaches used to involve the stakeholders, including 4.16 the frequency of the involvement, by type and by group, Page 51 of the stakeholders Main issues and concerns identified by means of the involvement of 4.17 the stakeholders and the measures adopted by the organisation in the Pages 53-55 processing thereof, namely through the reports ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Pages 12; 20-25; Forms of Management 45-47; 63; 88-94 UN GLOBAL GRI INDICATOR VERIFICATION LOCATION COMPACT ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Essential EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Pages 25; 118 Essential Financial implications and other risks and opportunities EC2 Principle 7 Page 66 for the organisation’s activities owing to climate changes 149 Essential Essential Coverage of obligations relating to the benefits’ plan defined by EC3 Page 118 the organisation EC4 Major financial support received from the government Pages 25; 118 ASPECT: PRESENCE ON THE MARKET Complementary Ratio between the lowest salary and the minimum local salary EC5 Principle 1 Not available at the important operating units Essential Policies, practices and proportion of costs with local suppliers EC6 Pages 77-79, 118 at important operating units Local contracting procedures and proportion of top Essential EC7 management posts taken up by individuals from the local Principle 6 Page 118 community at the most important operating units. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Development and impact of investments in infrastructures Essential EC8 and services which are essentially aimed at the public benefit Pages 48; 119 through commercial involvement in kind or pro bono Complementary Description and analysis of the most significant Indirect EC9 Pages 85-87 Economic Impacts, including their extent ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Pages 12; 27; 45-47; Forms of Management 65-73; 88-94 UN GLOBAL GRI INDICATOR VERIFICATION LOCATION COMPACT ASPECT: MATERIALS Essential EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 Page 119 Essential EN2 Percentage of materials used which derive from recycling Principles 8 and 9 Page 119 ASPECT: ENERGY Essential Essential EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Principle 8 Pages 66, 119-120 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Principle 8 Pages 67-68; 121-122 Complementary Complementary Complementary Total energy saving due to improvements to upkeep EN5 Principles 8 and 9 Pages 67-71 and efficiency Initiatives to provide products and services based on efficiency EN6 or renewable energies and reductions in energy consumption Principles 8 and 9 Pages 82-84 as a result of said initiatives Initiatives to reduce the indirect consumption of energy EN7 Principles 8 and 9 Pages 67-71 and the reductions achieved ASPECT: WATER Complementary Complementary Essential EN8 Total water consumption by source Principle 8 Pages 71, 122 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by water consumption Principle 8 Not available EN10 Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water Principles 8 and 9 Page 122 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY Location and size of the sites belonging to, rented or Essential EN11 administered by the organisation in protected areas or with Principle 8 Page 123 a high value for biodiversity or adjoining them Description of the significant impacts of activities, products Essential EN12 or services on biodiversity and protected areas and on the Principle 8 Pages 80-81; 123 areas and high biodiversity index outside protected areas Complementary Complementary Complementary EN13 Protected or recovered habitats Principle 8 Page 123 Current and future strategies and programmes EN14 Principle 8 Pages 80-81 for the management of impacts on biodiversity Number of species on the IUCN red list and on the national list EN15 for conservation of species with habitats in areas affected by Principle 8 Not available operations itemised by extinction risk level ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Essential Total direct and indirect emissions of gases with a greenhouse EN16 Principle 8 Pages 68-69; 123-124 effect by weight 151 Essential EN17 Other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases Principle 8 Pages 70; 124-125 Complementary Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as well EN18 Principles 7 to 9 Pages 67-70 as the reductions achieved Essential EN19 Emissions of ozone-layer destroying substances by weight Principle 8 Pages 71; 125 Complementary Complementary Essential Essential Essential Essential NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric emissions by type EN20 Principle 8 Page 126 and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Principle 8 Pages 72; 127 EN22 Total quantity of waste by disposal method and type Principle 8 Pages 72-73; 127-128 EN23 Number and total volume of major spillages Principle 8 Page 129 Weight of waste transported, imported, exported or treated, regarded as hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 Principle 8 Not available – Annexes I, II, III and VIII and the percentage of waste transported by ship internationally Size, protection statute and value for biodiversity of the water EN25 resources and respective habitats significantly affected by Principle 8 Not available discharges of water and surface runoff ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Essential Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of products and Pages 65-73; 83-85; 129 EN26 Principles 7 to 9 services and the degree of impact reduction Essential Percentage recovered of products sold and respective packaging EN27 Principles 8 to 9 Not applicable by category ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEssential EN28 monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental Principle 8 Page 129 laws and regulations. ASPECT: TRANSPORT Complementary Significant environmental impact resulting from the transport EN29 of products and other goods or raw materials used in the Principle 8 Pages 69-70 organisation operations as well as the transport of employees ASPECT: GENERAL Complementary Total costs and investments defrayed on environmental EN30 Principles 7 to 9 Not available protection by type LABOUR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Pages 12; 20; 28; 42-47; Forms of Management 62-65; 88-94 UN GLOBAL LOCATION GRI INDICATOR VERIFICATION COMPACT ASPETO: EMPREGO Essential Total labour by type of employment, employment contract LA1 Pages 62, 130 and region Essential Total number of employees and respective turnover rate, LA2 Principle 6 Pages 131-133 by age bracket, gender and region Complementary Benefits assured to full-time employees which are not granted LA3 Not available to temporary or part time employees ASPECT: RELATIONS BETWEEN EMPLOYEES AND THE GOVERNANCE Essential Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4 Principles 1 and 3 Page 134 agreements Minimum prior notification timeframes with regard to operational Essential LA5 changes including when this procedure is mentioned in collective Principle 3 Page 134 bargaining agreements ASPECT: HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK Essential Complementary Percentage of total labour represented on formal committees for health and safety which help to ensure LA6 Principle 1 Not available monitoring and advice about occupational health and safety programmes Injury rate, occupational illnesses, missed days and deaths related LA7 Principle 1 Page 134 with work, by region and gender Programmes in progress for education, training, advice, prevention Essential LA8 and risk control to ensure assistance to employees, their families Principle 1 Pages 135-136 or the members of the community affected by serious illnesses Complementary Topics related with health and safety covered by formal LA9 Principle 1 Not available agreements with trade unions ASPECT: TRAINING Complementary Complementary Essential Average hours training per year per employee itemised by post LA10 Pages 62; 137-139 category. Programmes for skills' management and on-the-job management LA11 learning which support the continuity of employability of Pages 62-63; 139 employees and for career management Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance LA12 Pages 62; 139 analyses and career development 153 ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITIES Composition of company governing bodies and list Essential LA13 of employees by category in accordance with gender, Principles 1 to 6 Page 140 age bracket, minorities and other diversity indicators Essential Essential Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of men to women LA14 Principles 1 to 6 Page 141 to men by employee category LA15 Rates of Return and Retention after Paternity Leave Page 142 HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Forms of Management Pages 12; 20; 77-79; 88-94 GRI INDICATOR VERIFICATION UN GLOBAL LOCATION COMPACT ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PURCHASING PROCESSES’ PRACTICES Percentage and total number of significant investment Essential contracts which include clauses relating to human HR1 Principles 1 and 6 Page 142 rights or which were submitted to analysis regarding human rights Percentage of main suppliers and contracted companies Essential HR2 which were submitted to appraisals relating to human rights Principles 1 and 6 Page 143 and measures taken Complementary Total number of hours training in policies and procedures relating to aspects of human rights relevant to operations, HR3 Principles 1 and 6 Page 143 including the percentage of employees that have benefitted from training ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION Essential HR4 Total number of cases of discrimination and actions taken Principles 1, 2 and 6 Page 143 ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Cases in which there is a significant risk of impediment Essential to free exercising of the freedom of association HR5 Principles 1 and 3 Page 143 and entering into collective bargaining agreements, and measures which contribute to their elimination. ASPECT: CHILD LABOUR Cases in which there is a major risk of the occurrence Essential HR6 of child labour and measures which contribute Principles 1, 2 and 5 Page 143 to its elimination ASPECT: FORCED LABOUR AND SIMILAR TO SLAVE LABOUR Cases in which there is a significant risk of the occurrence Essential HR7 of forced labour or slave labour and measures which contribute Principles 1.2 and 4 Page 143 to their elimination. ASPECT: SAFETY PRACTICES Complementary Percentage of safety staff submitted to training in the policies HR8 or procedures of the organisation relating to human rights Principles 1 and 2 Not available and which are relevant to operations ASPECT: RIGHTS OF NATIVE PEOPLES Complementary Total number of incidents which involve the breach of rights HR9 Principles 1 and 2 Not available of native peoples and actions taken ASPECT: APPRAISAL Essential HR10 Operations taken to the appraisals of human rights Principles 1 to 7 Pages 77-79 ASPECT: REMEDIATION Essential Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed HR11 Principles 1 to 7 Page 143 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 155 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Pages 12; 20; 23; 25; 28; Formas de Gestão 48-50; 85-94 UN GLOBAL GRI INDICATOR VERIFICATION LOCATION COMPACT ASPECT: COMMUNITY Percentage of operations with implemented local Essential SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, Page 144 and development programs ASPECT: CORRUPTION Essential Essential Essential Percentage and total number of business units which are SO2 Princípio 10 Pages 60-61; 144 subject to the analysis of corruption risks Percentage of employees who have carried out training SO3 Princípio 10 Page 144 in the anticorruption policies and practices of the organisation SO4 Measures taken in response to corruption cases Princípio 10 Page 144 ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICIES Complementary Essential Positions as regards public policies and participation SO5 Princípio 1 a 10 Page 144 in the drawing up of public policies and in pressure groups Total value of the financial contributions or contributions SO6 in kind to political parties, politicians or related institutions, Princípio 10 Not available itemised by country ASPECT: UNFAIR COMPETITION Complementary Total number of court actions owing to unfair competition, Not available SO7 antitrust and monopolistic practices as well as their results ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number Essential SO8 of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws Page 144 and regulations Essential Pages 26; 42; 66; 77-81; SO9 Impact on local communities 83-87 Essential Pages 39-42; 48-50; 60-61; SO10 Measures to mitigate the impacts on local communities 67-77; 79-87 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRODUCT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Pages 12; 20; 73-77; 80-83; Forms of Management 85; 88-94 UN GLOBAL GRI INDICATOR VERIFICATION LOCATION COMPACT ASPECT: CLIENT HEALTH AND SAFETY Stages of product and service life cycles in which the impacts on health and safety are assessed with Essential PR1 a view to making improvements as well as the percentage Pages 61; 73-79; 82-83; 145 of the main product and service categories subject to said procedures Complementary Total number of incidents deriving from non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes relating to impacts on health PR2 Not available and safety of products and services during the respective life cycle, itemised by type of result ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES LABELLING Type of information about products and services required Essential PR3 by regulations and the percentage of significant products Principle 8 Pages 74; 76; 82-83 and services subject to said requirements Complementary Complementary Total number of incidents deriving from non-compliance with PR4 regulations and voluntary codes relating to information and Principle 8 Not available labelling of products and services, itemised by type of result Procedures related with Customer satisfaction, including PR5 Page 52-53; 146 the results of research which measures Customer satisfaction ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Programmes involving compliance with the laws, standards Essential PR6 and voluntary codes related with marketing communications, Page 146 including advertising, promotion and sponsorship Complementary Total number of incidents deriving from non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes relating to marketing PR7 Not available communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, itemised by type of result ASPECT: CLIENT PRIVACY Complementary Total number of complaints lodged regarding the breach PR8 Princípio 1 Not available of client privacy ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance Essential PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use Page 146 of products and services 157 Climate Change and Corporate Management Index. The ACGE index is drawn up by Euronatura and aims to assess ACGE the performance of a series of Portuguese companies in different fields of activity with regard to their capacity to meet the challenges of climate alterations and a low carbon economy. Climate change Variation in the climate over time in terms of planet Earth. APCC Portuguese Contact Centers’ Association APECOM Portuguese Association of Communication and Public Relations. APED Portuguese Association of Distribution Companies. Business Council for Sustainable Development. This is an organisation which carries out ongoing work to get BCSD Portugal sustainability onto organisations’ agendas. Benchmark Methodological process to analyse, the most effective ideas and procedures which lead to a better performance. This is certification ensures quality and comfort, durability and resistance in footwear types which only use Biocalce materials that don’t contain substances toxic to human beings and to the environment. “Variability among living organisms of all origins (...); it includes the diversity within each species, between species Biodiversity and of ecosystems” (Source: Convention on Biological Diversity). Building Research Establishment Limited – This is an independent entity which evaluates the sustainable BRE Group characteristics of products and services. Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method – Certification which defines the standard BREEAM for the best practices as regards sustainable design and it has become the measurement used to describe the environmental performance of buildings. Proof of purchase at Lot. CCL sets out to contribute to the qualitative and quantitative enhancement of fish CCL traded on Portuguese lots. Carbon Disclosure Project –­this is an independent non-profit organisation which has developed the biggest world data base in terms of corporate information related with climate change. Over 3,000 organisations in around CDP 60 countries measure and disclose data about their greenhouse gas emissions, water management and climate change strategies through the CDP, thereby allowing reduction goals to be defined and improvements to be made in performance. Oeko-Tex Certification International certification for raw, semi-finished and finished textile products at all stages of the process. Cogeneration Production in a single process simultaneously involving thermal and electric energy. CO2e Carbon dioxide Equivalent– reference unit which allows the quantification of all greenhouse gases. Fuel Anything liable to go into combustion. Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission – this is a private, non-profit making COSO organisation devoted to improving financial reports and studying the reasons why frauds occur in financial reports. CRT Cathode Ray Tube. Development which satisfies the needs of the present without comprising the capacity of future generations Sustainable Development to meet their own needs. Final destination at the end Final destination (elimination or recovery) of the product after its use by the customer, carried out by authorised of the useful life of products entities. European Union Directive regarding environmental responsibility in terms of preventing and repairing EC European Directive environmental damages. European Union Directive regarding hazardous substances – Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation REACH European Directive and Restriction of Chemical Substances. European Union Directive regarding the restriction of hazardous substances which forbids certain hazardous RoHS Directive substances from being used in product manufacturing processes. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. ERT European Round Table–Organisation which brings together the main European business leaders. EWRM Enterprise Wide Risk Management–Business risk management programmes . Forest Stewardship Council – FCS’ seal on a product ensures its origin from responsibly managed forests, FCS bearing in mind the needs of present and future generations. Coolant fluid Fluid which absorbs the heat of a substance from the environment to be cooled. Set of gases which retain at the Earth’s surface the heat from solar radiation. The increase in greenhouse gases Greenhouse Gases (GHG) in the atmosphere have brought about the increase in temperature. GB Gigabyte – information measurement unit Global Enterprise Project – Initiative which sets out to promote entrepreneurialism amongst secondary school GEP students throughout Europe GJ Gigajoule – energy measurement unit The main purpose of the Global Compact is to incentivise the alignment of business policies and practices United Nations Global with the values and objectives which are applicably internationally and universally agreed upon. These main Compact values have been separated into ten key principles in the fields of “Human Rights”, “Work”, “Environment” and “Anti-Corruption”. GRI (Global Reporting The GRI sets out to draw up guidelines which help to achieve the standardisation and transparency of the Initiative) reporting worldwide of socially responsible business activities. GWh Gigawatt – energy measurement unit ISO (International A non-governmental organisation mainly involved with the standardisation of goods and services using standards Organization for so as to continuously promote product quality. Standardization) kWh Kilowatt hourenergy measurement unit kWp Kilowatt-peak – The Kilowatt-peak is an energy power measurement, usually associated with photovoltaic cells. LCD Liquid crystal display. LED Light-emitting diode. MSC Certified Sustainable Seafood–a certification programme which rewards and recognises sustainable fishing. MWh Megawatt hour – energy measurement unit These are European emission standards. In Europe all new car models are subject to various technical tests which EuroStandards are legally compulsory so as to ensure a contribution to a cleaner environment by reducing pollution levels. Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series – OHSAS 18001 is a standard concerning the Risks at the Workplace OHSAS Prevention Management developed by an international consortium of standardisation and certification entities. 159 Programme for Endorsement of Forest Certification – a voluntary forest certification programme. The PEFC seal PEFC ensures us of a product originating from forests with sustainable management. This term refers to the amount of land and water required to sustain present generations, bearing in mind Ecological Footprint all the material and energy resources spent by a given population. Retail Environmental Action Plan–This is an environmental action plan which identifies individual commitments REAP in this area of those retail companies that sign up. Recycling Reusing materials to deploy them in new components. WEEE Waste electrical and electronic equipment. Waste Substances or objects for which the holder has no further use and desires to get rid of. When companies voluntarily incorporate social and environmental commitments into their operations and into Social Responsibility their interaction with the parties concerned (Source: European Commission, Green Book: Promoting a European framework for the corporate social responsibility of companies). SUW Solid Urban Waste. Stakeholder These are people or groups of people who affect or are affected by the targets of a given organisation. Société Générale de Surveillance S.A is the largest organisation in the world in the field of inspection, verification, SGS analysis and certification. With over 64000 employees SGS runs a network with more than 1250 offices and laboratories worldwide. tCO2 e Tonne Carbon Dioxide Equivalent. DRV Daily Reference Values WBCSD (World Business This is a leading organisation in terms of tackling Sustainable Development themes. It is a major platform Council for Sustainable for sustainability in terms of sharing information, experiences and better practices. Development) This non-profit making organisation annually promotes meetings where urgent issues such as health World Economic Forum and the environment are discussed. This is a formal invitation to action and a vehicle for promoting collaboration in the Safety at work area. World Safety Declaration It is a commitment by global industry to the development of ideas which can be shared and adopted worldwide by companies. Credits Sonae, SGPS, SA Lugar do Espido, Via Norte 4470-909 Maia – Portugal Consultants: PricewaterhouseCoopers Telef: +351 220 104 000 Graphic Design: Ivity Fax: +351 229 404 634 Published: july 2012 161
