Communication on Progress 2012 Report STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT It gives me immense pleasure to submit Hinopak’s fifth comprehensive communication on progress report for the year 2011/12. Through this report we once again endorse Hinopak’s commitment towards the UNGC principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption. This five year journey of living the UN Global Compact principles has been remarkable in terms of the improvement which we have been able to internalize effectively into our business processes and live them through our business practices. This is evident from various initiatives quoted in the report. I am also pleased to inform that this year’s COP has been reported on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 framework disclosing outcomes and results taking place during the reporting period. For next year we are aiming to incorporate more GRI performance indicators to make our communication on progress report more comprehensive and transparent. With this report I sincerely thank our employees and other business partners for their contribution towards the company’s sustainable development and encourage them to undertake practices to embed the global compact principles deeper into our corporate culture. KEIICHIRO UTSUMI Managing Director & CEO June 21, 2012 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Organizational Profile GRI Reporting Guidelines Ref. No. 2.1 Name of the Organization Hinopak Motors Limited 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Assembly, manufacturing and Sales of Hino Trucks and Buses and Sales of Hino Genuine Parts. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main Hinopak is a subsidiary concern of Hino Motors Limited Japan and divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Toyota Tsusho Corporation. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Karachi, Pakistan 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and One (Pakistan) names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Public Limited Company 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors The company serves markets of Pakistan and some of the Middle East served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). & African countries. Types of customers include: 1. Institutional customers 2. Commercial customers 2.8 Scale of the organization Number of Employees as on May 31, 2012 = 310 (1,148 including contract and contractor’s employees) Net sales (2011-12) = Rs. 8.76 billion Total capitalization* = Rs. 2.68 billion (43% Debt, 57% Equity) Quantity of Products Produced (2011-12): Hino chassis (including export): 1,662 Bus and other specialized bodies (including export): 1,024 Hilux Frame: 4,507 *the capital structure of the company is equity based with no financing through long term borrowings. Company avails short-term borrowings for working capital purposes only. 1 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, The Company closed down three of its area offices located at Multan, structure, or ownership. Faisalabad and Sadiqabad in response to the strategic business improvement; whereas no other significant changes took place during the reporting year. 2.10 Awards / citations received during the reporting period A. “Best Performing Company in Management & Decent Work” in the category of medium public limited company by Employer’s Federation of Pakistan. B. “28th Corporate Excellence Certificate (Engineering Sector)” by the Management Association of Pakistan (MAP). Management Systems ISO 14001:2004 Certified ISO 9001:2000 Certified OHSAS 18001:2007 Certified Affiliations / Memberships Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP) Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce & Industry (OICCI) Federation of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) Management Association of Pakistan (MAP) Pakistan Automotive Manufacturers Association (PAMA) S.I.T.E. Association Pakistan Japan Business Forum (PJBF) Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 1 April 2011 ~ 31 May 2012 3.2 Date of most recent previous report/s UNGC Communication on Progress (COP): June 2011 Hinopak Environmental & Social Report 2009-10 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Muhammad Akram General Manager HR & Administration Muhammad-Akram@hinopak.com Nabila Mujahid Faisal Health, Safety & Environment Manager Nabila-Mujahid@hinopak.com Maria Azhar Human Resource Development Executive Maria-Azhar@hinopak.com 2 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Board of Directors (Highest Governance Body) committees under the highest governance body responsible for Board Committee: specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational The Audit Committee is responsible for: oversight. a. Determination of appropriate measures to safeguard company’s assets; b. Review of quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial statements of the Company, prior to the approval of the Board of Directors; c. Review of management letter issued by external auditors and management’s response thereto and monitor the action plan to improve the control environment; d. Review of the scope and extent of internal audit and ensuring that the internal audit function has adequate resources and is appropriately placed within the Company; e. Ascertaining that the internal control system including financial and operational controls, accounting system and reporting structure are adequate and effective; f. Instituting special projects, other investigations on any matter specified by the Board of Directors, and to refer any matter to the external auditors or to any other external body; g. Monitoring compliance with relevant statutes and best practices of corporate governance. Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 for details on the BOD and the Audit Committee. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Chairman (Non-Executive Director) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. The Board of Directors has 7 members; where 4 are non-executive directors. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Shareholders: recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Annual General Meeting (AGM) Employees: 3 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Suggestion Boxes (located at conspicuous places around the company premises) Human Rights Commitment: Hinopak Motors Limited is committed to respecting and protecting the dignity of people in UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support all its areas of operations. All stakeholders are assured of sincere efforts to uplift conditions with regard to and respect the protection of internationally health and safety, provide sound labor-management relations and participate in human resource/ proclaimed human rights community development. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Health and Safety Systems Actions: Performance: Leadership Guidance / Buy-in  1ST amongst the automobile sector in Pakistan to receive ISO-14001 certification in 2001 & re-certified in 2004, 2007 & 2010.  Received OHSAS 18001:2007 certification in 2008  Consolidated all functions of Health, Safety & Environment under HSE in November 2010  Dedicated Safety Teams for both plants (AOP/BOP) established for closer monitoring of safety standards.  Monthly HSE Meeting is held to review the performance of HSE by management. Healthy and Safe Work Environment  Under OHSAS Policy, PPEs are provided to all employees working in the Plant side. SAT members ensure its compliance through Daily Safety Patrolling. Counseling is provided to those who deviate from this Safety practice. Moreover, awareness sessions on Importance of PPEs are also conducted for workers to educate them about its importance.  We ensure that Safe Working infrastructure is provided in both the Plants. Special attention is given to most hazardous areas like Paint shop, Primer shop, FRP section and Boiler Room to name some. Moreover, safety awareness sessions are also held for the concerned employees to make certain that they work according to the safety rules of the company. Approximately 20 different kinds of training and awareness sessions are held on shop wise basis for the conformity of this affair  The Emergency Response Plan at Hinopak has been developed to respond to the following emergencies at the facility: 4 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Fires, Smoke and Explosions. Spills (Raw Materials and Products). Medical Emergencies. Civil Disturbance, terrorism, sabotage, workplace violence  Spill Control team, Fire fighting Team, First aid Team, Security & communication Team & Salvation Team are available to handle these emergencies. A dedicated team of 15 Firemen available in both plants AOP Fire Pump Capacity = 500 Gallon /min BOP Pump Capacity = 400 Gallon/ Min Diesel Driven Fire Pump at AOP (Capacity 600 Gallon / Min) Total 334 different kinds of Fire Extinguishers installed in both plants Availability of 12 Fire Blankets Smoke Detectors: 239 Heat Detectors: 19 Fire Suppression System FM 200 installed at Main Electrical Panel BOP  Comprehensive Fire Safety Inspections through Fire Drills, Mock Drills, and Int. / Ext. Audits.  Companywide recreational activities continued during the reporting year. Various sporting and recreational activities included tape ball and hard ball cricket tournaments, tug of war, arm wrestling, carom, badminton and table tennis were held.  Daily morning exercise participated not just by employees but transient stakeholders/visitors.  Hinopak was declared a ‘Non-Smoking Company’ in 2007. Employees and any one visiting HPML can only smoke in designated Smoking zone Areas available in both the plants. In order to give awareness about ‘Adverse Effect of Smoking and Tobacco Usage’, Health Camps were also organized in collaboration with AKU Hospital. 5 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Health Assessment and Surveillance  Pre-induction Health Assessment: Before hiring as regular staff all employees are assessed for physical and mental health. This serves as baseline document for future reference.  Periodic Health Assessment: During employment, employees are required to be assessed by qualified medical practitioner to monitor weather the job or the working environment does create or aggravate a physical or mental illness. These periodic Assessment are of two types (1) Non-Risk based Assessment e.g. office staff and (2) Risk based Assessment e.g. food handlers, drivers etc.  Health Surveillance: it is carried out only for specific hazards e.g. high noise exposure, chemical exposure etc  It is our policy to ensure our employees remain healthy. For this we are continuously organizing different Health related programs to enhance employees knowledge on these issues related to our industry. Some trainings held in 2012 were; Awareness on Dengue Fever and its prevention methods. Eye Injuries & diseases caused by Industrial Accidents and their prevention. Oral Cancer caused by Paan, Gutka, chalia Adverse Effect caused by Smoking and usage of Tobacco  All Drivers, Food handlers and Chemical Handlers went through different medical tests to confirm that they are and remain healthy while performing their jobs.  BMI test was conducted for all employees to identify how many are obese, normal or under weight. Awareness programs were organized for effective personal to give awareness about healthy life style. Moreover, posters displaying information on healthy diet and life style is also displayed at prominent places all over the company. Monitoring and Awareness  Safety Administration Team (SAT) members are responsible to performed safety patrolling on daily basis. All the safety issue, highlighted during the patrolling are communicated to concerned departmental/section head through Daily Safety Patrolling being done on daily basis by our Safety Administration Team (SAT) members.  HSE performance was reviewed by management in HSE Meeting held on monthly basis. It is the responsibility of section incharge to 6 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 conduct Tool Box Talk (TBT) on daily basis to inform the employees about safety issues.  Different HSE related information, OHSAS Hazards and Fire safety related matter is communicated to employees by displaying on HSE boards  Employees can raise their OHSAS concerns through Safety Cards, available at all conspicuous locations in the plants. Moreover, OHS issues can also be highlighted through mail or verbal communication to HSE department.  Contractors can raise/highlight their HSE related matters and concerns through their HPML’s representative.  OHSAS hazards are communicated to contractors/ suppliers by HSE department in consultation with concerned department before start of any project.  ‘Visitors Safety Guideline’ is provided at gates for visitors/ suppliers entering HPML’s premises, informing them about safety points which they have to comply during their visit.  Any accident report being received from Hino Motors Limited, Japan (HML) is communicated to concerned related section by conducting ‘One Time Inspection’ against the accident, sharing the observations with departments, providing awareness about the accident, and displaying it on HSE boards.  Surveillance audit under OHSAS 18001:2007 in June 2011 was conducted successfully, i.e. compliance with the standards verified by our external auditors Bureau Veritas.  Accident and incident monitoring system given emphasis towards a safer environment. Near-miss incidents tracked, reported and shared to avoid re-occurrences. In fiscal year 2011-12 1 minor accident was reported.  Daily update, monitoring and maintenance of our Safety Calendar to highlight safety status continued.  Training-cum-mock drills given to Emergency Response Program (ERP) Teams to check readiness in case of emergencies. ERP Teams include Rescue, Firefighting, Spill, etc.  Periodic safety trainings given to employees; safety reminders / guidelines part of our employee orientation program. 7 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012  Daily morning safety meetings led by team leaders/executives are conducted at shop floor level, after morning exercises.  Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Committee meeting held monthly where identified hazards and countermeasures are reviewed / countermeasures are decided.  A Health, Safety & Environment Systems Steering Committee; chaired by Director Production/Technical, also meets every quarter to discuss HSE related initiatives/developments  Exchange of information on occurrence of fatal/major accidents shared with parent companies; learning and adoption of new measures from experiences shared by other Toyota/Hino affiliates called 'yokoten' observed.  Contractors, vendors and suppliers are encouraged to implement operational control to minimize their OH&S hazards. Basic Employee Facilities  Similar to previous years, extra medical benefit (as special case) was again provided to few employees who exceeded their medical allowance this year.  Refer to GRI Indicator No. LA10 for year-end training hours for our employees.  Eighteen (18) employees were sponsored (USD 2,368/each; 90% of the total amount) for their religious pilgrimage (Hajj) for 2012.  Cash awards and other monetary benefits for 2011-12 employee performance provided despite operating in an adverse local and international business environment.  Disbursement of monthly attendance bonus continued for permanent workers.  Hinopak employees, permanent and contract (including contractor's) are insured.  Head Office gym/recreation room being used daily for work-outs and indoor games.  Leave Fare Assistance (LFA) continued to be provided as benefit to our employees to allow them an amount for their annual leave. Employee Satisfaction  We completed our third round of HR visits to gauge employee’s satisfaction and take their suggestions through departmental interviews and meetings. To increase the activity’s effectiveness, Administration and HSE related inputs and suggestions were also 8 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 taken. Suggestions and inputs received from 126 employees.  Regular internal and external salary surveys for management and non-management compensation and benefits system ensures alignment/comparison with industry practices.  Routine benchmarking of our policies and practices against other companies continued, ensuring adoption of best practices benefitting our employees. Total Quality Management Actions: Performance: Continuous Improvement  The ISO 9001:2008 surveillance audit successfully performed in March 2012 endorsed our commitment on quality management and quality operations.  Kaizen initiatives, involving non-manufacturing functions, being implemented and monitored also participated by top management. Regular Kaizen meetings being held periodically.  Plans to implement ‘Kaizen Trophy’ program underway to enhance Kaizen culture across the company and reward best Kaizen/s.  Daily, half-hour training at shop floor conducted through our Quality Assurance Department to educate personnel on process improvements. During this reporting year and under this initiative, 865 training man-hours were achieved.  Various automation processes being carried out for companywide systems e.g. online gate pass, online production planning etc.  Awareness sessions for 43 newly hired employees conducted to sensitize them on ISO 9001:2008 standards.  Plans to implement Quality Circles program for our nonmanagement workforce underway. Industrial / Employee Relations Actions: Performance: Fair Investigation  A formal Grievance Handling System ensures that the grievances arising within the workforce are adequately and timely are acted upon and resolved.  Complying with the Industrial and Commercial Employment (Standing Orders) Ordinance 1968 also ensures objectivity in following the procedures for disciplinary actions against misconduct. Hinopak employees are assured of their rights, fair treatment and the opportunity to be heard. 9 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Employee Recognition  Annual punctuality awards for the years 2010-11 and 2011-12 were awarded in June 2012. The awards are given to management and non-management employees on punctuality throughout the year. 41 Non-management employees and 25 management employees received punctuality awards for both years.  Retiring/separating employees are given farewell parties.  The annual performance based reward and compensation system ensured due performance recognition of employees.  This year 20 employees were promoted (out of which 6 were promoted to managerial positions) and 21 management employees were regularized to the Company’s permanent service; endorsing the company’s commitment to recognize and reward performance. Security  Wide use and provision of security services to protect our people and properties has been one of our prime responsibilities. This service extends to the protection of our top management in their residences.  This year considering the city’s (and the Country’s) law and order situation, security was beefed up for foreign visitors and Japanese employees at work, at their residence and for personal and official commutes.  A Security and Communication Team and system are in place to handle emergency and risk situations.  The Japanese employees and their families have been provided with security guards, dummy mobile phones and wallets; to ensure maximum security/safety during outdoor visits.  Liaison with law and order enforcement agencies continued for increased vigilance.  To ensure stronger security measures, walkthrough gates have been installed on the company’s entrance gates. Manual security checking at the entrance/exit gates is performed (where walkthrough gates have not been installed).  Number of security lights around the company premises have been increased for better vigilance during night time.  Provision of revised access cards for vendors and suppliers and restriction on visitor’s movement inside the company premises have been done to ensure better visitor management. 10 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012  For the next year, plans are to introduce Visitor Management System (VMS), fencing, night vision cameras etc. Employment Policy for Disabled People  This year also Hinopak continued its compliance towards the Workmen's Compensation Act relating to disability.  Workers who could not continue certain job due to disability met at work, were transferred/given alternate job and due compensation and medical treatment.  We follow the government’s directive to meet minimum requirement of employment of disabled persons. Forcible Displacement Prevention  Hinopak, to date, does not have a record of forcible displacement with reference to Standing Order (Ordinance) 1968 of the Labor Laws. Customer and End-users' Rights / Actions: Performance: Protection Product/Service Quality & Availability  Product Support network development continued by exploring new or upgrading dealerships to ensure customer support wherever and whenever required.  Under the ‘Knocking the Door’ project our service teams have been visiting our customers at their premises and resolving after-sales related queries and providing customer support.  To strengthen customer services at the dealer’s end, two new mobile workshops were delivered to our dealers Hino Lahore and Hino Karachi. Considering the cost constraints, this initiative was on cost sharing basis.  Following the dealer’s ‘customer service enhancement’ initiative through mobile workshops, the total number of Mobile Workshops has moved up to 9 units and the number of Hino Pro-Care units now stands at 4 units, helping us to reach out to our customer’s even at remote locations.  Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Survey was conducted this year also across the country through our Product Support Department to ascertain customers' feedback to enable us to serve them according to their specific needs.  Following the company’s entry into the export market, this reporting year we were able to export 15 buses to Middle Eastern 11 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 countries.  Introduction of two Mobile Workshops at dealer’s premises on cost sharing basis helped in further strengthening our after sales network. Following this initiative, the total number of Hino Mobile workshops has risen to nine units and the number of Hino Pro-Care units now stands at four units.  Operations of our Mobile Training Unit continued, benefiting customers in terms of transportation cost on training, training at their doorsteps, easy supervision, etc. Plans are underway to enhance the operations of this facility for the next year. Stakeholder Actions: Performance: Participation/Engagement Supplier/Contractor/Vendor Rights,  Specific welfare/environment clause in our Vendor Evaluation Recognition of Human Rights Form only qualifies those who meet requirements on their labor’s safety, working conditions and environment, respect for fundamental human rights and measures for improvements taken.  Our suppliers/contractors were continued to be advised to follow our safety, health and environment requirements. Their training also remained a part of our overall safety program.  Like employees, contractors' and suppliers' induction into Hinopak is based on transparency and merit. Education / Community Development and  Over a four-year period since renovation of the SITE Model School, Welfare overall school admission/enrollment improvement seen, as of April 2012 the enrollment stands at approx. 770 students (Evening: 260, Morning: 510)  First batch of 25 students of the SITE Model School Technical Wing – Technical School Certificate (TSC) graduated with an average 70 ~ 75 percentage (A grade).  Three year apprenticeship program is underway where 39 apprentices are receiving theoretical and practical training.  More than 976 students and teachers have visited Hinopak since April 2011, which have always been well received by the students, teachers and university/school management alike.  87 children of our non-management employees were recognized for their academic achievement through cash awards and appreciation letters. The activity was undertaken under the company’s 12 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 “Academic Achievement Recognition Program”. A separate cash amount for academic books was also awarded.  The first 10 Hinopak Scholars from NED University of Engineering & Technology graduated in January 2012 after completion of their 4year B.E degree specializing in mechanical, automotive and industrial & manufacturing technologies. New merit-based scholars have been identified for scholarship awards for the next four years.  This year also, the Technical School Certificate (TSC) Part-I and PartII students of SITE Model School were given a comprehensive visit to Hinopak's manufacturing facilities including Product Support Training Centre. 46 students with 2 teachers visited the facility.  Our summer (June-August 2011) and winter (December/January 2011-12) internship program saw to about 123 students getting acclimatized with a professional environment. Project-based, this program allowed linkage between theory and practice, much appreciated by students and the educational institutions alike. Career Counseling cum company orientation program was also conducted for the interns.  During the reporting year 2011-12, Hinopak supported 10 technical / management projects done by approximately 35 students belonging to various academic institutions and universities.  To enhance the services extended to the community through the Hinopak Community Health Center (HCHC) located inside the SITE Model School premises, plans are underway to engage a paramedic staff / part-time doctor and extend the health center’s reach through promotions / banners display etc.  A breast cancer awareness program was conducted for female students, teachers of the SITE Model School which was also attended by the female staff of Hinopak. The program was held in coordination with the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital and was attended by approximately 110 participants.  Supporting academic and recreational activities of SITE Model School, for their Milad (religious) program, the sound system was provided by Hinopak for the second consecutive year.  Potable as well as gardening water provided to SITE Model School. Hinopak gardeners visit the school regularly to maintain the school 13 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 gardens and plants.  We continued in promoting a sporting spirit in the community by sponsoring the 18th KCCI Cricket Tournament in February 2012 which saw to the participation of 26 teams from various organizations, as compared to 22 teams last year.  This year under the company’s initiative to promote awareness among our customers or various product related themes, a total of 18 courses were conducted for 225 participants during this year.  Of the customer related courses held, one note worthy event was the one week Eco-Driving Training conducted for Pakistan Army – EME 42 officers.  A collaborative awareness program on Eye Diseases was conducted in-house by a team from Hashmani Eye Hospital. Management and non-management employees participated in the program.  In the wake of the Japan Earthquake and Tsunami in March 2011, Hinopak donated Rs. 1 Million to the earthquake victims through the Japanese Consulate here in Karachi. Personal Social Responsibility  Some employees head or are members of local/international clubs for the pursuit of community welfare and development. Commitment: Hinopak is committed to avoiding complicity of human rights abuses in all its areas of UNGC Principle 2: Businesses should make sure operation. their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Code of Conduct Actions: Performance: Code of Conduct Adherence  Employee commitment to the Code was sought through handwritten signatures 2007 and email confirmations in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012.  Complaints (contravention to the Code) were monitored/tracked by our Whistle Blowing Committee. Countermeasures/action accordingly given/done.  Suggestion boxes available at conspicuous areas provided convenience in forwarding complaints/suggestions. Open working environment at Hinopak gives the spirit of freedom (of expression).  For the third consecutive year we have been following the 14 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 requirements of Standing Orders (Ordinance) 1968 and the Japanese Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (J-SOX). Periodic internal and external audits recommended by the standard are being held.  For the third year running, the J-SOX audit was conducted to check strict adherence to the code of conduct. No case of malpractice or fraudulent activities within in the company reported.  The Code of Conduct is made a part of the Orientation Pack for new employees; and acknowledgement of the code is taken endorsing its receipt and understanding by new family members. Each orientee is taken through the code to ensure its understanding and compliance.  No cases of violation of the Hinopak Code of Conduct reported during the reporting year. Credo, Mission, Values, Practice  We support Hino’s Credo incorporating the Mission of “making this world a better place to live in” through social contribution and concern for all stakeholders including compliance with all laws.  Plans to inculcate and train the non-management workforce on the principles of the Hino Credo specifically the Hino Spirit are underway – programs of which will be conducted in the participants native language; Urdu.  To propagate a culture of ethics in our day to day operations by each employee, the Hino Spirit Trainings would include training and awareness on ethics. Employees Actions: Performance: Equal Opportunity Provision  The reporting year saw to the promotion of a second female employee to the managerial cadre. Female employees are given equal opportunity in all aspects of employment including training, promotion, and other benefits.  Aside from signing and communicating the Gender Equality Policy and Process Guidelines (developed by the Employers' Federation of Pakistan in conjunction with ILO) in December 2008, plans to introduce the a gender harassment policy are still underway endorsing the 'Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace Act 2010' announced by the government.  Equitable career paths and growth opportunities are available for female employees. Female employees are also provided company conveyance facility to facilitate/encourage them to work without 15 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 any major hindrances.  We practice the principle of diversity as one of the Hino Spirit values embed in areas like recruitment, vendor / supplier prequalification, promotion, etc. External Public Actions: Performance: Consumer Protection  We follow laws of the land, Pakistan's and other countries'. We ensure that foreign laws and regulations are absolutely referred to in our local and export product development, ensuring public right to safety and health.  Quality audits (sometimes aided by Japanese experts) routinely performed. Audits of vehicles produced from June 2010 to-date ensure that our products conform to quality and safety standards keeping our consumers/customers' rights in mind. Vendor/Supplier Pre-qualification and  Hinopak's vendors' / suppliers' premises and operations are Human Rights Observation checked/inspected before they are inducted as business partners. Non-complicity to human rights abuses is incorporated in our Initial Vendor Evaluation Report where safety of workers, working conditions, labor-management relations, among other things, are included.  Vendors/suppliers are encouraged to be certified in international management standards and likewise follow laws and conventions pertaining to human rights.  Encouragement to vendors in observing rights of employees have resulted to improvements in working conditions and safety (use of PPEs). Labour Commitment: We uphold freedom of association and the right of workers to collective bargaining. UNGC Principle 3: Businesses are asked to uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Industrial & Employee Relations Actions: Performance: Freedom of Association  Hinopak has been very compliant with the Industrial Relations Act (IRA) 2012 and has begun looking into the requirements of the revised act. 16 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012  Hinopak workers represented by a registered Labor Union, Hinopak Motors Limited Employees Union, existing since the company's preJapanese ownership from 1969. Current membership to-date is 146, represented by the Collective Bargaining Agent.  Union members elect their officers/executive body every two years; officers are given leave for participations in union activities, trainings or workshops. Elections to elect the new CBA office general body scheduled in June 2012. Collective Bargaining as a Tool for  13th collective bargaining agreement was successfully signed in Addressing Working Conditions, Terms and April 2012, enhancing workers' benefits and promising cooperation Employment and Relations from them in terms of productivity, quality, housekeeping, etc. This agreement will be in effect for the next two years.  Industrial Relations are periodically monitored through the 'Industrial Relations Committee' chaired by General Manager HR & Admin and participated by CBA's General Secretary and President, and the HR & ER Manager. Labor Laws as Point of Reference  Hinopak ensures reference to labor laws relating to workersIRA 2012 and Standing Ordinance 1968, such as freedom of association, including issues including but not limited to disciplinary action and termination.  Workers' and Union activities likewise reflect labor law requirements; mutual understanding and compliance resulting to a harmonious labor-management relationship.  In a recent audit of all applicable labour laws, the following enforceable rules were met strictly: 1. Notice of periods of work for Adults/ Children (Factories Act Sec 39, Rule 95/ Form L) 2. Payment of full and final settlement before the expiry of second working day [Sec 12(4), Payment of Wages Act (Sec 5)] Labor-Management Relations  Labor-management relations at Hinopak are exemplary; this harmonious relationship is based on mutual trust, respect and transparency.  No strike or cessation in work or loss of work hours due to strike, goslow or lockout in Hinopak history. Engagement / Participation  Workers' active engagement in company affairs/operations has 17 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 resulted to increased productivity and raised morale. Major thrusts of union participation include meeting production targets, productivity improvement, skill development, wastage control, education of workers, Kaizen, 5-S, health and safety.  Workers / CBA officers permitted to attend trainings both locally and internationally either through the company or through the Trade Union Federation.  Hinopak Union organizes and conducts trainings for workers from time to time.  During the reporting year, 4,543 training man-hours were achieved for training and awareness activities for workers.  Besides routine on-the-job, shop-floor and class room trainings, the workers are also supported for continuing education e.g. matric, intermediate, and other professional qualifications. Under this initiative 8 workers have been provided financial support for continuing education till date. External Relations Actions: Performance: Engagement  Hinopak workers actively participate in workers' related issues, different worker-related training and seminars held externally.  This year also, the workers actively participated in various company organized sporting events such as the tape ball / hard ball cricket tournaments, arm wrestling, table tennis, carom, and badminton competitions. Commitment: We are committed to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor in all areas UNGC Principle 4: Business should support the of our or business partners' operations. elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Employees Actions: Performance: Terms and Conditions of Service, Voluntary  Sufficient time is given to candidates before accepting our written Nature of Employment, Freedom to Leave job offer; employment contracts routinely checked to ensure they do not violate any human rights or labor law violations.  Notice period is allowed for termination of employment contract -generally at 30 days; 90 days for General Manager position-above.  Exit interviews are conducted to solicit feedback and make necessary improvements as possible. 18 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012  During the reporting year no cases of employee separation due to harassment, discrimination or unfair treatment were reported during the exit interview. Wage Regulations  Hinopak workers receive above minimum wage specified by law. Latest directive to increase minimum wage to Rs. 8,000 to be immediately executed after confirmation from the concerned directorate.  All salaries (management and non-management staff) continue to be disbursed through bank accounts/ATM for the third year running since the initiative was taken in 2009.  Hinopak vendors/contractors advised to meet minimum wage requirement for their workers/employees. Assessment & Contract  We encourage all vendors and contractors to comply with legal requirements relating to their employees' health and safety.  Forced/compulsory labor part of our initial Vendor Evaluation Report and contract with them requires that they do not employ the same. Commitment: We prohibit engagement, in any form, of child labor in all areas of our business operations UNGC Principle 5: Business should support the or our business partners' operations. effective abolition of child labor. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Employees Actions: Performance: Underage Hiring Prevention Process  We continue to follow the under-age employment clause of the Factories Act 1934 for our workers and apprentices.  Our minimum age requirement for apprentices is 16 years; ensuring compliance of legal requirements set by the Apprenticeship Rules 1966.  We acquire and routinely check NIC (National Identity Card) number of incoming employees / workers / apprentices / internees / contractor’s staff.  We have no record of underage employee/apprentice; youngest apprentice on board is 17 years old (minimum age is 14 years old according to Apprenticeship Rules 1966 (Sindh). Vendor / Contractor Evaluation and  Non-employment of child labor is ensured/checked through our Engagement Internal Vendor Evaluation Report.  Hinopak employees interacting with vendors/contractors and 19 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 visiting their premises are to report any observation of engaging child labor. Eradication of Child Labor through  The Technical Training Program (TSC Part-I and Part-II) for SITE Community Support Model School boys along with the 10 scholarships we provided this year are intended to effectively keep the youth off the workforce.  Career counseling sessions and offer of our Apprentice program are initiatives taken to ensure the TSC students continue their education / skills development after completion of Technical School Certificate.  Technical training along with practical on-the-job training of 39 apprentices is underway. Theory courses include Technical Mathematics, Technical Drawing and Trade Theory for the first year. Commitment: We advocate equal employment opportunities, diversity and inclusion in employment and UNGC Principle 6: Business should support the occupation and prohibit any form of discrimination in employment terms and conditions. elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Employees Actions: Performance: Workforce Diversity  Our recruitment, selection and hiring processes are inclusive and vocal about giving equal employment opportunities.  Diversity as a principle espoused by the Hino Spirit we follow as a Hino affiliate is being brought to employees' attention through orientation, trainings and other HR activities.  One female employee was promoted to a managerial position this year.  Refer to GRI Indicator LA1 for Workforce profile (including workers).  Low number of female employees is due to our nature of business operations, not systematic exclusion. Equal Employment Opportunities to Women  After adopting and communicating the Gender Equality Policy in and Minorities December 2008, plan is still underway for implementation of the Protection against Harassment of Women at Workplace Act 2010”.  The company’s business operations provide encouraging work opportunities for females. Our recruitment process does not promote appoints on the basis of gender; mainly for management jobs. 20 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012  No report of exclusion of minorities in our employment activities. We have a diverse workforce where people from almost all minorities are employed (e.g. Hindu, Parsi and Christian).  Job requirements/specifications do not disadvantage certain groups. Benefits  Minorities are given extra holidays for observance of their religious holidays/festivals.  Minorities' food requirements are considered in our daily canteen services.  Despite company's central location, we continued to provide pick and drop facility to our female employees.  No known grievance/complaint of discrimination to date with regard to compensation/benefit of females/minorities.  60 calendar days paid maternal leave is provided to female employees as per compliance with the Standing Order Ordinance 1968.  Equal medical benefits for maternity care and hospitalization are provided to the female staff. Career Opportunities  Hiring and promotion on merit, performance, qualification and potential.  Minorities and female employees are given the same training opportunities as the rest.  Worker’s are given due opportunity for management jobs. During the reporting year 21 workers were taken into the company’s management category positions after a fair screening and internal hiring process based on merit. External Public Actions: Performance: Employment & Internship Opportunities  Going the extra mile for female candidates and minorities (employment and internship) is one of Hinopak's 'employer of choice' factors.  We continued with our summer and winter internship program to provide professional learning and development opportunities to 123 college/university students during the reporting year.  Apprentices are absorbed in the workforce under merit upon completion of the 3-year apprenticeship program. Business Partners' Engagement, Inclusion  Non-discrimination of employees/workers is included in our Initial 21 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 and Recognition Vendor Evaluation Report.  Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors belonging to minority groups are inducted as business partners and given equal rights.  Contractors' employees (minority group) also extended benefits ('bonus') whenever company's financial conditions allow it. Environment Commitment: We take precautionary approach in meeting environmental challenges met in all areas of UNGC Principle 7: Business should support a operations; we are committed to avoiding and mitigating negative impact of all our activities on the precautionary approach to environmental environment. challenges. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Environment Management Actions: Performance: Systems Leadership Guidance  As per the directive from Hino Motors Japan, we have achieved ISO 14001 Certification in2001, since then we are continuously making programs to enhance our EMS systems. SMART objectives are set against key parameters ‘Prevention of Global Warming’, ‘Materials discarded’, and ‘Water Conservation’, to show commitment to facing environmental challenges resulting from business activities.  Top management commitment can be seen by their participation in Health, Safety & Environment Systems Steering Committee and Global Compact & CSR Committee. Systems are reviewed and decisions are taken to improve and enhance our Management systems.  Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) department was recently integrated and the HSE Committee was restructured to be more effective in taking care of the implementation of planned environment-related activities. Legal Compliance  We subject ourselves to NEQS (National Environment Quality Standards) under SEPA (Sindh Environment Protection Agency.) Reports on waste water effluents and air emissions submitted using the SMART software required by the EPA.  Key parameters (energy consumption, material discard, and water conservation) were reported to Hino Motors, Japan on monthly basis.  Compliance in all aspects has ensured a clean, green record (no 22 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 warnings, no penalties) for Hinopak. Water release and air release were both within compliance levels.  Our local and international legal compliance have enabled us to enter the export market. Maintenance and Monitoring  Risk Assessment is conducted on company wide basis, to identify the associated hazards and their severity. The same is communicated to concerned employees and displayed at their locations.  Environmental Impact Assessment program is in place, ensuring alignment with procedures for identifying, recording and mitigating the environmental impacts of Hinopak operations.  Analysis of Air Emissions from combustion stacks, Generators, Engines are done on predefined intervals. Auditing, Certifications and Awards  Internal audit conducted in 2011~2012; appropriate countermeasures taken against minor observations/nonconformities.  Surveillance Audit conducted in July 2011, no major/minor NCR was highlighted during this audit.  Since 2011, we have participated in the two South East Asia (SEA) Environmental Conference held each year in Jakarta, Indonesia and Bangkok, Thailand. Hinopak’s initiatives of Environmental Conservation / Reporting were shared with other delegates. Hazardous Substance Control  It is one of our objectives to ensure that every chemical passes through Chlorinated Organic Compound (COC) checking before entering Hinopak premises. Any chemical containing this substance is carcinogenic in nature and is included in TOYOTA Banned Material List. To date, 87 chemicals have been checked and cleared. Communication, Awareness, Training  Various banners and posters on environmental awareness displayed in both plants to celebrate Environment Month 2012.  The environmental performance of our plants is reported on an annual basis through our annual report and also on other reporting platforms; such as our principal Hino Motors Ltd. 23 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Commitment: Guided by our mission and social responsibility principles, we are committed to promoting UNGC Principle 8: Business should undertake environmentally responsible thinking within the Hinopak family, marked by sincere demonstration of initiatives to promote greater environmental better environmental-friendly practices. We strive to increase our sphere of influence beyond our responsibility. company by including all other stakeholders and ensure greater positive impact. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Environmental Responsibility Actions: Performance: Guidelines Hino Credo Corporate Mission, CSR  Hino Motors' mission statement explicitly indicates environmental Chapter, Hino Spirit responsibility: To make the world a better place to live in by helping people and goods get where they need to gosafely, economically and with environmental responsibilitywhile focusing on sustainable development.  Hino's CSR Chapter reiterates this commitment… we strive to provide products that are safe and environmentally-friendly, pursuing a responsible balance with the environment in all of our corporate activities.  Hino Spirit enjoins all employees to practice the Spirit of Contribution – where it further elaborates that With a deep respect for all people, we approach our work with openness and honesty, and a true dedication to fulfilling our social responsibilities.  Our employees are trained on the Hino Spirit principles Hinopak Mission  The mission of Hinopak Motors Limited is reflective of our parent company's mission, to provide the society with safe, economical, comfortable and environment-friendly means of transportation by manufacturing and supplying commercial vehicles and services. Hinopak Code of Conduct  Principle 1 of our Code of Conduct calls for developing and providing outstanding products and services, with sufficient attention to safety and environment, and Principle 4 that calls for environmental preservation activity as an integral part of our business, are recognized and adopted by our employees. Mottainai  This catchy Japanese word, our environmental motto, unites all Hino employees worldwide in the spirit of environmental preservation and cost reduction by simple measures. 24 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Environmental Initiatives at Actions: Performance: Hinopak Stop Global Warming  HPML has set targets for energy conservation against the reference year of 2008 and we are continuously decreasing our energy usage by adopting several strategies regarding energy conservation. These include, Controlling of unnecessary light at offices and plants. Maintaining temperature up to 26OC for air conditioners Replacement of mercury bills and search lights with energy Savers. We have totally replaced 229 mercury bulbs with the energy savers which results in 66% reduction in energy Consumption and CO2 emissions. Utilization of Sunlight where possible to maintain the appropriate light levels. Minimization of energy consumption of compressor by removing air leakages. Installation of energy meters to monitor the energy consumption reading in different areas of plant. Installation of separate small compressor of 11KVA in different departments, so that in case of special working in one department the main centralized compressor (55KVA) would remain off.  Our Stop Global Warming motto remained and against our target we have achieved 6% reduction in CO2 emissions per sales below FY 2008.  We conduct Toyota Yokoten to identify Air leakages and Pumps leakages in both the plants. Appropriate actions are taken for the mitigation. Equipment and machineries constantly checked/maintained to ensure efficiency. Pollution Prevention  As mentioned in EMS Policy to ‘Promote pollution prevention & reduce environmental impacts by proper handling and disposal of wastewater, solid waste, hazardous substances & gaseous emissions’, we were able to reduce Material Discard by 44% per sales below FY2008. Reduction in Hazardous waste (FRP scrap) through modification in process. 25 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 All Hazardous Waste are sent for incineration as required by EMS systems. Moreover, objectives are set on reduction of these wastes. Maximum utilization of iron scraps for in-house fabrication of different products in Hinopak. Reuse the cardboard / carton boxes / wooden material in packaging. Reuse the backside of paper to reduce the paper utilization and also maintain the soft data records where possible.  Water consumption is reduced by 28% in 2011 below FY 2008. Different objectives are set to control and reduce water consumption.  HPML has its own waste water treatment facility in both of plants AOP and BOP and we are utilizing its treated water not only in gardens of our both plants but also utilizing this treated water in School nearby HPML named S.I.T.E Model School. Gardeners provided by HPML regularly visited and watered the plants of that school.  Since 1989, Hinopak has been participating in Flower Show competition held by Horticultural Society, and has won different positions from 1st to 3rd, 18 times.  We are actively promoting environment friendly products; examples of this are our CNG-engine buses and Euro II compliant export quality buses which are low-emission and low-fuel consumption engines. Energy/Water Conservation: Reduce, Reuse,  Every year, we celebrate World Water Day on March 22. This year, Recycle in order to develop our employees understanding on Water conservation, different banners and posters were displayed in both the plants. Awareness sessions were held on shop floor by SAT members; moreover, a presentation was shared with Hinopak employees on Water Conservation by HSE Dept.  To promote energy conservation activities in the company, awareness session on Energy Conservation was held in collaboration with KESC Technical Team. The same information was also displayed in Urdu for workers for their easy understanding.  Constant checking and rectification of air pipes to avoid leakages. 26 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012  Appliances/equipment unplugged after use and not left on stand-by.  Use of fresh air or fans encouraged; whenever/wherever possible, air conditioners to be turned off.  Plant effluents converted into gardening water through our Waste Water Treatment plants  As water conservation initiative, our water consumption level decreased by 28% per sales against our baseline year 2008.  Environmental KAIZEN's are performed regularly, such as CO2 reduction, paper usage, usage of treated water for gardening etc. Employee Sensitization  World Environment Day celebrated in Hinopak on June 5, 2012 through a symbolic tree planting ceremony; top management members all planted trees (e.g. 17) to mark the occasion.  Environment care/protection awareness of employees through literatures/pamphlets/posters/banners witnessed in all three Environment Month/Day activities in June 2009, June 2010 and June 2011 and now in 2012. Pollution Prevention, Energy Conservation  Similar to previous years, employees will join clean-up activities in June 2012.  Drivers/customers are taught how to ensure proper vehicle usage and maintenance resulting to cleaner air from more clean airemitting, fuel-efficient vehicles through free-tune up camps. Sensitization / Awareness Campaign  Estimated 160 employees' children expected in July 2012 for a 'mini summer camp'/plant visit during which they will be sensitized on environmental preservation, will be given environment care literatures and will be shown the waste water treatment plants.  Customers/end-users/drivers/technicians and general public (participants of our Motor Vehicle Training Program, Mobile Field Training Unit & Training Centre) were also sensitized on the importance of vehicle maintenance and its positive impact to the environment during this reporting period. Commitment: We are committed to the adoption of environment-friendly technologies that reduce UNGC Principle 9: Business should encourage environment impact from our products and day-to-day operations. We ensure effective environment risk the development and diffusion of management and compliance across all our business activities, from product design/development to environmentally friendly technologies. product sale. 27 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Environment-friendly Technology Actions: Performance: Manufacturing Vehicles that Burn Cleaner  Hinopak introduced the first locally-manufactured CNG bus in the Fuels and Emit Less Fuel country and has secured repeat orders for satisfactory performance.  Euro-II engine technology fitted in some Hino products, despite the absence of local regulations on the same mainly because of absence of clean fuel. Testing and Development  We strictly follow Hino's green product development procedures.  All products undergo smoke belch tests to ensure quality of emission. Use of Environment-Friendly Parts / Raw  Use of environment-friendly gas R-134a & R-404a for air Material conditioning of buses & refrigeration of trucks is ensured.  We monitored and reduced use of diesel in our generator sets and other machinery used for production processes.  Quality of fuel, lubricants & other components are being checked by standard specification. Environmental-friendly Processes  Production/Manufacturing processes reviewed regularly.  For proper maintenance of vehicles, Hinopak provides authorized service stations/workshops.  Paint sludge, FRP & glass wool incineration are done by third party to reduce hazardous waste. Anti-Corruption Commitment: We support the anti-corruption principle and are committed to continue our 'no-tolerance' UNGC Principle 10: Business should work policy to any corruption practice. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Ethical Guidelines Actions: Performance: UNGC Subscription  Hinopak is very vocal about its UNGC subscription and commitment to all 10 principles. This commitment is communicated through publications, press releases, presentations, displays, annual report, sustainability report etc. Hinopak Code of Conduct  Our basic Code of Conduct is still under revision to make it more comprehensive and explicit, as per the observation of the board of directors. However, Principles 2, 3, 8 and 11 are clear on our pledge to work against anti-corruption practices. 28 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012  The Code of Conduct was circulated again among all management employees to reiterate the standards of ethics presented in the Code. 299 acknowledgements received from management staff for this reporting year.  Orientation of new hires includes briefing on basic Code of Conduct, Whistle Blowing procedure and the UNGC's principles.  The code of conduct is displayed on conspicuous places (e.g. notice boards) for our non-management staff. Same is being translated in Urdu for better comprehension and understanding of workers. Hinopak Whistle Blowing System  The Whistle Blowing Committee (WBC), leading in the oversight of our anti-corruption commitment, met quarterly as minimum requirement and monthly as desirable.  Similar to the previous years, during 2011-12 employees sent in their suggestions/grievances through the Whistle Blowing procedure and/or suggestion box. Accordingly, our MD/Chairman Whistle Blowing Committee addressed our employees' concerns.  New hires briefed and introduced to the company’s Code of Conduct and the Whistle Blowing Procedure and Form.  This year 35 new hires were given awareness on the COC and Whistle Blowing Procedure during the orientation session. Hino Credo, Mission, CSR Charter  Trust was invoked twice in the Hino Credo containing overall company mission, core principle and CSR charter, where complying with laws and regulations and maintaining high ethical standards is a major focus.  As indicated by our CSR charter which forms a part of the Hino Credo reflects on our commitment to good corporate citizenship, comply with laws and regulations and maintain high ethical standards. Hino Spirit  Hino Spirit principles; which indoctrinate our key organizational values, teach the ethical standards expected of our employees.  Orientation on ethics during the Hino Spirit training has been introduced. Risk Assessment System Actions: Performance: J-SOX  Internal Control Framework guides Hinopak in following the J-SOX (Japan's version of Sarbanes-Oxley Act). Four (4) internal audits 29 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 were conducted within period April 2011 to May 2012 and one (1) external audit in March 2012.  For this reporting year, internal controls / value additions were provided in the following areas: fixed assets, loans to Hinopak employees, fleet management, control over inventory (both plants), returnable gate pass, changes in Code of Corporate Governance. Other areas such as price negotiations of vendorized parts and supply items, dealers’ commission and incentive, scrap generation and disposal (body manufacturing plant) are under discussion.  For the third year running, Hinopak's MD/CEO declared compliance with the J-SOX requirements in a report sent to our principal in Japan. Audit Committee  An independent Audit Committee ensures monitoring of compliance activities. All three members of the Committee are non-executive directors.  The independent audit committee reports directly to the Board of Directors. Corporate Governance / Compliances  External auditors publicly attested Hinopak's financial reporting integrity as contained in our Annual Report 2012.  Hinopak's MD/CEO publicly affirmed compliance with corporate governance regulations as indicated in our Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2012.  Other compliances: SECP’s Code of Corporate Governance, Stock Exchange regulations, International Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Companies Ordinance 1984 and other taxation laws, etc. Citations, Awards  During the reporting year, Hinopak was cited by the Employer’s Federation of Pakistan as the “Best Performing Company in Management & Decent Work” in the category of medium public limited company.  Hinopak received the 28th Corporate Excellence Certificate (Engineering Sector) by the Management Association of Pakistan (MAP). Process Improvement  Company-wide processes such as payroll, leave application, attendance management, purchase requisition, stationary issuance, 30 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 bills payment, bill of material, material gate pass, and complaint management system have been automated to ensure data integrity and avoid manual errors/tampering. Automation of more processes is underway.  Recruitment and hiring policy is very vocal on transparency and merit; multiple assessments ensured all hiring's were done objectively.  Personal contact/interaction with Sales Tax personnel eliminated by electronic payment/processing.  Proposals/quotations from multiple vendors/suppliers sought, reviewed and seen by multiple Hinopak personnel before approval. Risk Assessment System Actions: Performance: Vendor Pre-qualification  Our vendors are subjected to a pre-qualification assessment, the Initial Vendor Evaluation Report, before they are inducted as business partners. Public Sensitization, Partnerships  Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives and UNGC principles shared with public (students, visitors, etc.) sensitizing them about the subject.  Hinopak visitors were routinely briefed about the company's Global Compact/CSR commitment and initiatives. GRI3.1 Performance Indicators Ref. No. Performance Indicator Performance Human Rights HR2 Percentage of significant All significant vendors and contractors undergo Human Rights suppliers, contractors and screening (both at the time of induction and during the service tenure) other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR4 Total number of incidents of None discrimination and corrective actions taken. HR5 Operations and significant None* suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective 31 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 bargaining may be violated or *Plans are to incorporate / assess suppliers and vendors on this at significant risk, and actions performance indicator for the next reporting year. taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant Suppliers: None* suppliers identified as having Vendors: 100%** significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures * Due to the nature of the procurement process through suppliers taken to contribute to the currently in effect effective abolition of child ** Vendors are assessed through the ‘vendor evaluation report’; labor. ensuring no significant risks for incidents of child labour which is evaluated / ensured by regular visits by our team to the vendor’s premises. HR9 Total number of incidents of None violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number 100% company processes confirm with the human rights requirements of operations that have been and the standards set forth by The Universal Declaration of Human subject to human rights Rights. reviews and/or impact assessments. Note: Comprehensive internal and third party external audits of company systems (e.g. J-SOX, ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 etc.) all endorse compliance with the set standards, including human rights. HR11 Number of grievances related None. to human rights filed, addressed and resolved Note: The grievances reported / filed through the formal grievance through formal grievance mechanism relate to other areas of operations but not human rights. mechanisms. Labour Practices & Decent Work LA6 Percentage of total Health, Safety & Environment Systems Steering Committee: workforce represented in 100% workers (contractor’s workers/permanent workers) are formal joint management– represented in this committee which has been established to review worker health and safety compliance with the company policies relating to HSE, review HSE committees that help projects and monitor its effective implementation etc. In this committee monitor and advise on the workforce is represented by the CBA General Secretary. 32 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 occupational health and safety programs. HSE Monthly Meeting: 100% workers (contractor’s workers/permanent workers) are represented during this meeting where the members (comprising of Director Production, CBA Representatives [representing the workforce], departmental heads, HSE Manager and other concerned plant / stores managers) are present. The main objective of this committee is to monitor and implement HSE practices and policies which are in place and initiate new projects to enhance occupational health and safety. LA8 Education, training, 2,005 OHS training man-hours were achieved during the reporting year. counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in Training and education of the workforce on serious diseases and place to assist workforce occupational health and safety practices is an on-going process. Some of members, their families, or the programs include: community members Awareness program on Hazards of Tobacco, Pan, Gutka etc. regarding serious diseases. Eye diseases awareness program Breast cancer awareness program for female staff / female students of SITE Model School Counseling of employees / workers with low or high BMI, diabetes, cardiac problems, cholesterol, high blood pressure etc. Flyers / informative e-mails are circulated to educate employees on health and safety related matters Medical tests are conducted for canteen cooks/waiters, drivers, chemical handlers (e.g. Workers from Paint & Primer, PTED, FRP, CO2 Welders). Fire fighting / fire prevention training The HSE department has a comprehensive program where risks relating to OHS are identified, documented and minimized/eradicated. 33 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 LA1 Total workforce by Total workforce: 1148* employment type, and Non-management contract / contractor’s employees: 692 (all males) employment contract, Non-management permanent: 146 (all males) broken down by gender Apprentices: 39 (all males) Management contract: 107 (males= 99, females= 8) Management permanent**: 164 (males= 155, females= 9) Pakistani Nationals: 1,142 (females=17, males=1125) Japanese Expats: 6 (all males) * As on May 31, 2012 ** Including top management LA2 Total number and rate of 2010-11* new employee hires and Total Hires: 14 where females= 2 (average age 22 years), males= 12 employee turnover by age (average age 31 years) group, gender, and region. Total Separations: 16 where females= 2 (average age 27.5 years), males= 14 (average age 28 years) 2011-12 * Total Hires: 51 where females= 3 (average age 34 years), males= 48 (average age 29 years) Total Separations: 16 where female= 1 (age 26 years), males= 15 (average age 25 years) *Data for management staff only. LA15 Return to work and retention Males*= 100%, Females*= 75% rates after parental leave, by gender. *Reporting period: April 2010 ~ May 2012 LA4 Percentage of employees 12.72% covered by collective bargaining agreements. 34 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) Followed as per the requirement of applicable laws and terms of regarding operational employment changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. LA10 Average hours of training per Management Employees: 62.03, where; Females= 58.76, Males= 62.24 year per employee by Non-management Employees: 4.95 (all males) gender, and by employee category. LA13 Composition of governance Board of Directors: All males (between 43 ~ 78 years); 6 Japanese, 1 bodies and breakdown of Pakistani national. employees per employee Management Committee: All males (between 40 ~ 56 years), 6 category according to Japanese, 10 Pakistani nationals (all Management Employees) gender, age group, minority Audit Committee: All males (between 50 ~ 78 years), 2 Japanese, 2 group membership, and Pakistani nationals other indicators of diversity. Product Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer The following practices relating to customer satisfaction are in place: satisfaction, including results 1. Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Survey; done annually. of surveys measuring 2. “Knocking the Door Project”; done monthly to visit customers at customer satisfaction. their door step. Economic EC4 Significant financial None assistance received from government. EC8 Development and impact of The following amount was expanded by the Company (since 2008) for infrastructure investments public benefit: and services provided Year Actual (Rs.) primarily for public benefit 2008-09 7,164,000 through commercial, inkind, or probono engagement. 2009-10 1,024,000 2010-11 838,000 2011-12 1,023,000 35 Hinopak Motors Limited – UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 Details on impact assessment mentioned in Human Rights-Stakeholders Participation & Engagement. Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or Hinopak discarded 199 kg per unit of material for the manufacturing of volume. vehicles. EN2 Percentage of materials used Hinopak discarded 191 kg per unit of recycled material for the that are recycled input manufacturing of vehicles. materials. EN3 Direct energy consumption Hinopak utilized 68,374 liter diesel during the last reporting year 2011by primary energy source. 12 for production process. Society SO2 Percentage and total number 100% Divisions (currently nine) have been assessed for risks related to of business units analyzed for corruption. risks related to corruption. The Audit Committee headed by the chairman is responsible for periodic reporting on such risks to the Board of Directors. SO4 Actions taken in response to No incidents of corruption have been reported to date. incidents of corruption. SO8 Monetary values of None significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 36
