The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Pages 1-2 Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Page 3-4 Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Page 5-6 Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Pages 7-9 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 0 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. GRI indicators represented: HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, 4.8, 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, 4.17, SO 5 Human Rights and the Diamond Industry The heart and soul of the Rapaport group revolves around human rights principles. In an industry often fraught with human rights issues and undefined ethical requirements for mining and sourcing practices, we have made ethical sourcing and human rights a priority both within our own operations and in our dealings with other industry members. The past year has seen many changes in the diamond industry with regard to human rights issues, and Rapaport has maintained our strong non-tolerance policy wherever there has been any concern of human rights abuses. In November of 2011, the Kimberley Process authorized the release of millions of carats of diamonds from the controversial Marange region of Zimbabwe, as well as future production. As we have repeatedly voiced throughout the duration of the Marange conflict within the Kimberley Process, Marange diamonds have been associated with severe human rights abuses and are now under sanctions in the U.S. and E.U. As such, the diamonds are not legal for sale in U.S. and E.U. jurisdictions, in addition to continuing to tread on questionable ethical territory with regard to human rights. In response to the Kimberley Process authorization the Rapaport Group issued a swift trade alert (Appendix A) alerting industry members and advising them to avoid these diamonds. This was followed by a specific press release (Appendix B) and open industry-wide conference call to further explain the Rapaport position and make sure that all members of RapNet, the Rapaport online diamond trading network, understood that they would be removed from the trading network for listing Marange diamonds. Our response to the Kimberley Process announcement was only one incidence in a long history of calls for increased vigilance regarding human rights in the diamond industry. In August of 2011, Rapaport Group Chairman Martin Rapaport published an article, “After Kimberley, Now What,” (Appendix C) reiterating the Rapaport Group position that the Kimberley Process definition of conflict diamonds is insufficient, and outlining a plan for the industry to move forward and address human rights issues beyond the Kimberley Process. The Rapaport International Diamond Conference was held on September 12, 2012 in New York City, and devoted the entire afternoon of the one-day gathering to human rights issues. Bringing together major industry leaders, we featured presentations from the Responsible Jewellery Council, the U.S. State Department, and the GreenShows. As always, our approach was to raise 1 pressing human rights issues and concerns, as well as focus on solutions and productive ways forward. Rapaport Plan for Addressing Human Rights Issues The Rapaport plan for addressing human rights issues in the diamond industry is multifaceted. It consists of several different initiatives addressing a variety of constituencies, including industry and consumer populations. The first of these has been a complete redesign of our Rapaport Fair Trade website, which serves as the portal for our fair trade and ethical sourcing initiatives. To make the site more current and accessible to consumers as well as industry members, we added several new features, such as the “Rapaport Library,” which houses videos, research reports, and thorough analysis of current affairs in language that is understandable by industry members and non-industry alike. Another new feature is “What’s Your Take?,” an interactive blog and discussion forum which provides visitors a place to air concerns, ask questions, and engage in discussion with peers, colleagues and our well-informed staff. As always, we remain accessible to all visitors through a “Contact Us” section, and we make it a priority to respond promptly and thoroughly to any questions, particularly those from industry members relating to human rights and ethical sourcing. (See Appendix D for images from the website) Another recent initiative is our Campaign for Ethical Jewelry. This is a global effort to raise awareness among consumers and industry members regarding human rights issues and the diamond supply chain. The Campaign for Ethical Jewelry will launch at the beginning of June 2012 and will encourage consumers, jewelers and diamond/gold suppliers to take a pledge affirming their commitment to ethical products. The pledge encourages consumers to ask their jewelers, and jewelers in turn to ask their suppliers, about the origins of the jewelry they are selling. Rapaport provides consumers and jewelers with the resources they need to ask the right questions and encourage those who come before them in the supply chain to investigate their products. The long term plan currently in development by Rapaport is a full Rapaport Ethical Certification System. A large portion of our work the past year has been devoted to laying the groundwork for this comprehensive initiative. The goal of the Rapaport Ethical Certification will be to track diamonds from the mine site through to grading and certification. We will work with an independent third party certification to ensure the legitimacy of the system. Though this will require a significant investment of our time and resources, we firmly believe that a comprehensive Ethical Certification System is the way forward for the diamond and jewelry industry. 2 Labor Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Rapaport is committed to adhering to its previously stated position of going beyond all legal requirements to provide fair, flexible and appropriately remunerated employment to its entire permanently employed and freelance workforce across its global offices. We remain steadfast and committed to providing transparent remuneration, flexible working practices and day -to day working conditions with appropriate benefits for all our staff and personnel, which are on the whole in excess of industry standards and minimum legal requirements. Principle 4: The elimination of forced and compulsory labor GRI Indicators Represented: HR7 Rapaport continues to advocate for increased transparency and vigilance to ensure proper labor conditions at mining and manufacturing sites. We firmly disallow the sale of any and all goods on RapNet, our online diamond trading network, which we believe may be associated with forced and compulsory labor or any other unethical practices, defined as human rights violations, significant environmental damage, illegal activities, or sanctions by U.S. or E.U. governments. (Appendix E) Principle 5: Abolition of child labor GRI indicators represented: HR6 Rapaport continues to adhere to all local laws in relation to child labor, and we do not use any forms of child labor. The reduction and elimination of child labor continues to be addressed through the advancement of our ethical diamond certification system and our Campaign for Ethical Jewelry. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3 GRI indicators represented: LA 10 There continues to be no discrimination in the company`s employment practices on the grounds of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, gender, age, or sexual orientation. The company is an equal opportunity employer and the sole criteria for hiring and promotion is based on employee qualifications, performance, abilities and competencies required to do the job. We also remain to committed to being an advocate for fair employment practices throughout the industry through our role as global service providers. 4 Environment Principle 7: Support precautionary approach to environment GRI indicators represented: 3.13 Rapaport has played and continues to play a significant role in encouraging a new concept in the diamond industry: recycled precious gems and metals. Through our Rapaport Auctions division, we encourage the resale of large quantities of loose diamonds to companies that operate around the globe. As the trend of resale grows, the need for newly mined diamonds is diminished. This precautionary approach is being developed further by our team as we work toward the creation of a Recycled Diamond Certificate. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility GRI indicators represented: EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN14, 1.1 As Rapaport works toward the creation of our Recycled Diamond Certificate, we are taking into account the transformative process that any potential recycled diamonds undergo. We are striving to ensure that this process is conducted in an environmentally responsible manner and that any recycled diamonds bearing our certification will be environmentally responsible both in their post-consumer status and throughout their transformative process. Principle 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology GRI indicators represented: EN17 The key environmental goals within Rapaport’s own business structure have focused around office energy, efficiency, transportation and ways to reduce our carbon footprint and this continues to be the focus of our environmental responsibility. Rapaport continues to work on improving the way it does business in a changing environment. The initiatives which have been introduced to promote greater environmental responsibility by using renewable energy sources and to increase energy efficiency (for example, by the use of more energy efficient light bulbs, the turning off of computers, printers, water coolers and urns overnight) have resulted in substantial energy savings. We are beginning to see dividends and the positive benefits which have resulted from the adoption of these measures in the form of reduced utility bills which are now being received by the organization. Printing on both sides of a page whenever possible and only upon recycled paper is now de rigueur in our organization. These endeavors have led to substantial recycling benefits and have significantly reduced indirect energy consumption. 5 The Rapaport organization strives to continue to contribute to a sustainable environment in the years ahead by the adoption of the above and similar environmentally friendly and energy savings initiatives. 6 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery GRI indicators represented: HR 1, HR2, HR 3, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, 4.17, SO2, SO3, SO4, & SO5 The Rapaport Group of Companies firmly believes that all businesses should work against corruption in all its forms. The Rapaport Group remains committed to maintaining high legal and ethical standards in the diamond industry and requires all suppliers of diamonds offered for sale and participants at Rapaport Auctions and traders on our trading networks to meet legal, ethical and our Rapaport minimum human rights standards. The Rapaport Group is unwavering and unflinching in its commitment to an honest, fair, secure, transparent, efficient and competitive market for the trading of diamonds, gems and jewelry and the furthering of its policy of conducting business to the highest moral and ethical standards and business practices in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the Kimberley Process, U.S. Patriot Act, and U.S. Federal Trade Commission Guidelines. Rapaport seeks to do business only with those who share and support its commitment to these values and has instituted a due diligence evaluation and compliance review procedure for all future potential business partners seeking to enter into a strategic business relationship with our organization. No dishonest, illegal and unethical activities or behavior, such as bribery, fraud, corruption, money–laundering, or the trading in conflict or “blood diamonds” are tolerated by any potential business partners or recipients of our services. This is clearly borne out in Rapaport`s RapNet Code of Conduct, Terms of Service and Trading Rules to which all customers and users of our RapNet diamond trading network service must subscribe. The Code of Conduct, Terms of Service, and trading rules are subject to regular review and was revised this year to reflect new Rapaport policies regarding trade in conflict diamonds. (See Appendix E) We are committed to the need for the diamond and jewelry industry to establish realistic sourcing standards based on sustainable legal and ethical principles which we have defined as our Rapaport minimum standard. This is encapsulated in the following statement: “All diamonds that are legal and not directly involved in severe human rights violations should be freely, fairly and legally traded “ In order to participate in Rapaport Auctions or other Rapaport trading activities all diamonds offered for sale must be legitimately sourced. Rapaport`s position regarding ethical standards in the diamond trade is that the diamond and jewelry industry must take full responsibility for their ethical choices and actions and must not 7 delegate their ethical values to trade organizations or others. Rapaport recognizes that ethical standards is about applying a system of universal moral values to one`s decision making and that ethics transcends the law. Being ethical means internalizing your values and doing the right thing by following your conscience. But businesses don’t have souls and don`t have a conscience. Companies are profit motivated simply to do what they have to do to make money. Fortunately in ethical societies the things that companies have to do to make money force them to adopt ethical principles. Rapaport believes that society needs to create demand for ethical products and destroy demand for unethical products by getting consumers to buy into one`s proposed ethical values. The application of ethical standards that transcends law is a business matter driven by consumer demand. Society gets the exact level of ethical value it is willing to pay for. Rapaport espouses the view that from a company and consumer perspective ethics must be considered as another added value service or product. Ethical products, like ethical diamonds and jewelry, must be treated as a sustainable business opportunity that requires real demand. Business ethics is not another form of ethics, ethics is another form of business. Rapaport does not tolerate any fraudulent activity on its website and trading platforms and condemns all fraudulent diamond trading including the trading of fraudulent grading certificates. Such trading is a clear violation of the RapNet Terms of Service and user agreement. Violators will be removed from the RapNet trading network. This year, two RapNet users were suspended from the trading network after being found to be trading in sanctioned diamonds from the Marange region of Zimbabwe. Rapaport has not hesitated to take immediate necessary steps to eradicate the trading of fraudulent grading certificates when such illegal activity was identified to have taken place on its network and an immediate caution and warning was issued to other RapNet users and subscribers alerting them of this illegal activity and for them to be watchful of such illegal practice in the future. [Performance Indicator – SO4]. The actions and activities taken to achieve the above: 1. Rapaport`s continued commitment to legal compliance and ethical business dealings and practices enshrined in our Code of Conduct, Terms of Service and Trading Rules and other core documentation detailing the terms of service and use rules applicable for trading on our RapNet service to which all customers and users of our RapNet diamond trading network (“RapNet Members “) must adhere. These rules and regulations ensure that diamond trading takes place on our trading platforms in full compliance with all applicable laws, legal and ethical business practices, and that all aspects of the Kimberley Process and anti-money laundering regulations relating to the diamond industry are followed; 8 2. The reissuing of an updated Code of Conduct, Terms of Service and Trading Rules to reflect the above values (See Appendix E); 3. Continued regular monitoring and auditing of group activities and business dealings to ensure proper and strict compliance and adherence to laws and to serve to promote sound and ethical business practices; 4. Conducting of ongoing employee educational programs to re‐enforce and strengthen employee knowledge and methodology for carrying out of employee functions for customer identity verifications, checks and procedures for detection of money laundering activities, fictitious and fraudulent transactions; 5. Announcement and ongoing preparation of the Rapaport Ethical Certification System, aimed at legitimatizing and making available all diamonds that are not involved in human rights abuses or other unethical activity; 6. The publication of articles, press releases and speeches on ethical issues in the diamond industry; 7. Holding of conferences to promote discussion and dialogue on the application of ethics to the diamonds trade. An afternoon session was devoted to this topic at the Rapaport 2011 International Diamond Conference held in New York on September 12, 2011. Additionally, Rapaport Fair Trade Conferences were held at the Baselworld trade show and the JCK Las Vegas Trade Show in March and June of 2011. 9 Index of GRI Performance Indicators Relevant to the Implementation of the Global Compact Principles 8. GRI Description Reported Pages Indicator Under HR 1 Description of policies, guidelines, corporate structure, Principles 1, 2 1-4 & and procedures to deal with all aspects of human rights & 10 7-10 relevant to operations, including monitoring mechanisms and results HR 2 Evidence of consideration of human rights impacts as part Principles 1, 2 1-4 & of investment and procurement decisions, including & 10 7-10 selection of suppliers/contractors and customers HR 3 Description of policies and procedures to evaluate and Principles 1, 2 1-4 & address human rights performance with the supply chain & 10 7-10 and contractors and customers, including monitoring systems and results of monitoring HR 4 Description of global policy and procedures/ programmes Principles 1&2 1-4 preventing all forms of discrimination in operations, including monitoring systems and results of monitoring HR 6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Principle 5 5 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor HR 7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Principle 4 5 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor LA 10 Description of equal opportunity policies or programmes, Principle 6 5 as well as monitoring systems to ensure compliance and results of monitoring 3.13 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Principle 7 6 approach or principle is addressed by the organization EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary source Principle 8 6 EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Principle 8 6 EN 5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Principle 8 6 improvements EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energy Principle 8 6 based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Principle 8 6 reductions achieved 10 EN 14 Significant environmental impact of principal products Principle 8 6 and services 1.1 Statement of the organization`s vision and strategy Principle 8 6 regarding its contribution to sustainable development EN 17 Initiatives to use renewable energy sources and to Principle 9 6 increase energy efficiency 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Principle 1& 10 1-4 & codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 7-10 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing Principle 10 7-10 the organization`s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest performance body`s Principle 1& 10 1, 7own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 10 environmental , and social performance 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social Principle 1& 10 1, 7charters, principles, or other indicatives to which the 10 organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Membership in associations ( such as industry Principle 1-4 & associations) and /or national /international advocacy 1, 7&10 7-10 organizations in which the organization: has positions in government bodies/participates in projects or committees/provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues or views membership as strategic 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Principle 1& 10 1-4, stakeholder engagement and how the organization has 7-10 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting SO 2 Description of the policy, procedures/management Principle 10 7-10 systems, and compliance mechanisms for organizations and employees addressing bribery and corruption SO 3 Percentage of employees trained in organization`s antiPrinciple 10 7-10 corruption policies and procedures SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Principle 10 7-10 SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Principle 1& 10 1-4 & development and lobbying 7-10 11 Appendix Appendix A: “TRADE ALERT: Marange Diamonds, Human Rights Abuses,” Rapaport News, www.diamonds.net, November 3, 2011. Appendix B: “Rapaport Calls on Diamond Trade to Avoid Marange Diamonds,” Rapaport Press Release, www.diamonds.net, November 22, 2011. Appendix C: “After Kimberley, Now What,” Martin Rapaport, Rapaport Magazine, August 2011. Appendix D: Homepage, Rapaport Library, What’s Your Take, www.rapaportfairtrade.com, accessed May 30, 2012. Appendix E: RapNet Trading Rules, www.rapnet.com, accessed May 30, 2012 12
