SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 1 CANTINA SOCIALE DI CANELLI UN Global Compact Communication on Progress AUGUST 2011 THE PROJECT OF A SHARED COP OICCE declares that the Cantina Sociale di Canellli is a participating company in the SEVEN Group for Social, environmental and Economic Sustainability in Viticulture and Oenology This document is based on the Collective Communication on Progress 2010-2011 drafted by OICCE Gruppo SEVEN in August 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 2 Index pag. 3 The United Nations Global Compact pag. 4 The Ten principles pag. 5 L’Antica Cantina di Canelli pag. 6 Declaration by Roberto Marmo pag. 7 Connection table with the collective COP pag. 9 The project of a shared COP pag. 11 The Governance Projects pag. 19 The Environmental Projects pag. 33 The Economic Projects pag. 43 The Social Projects 2 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 3 The United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact The Global Compact is a multi-stakeholder network that unites governments, enterprises, agencies of the United Nations, trade unions and organizations of the civil society, with the aim of promoting on a world scale the culture of Corporate Social Responsibility – CSR. The initiative was proposed in January 1999 by the then General Secretary of the United Nations, Koﬁ Annan, in occasion of his speech in Davos at the World Economic Forum. In that seat, Koﬁ Annan invited the leaders of the world economy to be part of a Global Compact to support the nine universal principles concerning human rights, labour laws and the protection of the environment; in June 2004, a tenth principle about the ﬁght against corruption has been added to the nine original ones. Ever since it was operationally launched at the United Nations Headquarters, in July 2000, the Global Compact has developed rapidly and it presents itself today as the ﬁrst global forum called upon to tackle the most critic aspects of globalization, through the promotion of the CSR culture. The main idea of the Global Compact is, in fact, that the companies that have a longterm strategic vision oriented towards social responsibility and innovation can contribute to the new phase of globalization characterised by sustainability and international cooperation, in a multistakeholder perspective with positive impacts on the people employed in the company, on all the phases of the supply chain and of the value chain, on the civil society as a whole. The dispositions of the Global Compact request that the participants give an annual communication on the progresses obtained in the implementation of the principles of the Global Compact, offering a link or a description of their annual communications, on the website of the Global Compact at the United Nations and/or on the websites of the Local Networks. In the month of September 2010 the Cantina Sociale di Canelli has joined the Global Compact of the United Nations. This adhesion has been formally communicated by the President of the Cantina Sociale di Canelli to the General Secretary of the United Nations and the Cantina Sociale has committed itself to respect and support the ten principles both directly and promoting the adoption and the respect within its own sphere of commercial inﬂuence. Among the commitments taken on by the Cantina Sociale di Canelli there is also the drafting of an annual report (Communication on Progress – CoP) eventually, like in our case, using the general chart or collective CoP prepared by the SEVEN Group of OICCE, that the Antica Cantina Sociale di Canelli is part of. The table in the following page is the access key to the Communication o n Progress, linking the principles of the Global Compact with the 24 projects prepared by the SEVEN Group, and postponing the description of the actions taken and of the obtained results to the pages of the respective sections contained in the collective CoP predisposed by the Seven Group. SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 3 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 4 The ten principles The ten principles The Global Compact encourages the enterprises of the whole world to create an economic, social and environmental framework aimed at promoting a healthy and sustainable global economy that guarantees the opportunity of sharing its beneﬁts to everybody. For this reason, the Global Compact asks businesses and organizations that join it to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of inﬂuence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. These are globally shared principles since they derive from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Human Rights Principle I: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle II: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle III: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle IV: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle V: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle VI: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle VII: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle VIII: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle IX: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle X: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 5 L’Antica Cantina di Canelli L’Antica Cantina di Canelli Canelli is situated in the middle of the High Monferrato. The landscape that surrounds it is strongly marked by the vine coltivation, where the deep marks of an economy and of an antique tradition based on the production of wine and grapes can be seen. It is the second municipality for its importance after the capital of the province and it’s an oenological centre of primary importance and greatness. The strong tie between the city of Canelli and the world of wine can be easily found in the underground wine cellars of the area. For their importance and their use they have been included in the candidacy demand as World Heritage of the wine landscape of the South of Piedmont advanced by the Provinces of Asti, Alessandria and Cuneo. In the ﬁrst decades of the previous century the development of agricultural cooperation gave an impulse to rational forms for the conduction of vineyards, the wine-growing and the marketing of products that saw the wine-growers as the main protagonists of the whole production and distribution network. Starting from that in 1933, from the commitment of a small group of wine-growers, the Cooperative Cantina di Canelli was born. At the end of the 40s, the members became 150: the Cantina started then to bottle its own wine – that until then had been sold as bulk – and it grew, diversifying the destination of the areas among grape-squeezing, wine-making and bottling. In the 80s, 450.000 miriagrammes of grapes were conferred by the members, with a production of a million and a half bottles. Today the Cantina Sociale di Canelli represents an important productive and commercial reality that gives a strong contribution to the “Civilisation of Moscato”, and that exports about 80% of bottles on the international market. The main export markets of Moscato are Switzerland, the United States of America, Japan and Korea. The professional seriousness, the pride and the attention towards territory and society have lead the Cantina Sociale to sign an important agreement with the Dutch company Baarsma and with Pernod Ricard Italia, that has permitted the creation of new job opportunities, the drafting of industrial projects for the new millennium, and has permitted to face new markets such as The Netherlands, Great Britain and China. The aims at the basis of the constitution of the Cantina Canelli deﬁne the business value. The cooperative Cantina Canelli was born to have a: social character: to protect the group of members ﬂexible character: to rapidly adapt the management ﬂuxes in order to follow and answer the needs of all the stakeholders: members, clients, suppliers, territory, environment. A value chain whose balance is the fundamental requirement for the cooperative’s growth and functioning. economic character: to guarantee an income to the members that comes from the work done by the cooperative environmental character: to plan a sustainable development. SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 5 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 6 Dichiarazione del Presidente Declaration by Roberto Marmo President In September 2010, the Cantina Sociale di Canelli joined the United Nations Global Compact, committing itself to respect and promote its ten principles, ofﬁcially signing the Global Compact in occasion of the meeting on 14th September in New York with the Global Compact Ofﬁces. We believe that the development of a sustainability process has to be done within structured networks, able to reinforce reciprocally all the partners of the chain. For this reason, we share the project of presenting our actions within the collective Cop that has been drafted for the ﬁrst time on this occasion. Therefore, our Co-operative has developed a series of actions for the promotion and the carrying out of the principles of sustainable development, in collaboration with OICCE and within the multistakeholders group SEVEN. These principles implicate the responsibility of conjugating economic efﬁciency with social equity and protection of the environment, all managed by a rigorous governavce. For this reason, the projects connected to sustainable development have been reunited in four big ﬁelds: Governance Territory and Environment Society Economy We think that being part of the Global Compact is not only a symbol of our commitment, but it’s a positive way to ensure that this commitment for sustainable development becomes part of a process of profound transformation both for our co-operative and for all the production chain of the wine of Piedmont. Roberto Marmo President Antica Cantina Sociale di Canelli 6 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 7 Connection table with the collective COP Connection table with the collective COP In the following table the activities of the SEVEN Project in which the cantina Sociale di Canelli has been engaged in the period 2010-2011 are indicated, divided according to the principles of the Global Compact. For each activity a reference to the collective document of the SEVEN Project is indicated and the role played by the business is also present. Human Rights Principle VIII: undertake initiatives to Principle I: Businesses should support promote greater environmental responand respect the protection of internatiosibility; and nally proclaimed human rights; and Project SEVEN/GOV/1 Partecipant Project SEVEN/ECO/2 Partecipant Project SEVEN/GOV/2 Partecipant Project SEVEN/SOC/1 Partecipant Project SEVEN/GOV/4 Partecipant Project SEVEN/SOC/5 Partecipant Project SEVEN/AMB/1 Partecipant Project SEVEN/AMB/2 HEAD PARTNER Project SEVEN/AMB/3 HEAD PARTNER Principle II: make sure that they are not Project SEVEN/AMB/5 HEAD PARTNER complicit in human rights abuses. Project SEVEN/AMB/7 HEAD PARTNER Project SEVEN/SOC/5 Partecipant Project SEVEN/ECO/2 Partecipant Project SEVEN/SOC/1 Partecipant Project SEVEN/SOC/2 HEAD PARTNER Labour Project SEVEN/SOC/9 HEAD PARTNER Principle III: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to colPrinciple IX: encourage the development lective bargaining; and diffusion of environmentally Principle IV: the elimination of all forms friendly technologies. of forced and compulsory labour; Project SEVEN/AMB/2 HEAD PARTNER Principle V: the effective abolition of Project SEVEN/AMB/7 HEAD PARTNER child labour; Project SEVEN/ECO/2 Partecipant Principle VI: the elimination of discrimiProject SEVEN/SOC/6 HEAD PARTNER nation in respect of employment and Project SEVEN/SOC/8 Partecipant occupation. Anti-Corruption Environment Principle X: Businesses should work Principle VII: Businesses should support against corruption in all its forms, inclua precautionary approach to environding extortion and bribery. mental challenges; Project SEVEN/SOC/5 Partecipant Project SEVEN/AMB/2 HEAD PARTNER Project SEVEN/AMB/3 HEAD PARTNER Project SEVEN/AMB/7 HEAD PARTNER Project SEVEN/ECO/2 Partecipant Project SEVEN/SOC/6 HEAD PARTNER SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 7 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 8 8 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 9 THE PROJECT OF A SHARED COP SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 10 SEVEN INTRODUCTION THE PROJECT OF A SHARED COP After a millenary history, one of the new frontiers that the oenological and oenomechanic chain has to meet today is that of sustainable development. Sustainable development is a development that satisfies today’s needs without compromising the possibility of future generations to satisfy theirs. The concept of sustainability is not only referred to ecological problems, but also and especially to wider and more necessary social, political and cultural changes, that request the development of new methods, individual habits and professional abilities. In 2001, UNESCO has developed the concept of sustainable development indicating that “cultural diversity is necessary for humanity as biodiversity is for nature. Cultural diversity is one of the roots of development meaning not only economic growth, but also as a means to lead a more satisfying existence on an intellectual, emotional, moral and spiritual level”. to sustainable development. One of the reasons of the choice The different protagonists of the oenological chain are of the name is exactly this: to indicate in an acronymous finanshowing a growing interest towards sustainability. This way of cial, social and environmental sustainability. acting represents a new form of awareness and responsibility Being part of the SEVEN group enables to insert oneself in towards tomorrow, clients and consumers, towards the territory a network of bodies that intend to enact a policy of integrated and the environment, towards society as a whole. sustainability, because they believe that acting in a coordinated Taking together the trip that goes from the vineyard to the way makes their activities much more effective: on the other bottle, it becomes even more evident that a bottle of wine brouhand, it is well know that the group is always more valuable ght to the table for a party of to be combined with a daily meal than the sum of the parts. is the fruit of the joint work of many people. We are aware that The participation is open to all the bodies that are part of it is born not only thanks to the wine cellar that has produced OICCE, but also to subjects that still are not part of it and that the wine, but thanks to a complex network of elements that operate within the oenological chain. interact together in a positive way. The only necessary quality is the will to commit oneself and This consideration, apparently simple but actually very to coordinate one’s own engagement with the network’s, with important, is the element of cohesion of a group of enterprises, the aim of contributing to the dissemination of sustainable that have decided voluntarily to collaborate to improve everydevelopment practices. body’s work. Furthermore, in order to measure the obtained progresses It is the conviction that is at the base of OICCE’s work, and in this action, each participant is asked to take part in the perioit is the starting element that, within OICCE, has led to the birth dical assessment concerning the coherence between the funcand the development of the group that has called itself tioning of the bodies and the principles of sustainable develop“SEVEN” and that represents the oenological chain committed ment (see the relevant article). Duty of the organizational structure of SEVEN within OICCE is to offer to the participants of the group a space to share ideas and resources and a concrete help in the coordination of the enacted projects. For further information, please contact the OICCE office. Segreteria organizzativa: tel: 0141.82.26.07 fax: 0141.82.93.14 e-mail: info@oicce.it internet: www.oicce.it 10 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 11 THE GOVERNANCE PROJECTS The definition of sustainable development, given by the 1. The ability to govern one’s own organization Brundtland Commission in 1987, is simple: Sustainable develop2. The involvement with the community ment is a development that meets present needs without compro3. Environment and its protection mising the possibility of future generations to meet their own needs. 4. Human rights Simple definition but not always easy to implement and achieve. 5. Labour practices and mutual trust A product, a machine, an event, an achievement, but also food 6. Honesty and ethics in relations or wine is sustainable if it comes from the superposition of three 7. Respect for consumers and the commitment to offer principles: it must be economically viable, environmentally sound them the best possible product. and socially equitable. Companies and organizations must be socially responsible, and Some open-minded entrepreneurs have recognized that their to be so they must try to commit themselves on seven fronts. Also reputation and the reputation of their companies, the trust that their for this reason the word SEVEN was chosen for the OICCE project, clients have in them, and also the bottom lines of their actions, are to remember that they are exactly the seven fronts of corporate all concepts closely linked to good corporate citizenship. social responsibility: These entrepreneurs that produce machinery, equipment, gas, coadjuvants, materials; that bottle wines, sparkling wines, liqueurs and brandies, that are consultants to companies, that provide services, have joined forces to work together on concrete projects, achievable, shared in order to help the growth of their business and of the whole sector. They are the entrepreneurs who, inspired by the words that Kofi Annan said in 1998: Let us choose to unite the power of markets with the authority of universal ideals” have chosen to combine the power markets with the authority of universal ideals. For this reason they are building together the future of the chain, they are working to let everyone know about their achievements and their products. These are the people who operate within OICCE, people who animate the SEVEN group, that work together on concrete, shared projects, able to improve the life and work of all. The concept of governance generally indicates the structure with which a specific phenomenon is governed. In the political sphere it indicates an innovative way of governance and territorial development, characterized by a high degree of cooperation between institutions and civil society actors. As part of business management, however, for governance one refers to the model of decision making, of company control, of the development of systems that help the company itself to meet the expectations of those who have interest in it (the stakeholders). In this sense, the four governance projects of the SEVEN group are intended to contribute to good governance and to the effectiveness of the implemented sustainability policies, measuring the progress of the organizations towards sustainable development, building and protecting the identity of the group, facilitating the management of the accession to the Global Compact, offering opportunities for sharing ideas. SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 11 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 12 SEVEN The results of the first application of the research were preQUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE COHERENCE sented in April 2010 to the Graduate School St. Anna of Pisa, OF THE ORGANIZATIONS WORKING WITH in the final conference of the COSMIC project. An article for the THE PRINCIPLES OF 33° OIV Congress has also been published, presented in Tbilisi, in Georgia. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Project SEVEN/GOV/3 A very rare analysis in the context of the international debaProject SEVEN/GOV/1 te is about the bond that can exist between the individual enterCREATION AND METHOD OF USE OF A prise that aims to achieve the goal of sustainable development and the wider network which it is part of, being the latter made COLLECTIVE LABEL up of a chain, a consortium of companies, cooperatives, or of professional or social networks. In particular, the wine chain is a key model for understanding the role of small businesses; An individual label has a distinctive function: its task is to Project SEVEN/GOV/2 furthermore the existence of the network itself is critical for the enable to distinguish a product or service of an enterprise from future survival of the individual organizations that are involved. the others present on the market. In the researches on sustainable development the analysis A collective label, however, has a guarantee function: its task concerning how the second level organizational form makes is to ensure the origin, nature or quality of the products or servieasier (or more complex) the orientation of the individual orgaces that expose it. nization towards the concept of sustainable enterprise are also The registration of collective labels is granted to those very few. Finally, the way in which social or environmental subjects who perform the function of guaranteeing the origin, sustainability practices can impact on the innovation of products or processes, on the characteristics of the service and how, in this complex context, small businesses can reasonably approach sustainable development has been studied even less in depth. The project consists in the development of a system of quantitative assessment to be carried out at regular intervals through the administration and analysis of a questionnaire, which allows to test the closeness of those involved in the SEVEN Group towards the principles of sustainable development. The model, based on a self-assessment system, includes Governance, Environmental, Social and Economic aspects, in order to give an overall assessment on indicators related to sustainable development; it therefore allows to review the progress of individual organizations on the path of sustainable development itself. nature or quality of goods or services, and, that by virtue of such The model also allows to measure the process of moving registration may allow the use of such labels to manufacturers or towards an ideal situation, and for this reason it can be a stardealers that meet certain requirements. ting point for companies that want to deal with the ISO26000 Usually the collective label is applied by bodies or associascheme. It is intentionally a general model, able to take into tions to provide certainty as to provenance and quality assuranaccount the different realities of the complex world of oenology: ce. The use of the label must be granted in accordance with the laboratories, equipment manufacturers, service providers, and rules of use, attached to the request for protection, produced by of course farms, social wine cellars or bottlers. the body or association in the phase of the first registration. In case of an application for registration of a collective label a copy of the regulation governing the use of the label must be attached, as well as that that is indicated for the national trade mark. The initiative called “Creation and method of use of a collective label” has the aim of creating and regulating a collective label, with the purpose of giving a common identity to the group of organizations involved in SEVEN and bring benefits to the same organizations as part of the reputation and appeal to potential customers. In fact, thanks to the attractiveness of the collective label (tied to the creation of a shared identity of the network), the project will provide organizations affiliated with the label the opportunity to increase the value of the products that they offer on the market. 12 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 13 SEVEN DRAFTING OF A COLLECTIVE COP By joining the Global Compact a company undertakes to annual Communications, using the channels typically used to Project SEVEN/GOV/3 comply with several requirements: communicate with them in relation to the objectives and the 1. implement all necessary changes in order that the Global economic, social and environmental commitments of the corpoCompact and its principles become part of the strategy, culture rate action. and daily operations of the company; 2. promote and disseminate the Global Compact and its The project of the drafting of a collective COP has the goal principles through communication channels such as, for examof designing a collective instrument for the dissemination of the ple, press releases, public interventions, etc..; COP concerning the Global Compact member organizations 3. report back to its stakeholders, on an annual basis, on that are part of the Seven Group. A collection of charts will be Project SEVEN/GOV/2 progress made in implementing the ten principles and in partimade that will show all the projects implemented by the Group, cipating in partnership projects in support to United Nations for each of which the developed principles of the Global goals. Compact will be shown. The COP of the single organization will A company that participates in the Global Compact must be formed by the collection and by an accompanying text that implement several operations: will indicate which projects the organization has participated in, Identify areas of responsibility of the company (possibly its role and the principles on which its commitment was coninvolving stakeholders); centrated. Establish and share goals for improvement; The mode in question prevents the individual organizations Implement programs and activities that make the achieveto spend time and energy for the preparation of an individual ment of established goals possible; COP, allows to highlight the synergies built by the group, proReport annually on activities and achievements in purtects the individual commitment and responsibility of the orgasuing the goals themselves. nizations. The UN Global Compact Network, interviewed in The annual Communications (known as COP, September 2010, granted a trial period of two years. If it sucCommunications on Progress) are the means by which compaceeds, this method of drafting a joint COP will provide a best nies that have joined the Global Compact constantly inform practice for the entire global network. their stakeholders about their activities and achievements in implementing the ten principles. The companies joining the Global Compact are required to prepare annually an annual Communication, to share it with their stakeholders and publish it on the Global Compact website. If this does not happen, the companies are initially labelled on the website of the Global Compact as non-communicating and subsequently excluded from the initiative. The delisted companies, if they want to return in the initiative, are required to repeat the same procedure for accession by sending at the same time their annual Communication. Among the objectives of the annual Communications there are those of ensuring the credibility of the initiative, sharing and providing inspiration to other participants in the Global Compact, to be themselves a driver for change. In addition, the COP promote the establishment of a structured policy of corporate citizenship by the company, ensure the involvement of top management, facilitate the identification of risk factors and opportunities of the entrepreneurial activity, encourage the dissemination and the sharing of information on issues of corporate citizenship within the company, encourage continuous improvement by measuring the obtained results, through the use of specific indicators. One element to always keep in mind is that the main recipients of the annual Communications are the stakeholders of the company, and only in second instance the Global Compact Office in New York or the Focal Point of the local network. It is not enough to transmit the annual Communication to the office of the Global Compact in New York or to the Focal Point of the local Network to be considered truly compliant: companies are required to share with their stakeholders the content of their SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 13 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 14 SEVEN Project SEVEN/GOV/1 CANELLI DIALOGS ENCOUNTERS WITH LEADING FIGURES IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The purpose of the initiative Canelli Dialogs is to provide Project SEVEN/GOV/4 an opportunity for organizations in the oenological sector to get in touch with global leading figures in sustainable development, so as to facilitate their approach to this issue and increase common knowledge. The mode is that of the meeting-dialogue, as suggested by the name of the initiative, which foresees a calendar of annual events in the autumn. In 2010, the host of Canelli Dialogs was Patrice Robichon, scientific adviser and manager of the sustainability policies for the Pernod-Ricard Group, which held a dialogue on the theme of the sober wine cellar . The meeting, sponsored by OICCE, was held Nov. 12th at the Council Chamber of the Municipality of Canelli, with the objective of discussing in general about the methodologies for the protection of food products during processing (methods designed to ensure respect of the stakeholders and of the sustainability principles), but also to provide insights with respect to the specific topic of how to design a bottling line inspired by principles of social and environmental sustainability. The main report was introduced by the reflections of Marco Gabusi, Mayor of Canelli; Moreno Soster, President of OICCE, Marco Frey, Chairperson of the Global Compact Network Italy, Luca Cristofaro, manager of the corporate social responsibility area of Cittadinanzattiva Piemonte; Pierstefano Berta, Industrial Director of Pernod-Ricard Italy. Robichon's speech examined a number of innovative methods of production and protection of food products, that can be adopted in the design of bottling lines of the oenological sector, which have the advantage of being fully sustainable in economic, social and environmental terms and at the same time of reducing the risks, costs and waste for the manufacturing company. From the ultra-clean production site to the sober one through an effective management of the risk of contamination and dampness: this is in summary the path traced by Robichon in his report. Through the experience of the French consortium of companies UNIR, innovative technologies to ensure the protection of food products from unwanted microbiological activities have been tested, while preserving the characteristics of production (also in terms of local tradition) and using special methods for the isolation of the transformation areas characterized by a reduced or zero environmental impact. This will protect the interest of consumers for the quality of the products, that of society as a whole for the protection of the environment and at the same time that of the company for the reduction of costs and waste. The report aroused a keen interest in the public, which saw representatives of these companies and organizations involved in the SEVEN network and therefore directly involved in the chain of sustainable oenological production. 14 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 15 Project sheet QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE Project SEVEN/GOV/1 COHERENCE OF THE ORGANIZATIONS WORKING WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Governance Field SEVEN/GOV/1 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT: Starting from November 2009 HEAD PARTNERS: OICCE, Pernod Ricard Italia DESCRIPTION The project consists in the development of a system of quantitative assessment to be carried out at regular intervals through the administration and analysis of a questionnaire, which allows to test the closeness of those involved in the SEVEN Group towards the principles of sustainable development. The model includes Governance, Environmental, Social and Economic aspects, in order to give an overall assessment on indicators related to sustainable development. The results promote awareness of the participating organizations concerning these points. A periodic review every two years is foreseen. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: --Financial advantages: --Social advantages: --ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: Related to the potential extension of the network due to the contact with external companies involved in the evaluation of their own closeness to sustainable development Depth: Related to the diffusion of best practices within the productive chain Risk reduction: --GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☐ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☒ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☐ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☒ Accountability ☒ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☐ Respect for stakeholder interests ☐ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 15 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 16 Project sheet CREATION AND METHOD OF USE OF A Project SEVEN/GOV/2 Project SEVEN/GOV/3 COLLECTIVE LABEL Governance Field SEVEN/GOV/2 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT: Decision taken during the OICCE assembly November 2010 HEAD PARTNERS: OICCE, Studio Torta, Edizioni OICCE DESCRIPTION The initiative has the aim of creating and regulating the use of a collective label, with the dual purpose of giving a common identity to the group of organizations involved in SEVEN and bring beneﬁts to the same organizations as part of the reputation and appeal to potential customers. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: Sensitization concerning recycling Financial advantages: Reduction of the sum of the waste fees Social advantages: Involvement of the community in relation to a collective problem ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: --Depth: Possibility of increasing the value of the products with the label Risk reduction: Accountability for the stakeholders. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☐ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☒ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☐ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☒ Accountability ☒ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☐ Respect for stakeholder interests ☐ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights 16 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 17 Project sheet DRAFTING OF A COLLECTIVE COP Project SEVEN/GOV/3 ACCEPTED BY THE GLOBAL COMPACT Governance Field SEVEN/GOV/3 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT: Proposed to the Global Compact in September 2010 HEAD PARTNERS: OICCE, Cantina Sociale di Canelli, Pernod Ricard Italia, Cittadinanzattiva DESCRIPTION The project aims to design a collective Communication on Progress (COP) for the organizations member of the Global Compact that are part of the Seven Group. The mode in question avoids that the individual organizations have to spend time and energy for the drafting of an individual COP, it allows to highlight the synergies built by the group, it protects individual commitment and responsibility of the organizations. The UN Global Compact Network, met in September 2010, granted a trial period of two years and it has dedicated a resource to follow the initiative. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: --Financial advantages: Saving of time and resources Social advantages: Strengthening of collective accountability of the network and of the consumers’ trust ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: Related to the beneﬁts for companies currently outside the network (in particular SMEs) that are listed in the Global Compact Depth: Related to the institutionalization of the network and the strengthening of internal links, also through the membership to the Global Compact of the companies belonging to the network that are not yet members Risk reduction: --GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☐ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☐ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☐ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☒ Accountability ☒ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☒ Respect for stakeholder interests ☐ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 17 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 18 Project sheet «CANELLI DIALOGS». ENCOUNTERS Project SEVEN/GOV/4 WITH LEADING FIGURES IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Governance Field SEVEN/GOV/1 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT: Starting from November 2009 HEAD PARTNERS: Municipality of Canelli, OICCE DESCRIPTION The initiative consists in the implementation of annual meetings with worldwide leading ﬁgures in the ﬁeld of sustainable development. The purpose is to promote the adhesion of the organizations of the oenological sector to the principles of sustainable development and increase their knowledge. In November 2010 Patrice Robichon has been the guest of the initiative, reporting on the theme The sober wine cellar”. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: --Financial advantages: --Social advantages: Spreading of knowledge ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: Related to the attractiveness guaranteed by the themes and by the quality of the guests Depth: Strengthening of the internal relations of the network and dissemination of knowledge including operational knowledge Risk reduction: --GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☐ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☒ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☐ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☐ Accountability ☐ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☒ Respect for stakeholder interests ☐ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights 18 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 19 THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS The research of a development modality that is sustainable from an environmental point of view is an absolute necessity and it will be more and more so in the future. There are unfortunately many signs (global pollution, concentration of CO2, population growth, resources’ availability, productive output of enterprises) that lead us to think that we are very close to the point of non-return. The situation of the emissions of CO2 in particular, as it is well known, is representative: in the last few years the global concentration level has continued to grow well over the safety level, even though there are been political decision at a global level. From this point of view, the responsibility of enterprises is significant and from these there must be a strong commitment towards the environmental sustainability of their businesses. Environmental sustainability is the ability of preserving in time the environment in which we live and its three main functions: be a direct font of wellness, be a supplier of resources, receive waste. Within a territorial system environmental sustainability means the ability of promoting the environment as a distinctive element of the territory, guaranteeing at the same time the safeguard and the renovation of natural resources and of the cultural and economic patrimony. The always growing social pressure to reduce the risks and the environmental impacts tied to the human activities on air, water and soil, represents an important stimulus towards change both for the markets and for technologies. In this field the enterprises of the oenological and oenomechanic chain have created some work groups aimed at singling out possible interventions for the decrease of emissions and the protection of the environment. The main projects are aimed at carrying out specific activities aimed towards reducing consumptions; energy saving; improvement of energetic efficiency; substitution of polluting fonts with others with a lower impact or with renewable ones; recycling. In particular, the first analysis for the creation of an experimental phytodepuration system for wine cellars represents an important step forwards for the management of waste waters. The same importance can be given to the agreement that the Consortium OICCE Energia has signed for the development of renewable energy through the R.E.C.S. system and the elaboration of an energetic check, that permits an effective analysis of the company consumption. SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 19 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 20 SEVEN PROMOTION OF RECYCLING sensitization initiatives concerning recycling have been carried out for citizens but held in the work places. A reusable cloth bag has also been done, to use for daily purchases. The project called “Promotion of recycling” is an initiative Project SEVEN/AMB/1 The advantages tied to the prosecution of the project are aimed at promoting recycling as a environmental sustainability connected to the sensitization concerning recycling, the reductool. tion of the sum of the waste fees, the reduction of the garbage Environmental sustainability is the ability of preserving in taxations, the direct involvement of the community in relation to time the environment and its three main functions: be a direct a collective problem. font of wellness, be a supplier of resources for the existence of living beings, receive their waste. In relation to a territorial system, environmental sustainability acquires the meaning the ability of promoting the environment as a distinctive element of the territory, guaranteeing at the same time the safeguard and the renovation of natural resources and of the cultural and economic patrimony. The social pressure to reduce the risks and the environmental impacts tied to the human activities is always growing and it represents an important stimulus towards change both for the markets and for technologies. In this field the enterprises of the oenological and oenomechanic chain have created some work groups aimed at singling out possible interventions for the decrease of emissions and the protection of the environment. The main projects are aimed towards reducing consumptions; energy saving; improvement of energetic efficiency; substitution of polluting fonts with others with a lower impact or with renewable ones; recycling. In 2010 a workshop called “Recycling in the oenological chain” has been organised (with the collaboration of the Waste Management Office of the Municipality of Canelli and ASP, Public Services Enterprise S.p.A.). The aim was to train the operators of the chain so that they could develop an active REDUCTION OF THE CONCENTRATIONS OF SUSapproach towards waste management of the oenological and PENDED SOLIDS IN THE WASTE WATERS WITH A oenomechanic enterprises (discard, underproducts, packaging) in order to respect the environmental legislation and the safeDISCONTINUOUS FLOTATION guard of health and hygiene in the work places, with a particular attention towards correct management methodologies. SYSTEM In particular the waste register, the waste land office, the collection rules, the production control, the collection and the stocking, the administrative management and the disposal The flotation is a solid-liquid separation system that consists in Project SEVEN/AMB/2 have been discussed. accelerating the rising to the surface of solids and oils and fats preThe occasion was also useful to present the theme of the sent in water thanks to very small air bubbles. These bubbles introsensitization of waste through recuperation and recycling of the duced in the fluid stick to the extraneous substances present, subproducts, as well as the correct management of special taking them to the surface, from where they are then taken away Project SEVEN/AMB/3 waste. with a continuous cleaning system. Furthermore, during the Safety and environment Week, The production of micro bubbles is done saturating with pressured air a percentage of the re-circulated fluid from the end of the system; this flux is reintroduced at atmospheric pressure at the beginning of the system, where there will be the nude creation of bubbles. When the oily substances o the suspensions are present, they compare in emulsified or colloidal form: therefore, the flotation process has to be paired with a flocculation treatment suitable for the breakage of this emulsion. The flotation permits to obtain products with extremely low suspended solids tenors and, in the oenological industry it is usually used on musts to help the following filtration and fermentation processes. In this case the technique of the flotation permits a good rationalization of the clarification process of the must, determining financial and quality advantages. This technique is in fact faster than the classic clarification systems, with time, energy and adjuvants saving; therefore it obtains very high clarification 20 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 21 SEVEN ces, in fact, remain active all year, and therefore also in the period of unloading absence. These types of systems used by wine cellars can highlight some difficulties in the depuration of the entered waste, connected to the input of solid processing waste (residue of leaves, grape skins, seeds and stalks) and the dimensions of the growing bed, that have to be calculated accurately. Finally it is a system that can offer an efficient solution with relatively limited realization costs and a low energy consumption. It is also a flexible depuration technology under the aspects of climate, water regimen, characteristics and quantities of the introduced waste. The Project is aimed at testing a phytodepuration system of the waters, in order to verify the experiences of the relevant Australian and New Zealand oenological chains. The SEVEN group is looking for an area where to create an experimental system. The system will have the aim of reducing impairment peaks of the waters that occurring in the vintage period. A part from the reduction of environmental impact in the vintage period, it is foreseen to reach the aim of a reduction of the cost of the water depuration. yields also in difficult musts. The obtainable cleanness degree can reach very low values of turbidity. The project in question consists in the testing of a discontinuous flotation system aimed at reducing the concentration of the suspended solids in waste waters, particularly during the vintage. In fact, the vintage is the time when the presence of the suspended solids in waste waters of wine cellars is the highest and therefore it is the moment in which the reduction of the polluting load is the most important. The first test has been done during the 2010 vintage; the testing will go on during the 2011 vintage. CREATION OF AN EXPERIMENTAL Project SEVEN/AMB/2 PHYTODEPURATION SYSTEM The depuration of waste waters of wine cellars is definitely a Project SEVEN/AMB/3 complex problem and its solution is usually very expensive. One of the most relevant aspects in relation to the depuration of waste waters of a wine cellar derives from the fact that the crushing and winemaking activities is concentrated in a period of time that lasts only a few months. The activities connected to the vintage determine in general a great variability of the water discharge, in terms of both quantity and organic load. The concentration of the latter in the peak periods can also be ten times more than a civil discharge. This problem has lead to propose in time many technological solutions. One of the methods that is being analysed recently in detail at an international level is phytodepuration. Phytodepuration can represent an interesting treatment method because, unlike the other depuration methods, is not influenced much by flow or load variations. The plants and microorganisms responsible of the reduction of polluting substanSEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 21 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 22 SEVEN DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLE ENERGY Project SEVEN/AMB/5 From its creation ten years ago, the Consortium OICCE R.E.C.S.), disciplined in Italy by the Civil Code. Project SEVEN/AMB/4 Energia has engaged itself in the promotion of the use of Through their use the buyer finances electricity produced renewable energy. from renewable fonts, showing its engagement in favour of the How to reduce the electricity costs of wine cellars? How to environment. In fact, it accepts, in the purchase of energy, a suruse best the contractual opportunities and the technical methocharge linked to the fact that it is produced from renewable fonts. dologies? How does the new electricity purchasing contract It also has the possibility to chose the derivation of the energy, work? To answer these and other questions, OICCE will organifrom solar and/or biomasses or other renewable, and the prose in the next year a study moment concerning energy manageduction technologies. ment and energy saving in wine cellars, as has been done in the This possibilità is a great opportunity for traders, wholesalers past. In the meeting the new electricity purchasing contract and end users that what to distinguish themselves for the attensigned by OICCE Energia will be illustrated, presenting the contion given to environmental and social themes. crete opportunities in favour of electricity consumers. The most important aspects for the signing of a supplying contract and the evaluations that have to be done before signing it will also be presented: consumption, the contractual safety threshold, the costs linked to balancing and dispatching, the roles of the consortiums and the purchase groups in relation to the new assets of the energetic market. The photovoltaic is also a technology that has the advantage of avoiding for co-ops maintenance expenses, in a moment in which the investments in construction are definitely not a priority. The development of renewable energy, furthermore, is also interesting from a marketing point of view. Enteroprises and Institutions, for example, include in their communication strategy their involvement in the production of renewable energies, for example through the displays that show the production of electricity in real time. For the installation of a company photovoltaic system in a wine cellar three conditions are necessary: 1) the wine cellar has to follow its normal oenological planning and does not have to use these systems to cover financial deficits; 2) it has to own at least 2000 square meters of roof, slightly pending and various other technical criteria necessary for the investment to be advantageous; 3) it has to be available to communicate its engagement and promote the operation from marketing point of view. The project of development of renewable energy is conducted by different participants to the network SEVEN. In some cases, it consisted of the implementation of photovoltaic plants aimed at reducing the impact of the activities in terms of energetic consumption. The involved bodies have also created, through the Consortium OICCE Energia, a purchasing group for renewable energies. Thanks to experience of our Consortium for the purchase of electricity and gas, in the collective purchasing contract for 2011 extremely favourable rates for the electricity supply produced from renewable sources certified through the R.E.C.S. (Renewable Energy Certificate System) system or equivalent systems, aimed at incrementing the use of energy derived from non-polluting fonts. The R.E.C.S. system is an international programme aimed at the promotion, recognition and financial support of the environmental value of electricity produced from renewable energetic fonts through the voluntary sale of certifications (the so-called 22 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 23 SEVEN CREATION AND PROMOTION based on factors such as expected energy balance, the investment costs, energy and economic benefits. OF AN ENERGETIC CHECK The main advantages of conducting an energy check consist in identifying the margins of reduction of the company’s energetic impact, in the measurement of results, in reducing energy costs. The project was focused on the elaboration of a check of Project SEVEN/AMB/5 Monitoring the impact of energy consumption is also a good the energy consumption within a company and in the carrying practice of energetic sustainability out of the same check. The first testing of the method, that has shown its validity and preciseness, has been conducted in 2010 and it has shown the margins of potential reduction of energy consumption. The methodological scheme has been developed by the Engineer Paolo Cavallini within the activities of the Consortium OICCE Energia, that is involved in the purchase of electricity and OPTIMISATION OF THE methane. WATER CYCLE The energetic analysis for the enterprises part of the Consortium includes the following steps and documents: 1) Gathering evidence and data relevant to the definition of The water we use in wine cellars within the systems, for Project SEVEN/AMB/6 thermophysical characteristics of buildings and facilities, as adjuvants, hygiene and cleaning is not only a gift of the enviwell as to quantify the real energy flows. This phase is impleronment. In order to use the water available in nature, in fact, it mented through direct surveys and through the collection of is necessary to establish and maintain a complex system that data and information provided by the enterprise. Thermal includes collection, treatment, employment, water purification, graphic methods are also used to detect and quantify the dissiand finally its return to the natural environment. pation of heat. 2) Calculation of the theoretical energy demand for winter and summer climatization following the method provided by DM 59/09 and by L.R. 13/07 (UNI TS 11300/2008). 3) Calculation of the theoretical energy requirements for production processes. 4) Preliminary analysis based on the comparison between real data and theoretical data. 5) Preliminary identification of any weaknesses and possible areas for further study, with preliminary identification of some possible interventions and evaluation of technical and economic feasibility of the interventions themselves. The final report is intended to provide a comprehensive overview of energy flows and related costs, and any deficiencies from the point of view of energy efficiency. It includes a preliminary assessment of feasibility of corrective actions, The objective of the project Optimization of the water cycle is to give members of the oenological network a better understanding concerning the water cycle, in order to encourage a more efficient use of this vital resource. Within the project, a seminar was organized in 2010 about water management in wine cellars. Regulatory changes, innovations concerning the technical aspects of the use of drinking water in the food industry and the methods to avoid sanitary risks were illustrated, together with the saving prospects and the issues related to waste water in wine cellars. A work table is also being institutionalized among the members of the productive chain concerning the use of drinking water, with the provision of regular coordination meetings. of The main advantages related to the project are linked to the rationalization of the water cycle, the possibility of agreeing on (given the use optimization) a reduction of the purchasing bills, the protection of drinking water for the benefit of the community. SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 23 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 24 SEVEN Project SEVEN/AMB/1 COD REDUCTION IN WASTE WATERS WITH USE OF OZONE Ozone is the triatomic molecule of oxygen, heavier than air (about it does not cause secondary pollution; in fact once the reaction Project SEVEN/AMB/7 1.5 times) and characterized by a strong oxidizing power. The range has occurred ozone degrades to molecular oxygen, leaving no harmof allowed applications in the sanitization field by ozone is large, since ful residues; ozone dissolves easily in water and is therefore able to produce a it improves the general characteristics of the water and it increastream of ozone-rich water that has a strong disinfectant and sanitises the biodegradability of waste water; zing power, also effective only with the passage on surfaces, floors, it does not provide additional salinity to the water that has to be machinery, containers and bottles, closed circuits, outlets and drains, treated; or within production lines. the oxygen that is not converted to ozone can be recovered and The degradation of ozone, once dissolved in water, produces biaused in other phases of the depuration treatment; tomic oxygen and an atom of radical oxygen extremely reactive, able after the ozone treatment, the waste water is already disinfected, to destroy resistant organic and unlikely biodegradable molecules. thus avoiding the use of chlorine compounds and the formation of Ozone is therefore mainly used in the following treatments of waste chlorinated organic toxic sub-products; water, and precisely in the following processes: the strong disinfection and oxygenation prevents corrosion and Chemical pre-treatment for the reduction of COD (chemical oxyfermentation with consequent emission of odor, even in case of longen demand) or for increasing the biodegradability of some special ger stays; liquids (eg leachate); it has great dosing flexibility and implementation ease, that miniremoval of colour, of surfactants and residual COD; mize the costs of management and operational control. disinfection of drinking water and wastewater; removal of phenols, cyanides, hydrocarbons, organic substanThe experimentation will be conducted on wine cellars’ waste ces capable of free radical attacks, reducing inorganic substances; water, both during the vintage and not. The project also aims to evaindustrial or agricultural reuse of treated water. luate the influence of the system on the secondary substances in Because of its instability, ozone can not be stored. It is therefore waste water that can have an impact on the consortium’s depurators. produced before its use via electromechanical equipment known as ozone generators. Ozone is produced investing a stream of pure oxyThe main benefits derived from the carrying out of the project congen or air with a distributed electrical choc. sist in the reduction of the impact on the ecosystem and on the living The project we are dealing with is aimed at evaluating the cost / organisms in the water; furthermore the use of the system can lead to benefit ratio in economic and environmental terms of an ozonization a reduction of water pricing system for the COD reduction in wastewater. The advantages achieved with the use of ozone can be summarized as follows: The benefits produced by the proper functioning of the system are it has a strong oxidant power; of course a real interest for companies to join the network. In addition, it does not produce sludge or concentrates; the sharing of results, through the establishment of a working group it degrades contaminants, without transferring pollution to other among the parties involved, will be able to strengthen mutual ties. phases; 24 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 25 Project sheet PROMOTION OF RECYCLING Project SEVEN/AMB/1 Environment Field SEVEN/AMB/1 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT: Beginning starting from May 2009 HEAD PARTNERS: Municipality of Canelli DESCRIPTION Initiative carried out in collaboration with the Municipality of Canelli. During the Safety and Environment week sensitization initiatives on recycling have been organised for citizens, but carried out in the work places. A reusable cloth bag has also been done, to use for purchases. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: Sensitization concerning recycling Financial advantages: Reduction of the sum of the waste fees Social advantages: Involvement of the community in relation to a collective problem ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: Connected to the diffusion of the bags and of the emulation of the enacted best practices Depth: The creation of a visual identity of the initiative reinforces the cohesion of the network Risk reduction: --GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☐ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☒ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☐ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☐ Accountability ☐ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☒ Respect for stakeholder interests ☐ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 25 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 26 Project sheet Project SEVEN/AMB/3 REDUCTION OF THE CONCENTRATIONS Project SEVEN/AMB/2 OF SUSPENDED SOLIDS IN THE WASTE WATERS WITH A DISCONTINUOUS FLOTATION SYSTEM Environment Field SEVEN/AMB/2 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT: Conducted in the vintages 2009 and 2010. Ended. HEAD PARTNERS: Cantina Sociale di Canelli , Pernod Ricard Italia, AEB DESCRIPTION The project consisted in the ideation and the testing of a discontinuous ﬂotation system aimed at reducing the concentration of the suspended solids in waste waters. The test was conducted during 2009 by Pernod Ricard Italia and Cantina Sociale di Canelli in collaboration with AEB. The system determined a 15-20% reduction of the suspended solids’ concentration. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: 15-20% reduction of the suspended solids Financial advantages: --Social advantages: --ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: --Depth: --Risk reduction: Reduction of the risk of overcoming the laws concerning suspended solids GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☒ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☒ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☒ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☐ Accountability ☐ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☒ Respect for stakeholder interests ☒ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights 26 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 27 Project sheet Project SEVEN/AMB/3 OPTIMISATION OF THE WATER CYCLE Environment Field SEVEN/AMB/3 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT: Beginning of the workgroup starting from spring 2009 HEAD PARTNERS: Pernod Ricard Italia , Acque Potabili S.p.A., Municipality of Canelli, Cantina sociale di Canelli, Cantine Coppo DESCRIPTION The Project is aimed at optimizing the consumption of drinking water within the productive chain. The tool that is being formalised is a work table among the bodies involved in the chain concerning the consumption of drinking water, with the prevision of periodical coordination meetings. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: Optimization of the water cycle Financial advantages: Possibility of agreeing on a reduction of the water bills in relation to the use optimisation Social advantages: Safeguard of drinking water ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: The formalisation of the work table is the premise to enlarge the network to other enterprises of the territory Depth: The shared representation of the enterprises favoured by the work table reinforces the cohesion of the network Risk reduction: Reduction of the environmental and economic risks GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☒ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☒ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☐ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☒ Accountability ☒ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☒ Respect for stakeholder interests ☒ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 27 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 28 Project sheet CREATION OF AN EXPERIMENTAL Project SEVEN/AMB/4 Project SEVEN/AMB/5 PHYTODEPURATION SYSTEM Environment Field SEVEN/AMB/4 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT: creation of the interest group starting from spring 2009 HEAD PARTNERS: Municipality of Canelli, OICCE, CRA-Asti, Department of Agriculture Piemonte Region DESCRIPTION The Project is aimed at testing a phytodepuration system of the waters, in order to verify the experiences of the relevant Australian and New Zealand oenological chains. The Municipality of Canelli will sign an agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture for the concession of an area for the creation of the experimental system. The system will have the aim of reducing the impairment peaks of the waters that occur in the vintage period, as a support of the depurator of Canelli. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: Increase of the quality of waters in the vintage period Financial advantages: Reduction of the cost of the water depuration Social advantages: Increase of the quality of water ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: --Depth: Reinforcement of the ties with the Municipality of Canelli and the stakeholders of the network Risk reduction: Reduction of the risks tied to the quality of water GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☐ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☒ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☒ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☐ Accountability ☐ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☒ Respect for stakeholder interests ☒ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights 28 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 29 Project sheet DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLE Project SEVEN/AMB/5 ENERGY Environment Field SEVEN/AMB/5 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT: beginning with the Consortium OICCE Energia starting from 1999 HEAD PARTNERS: Municipality of Canelli, Cantina Sociale di Canelli, Robino & Galandrino DESCRIPTION The Project, carried out by the Municipality of Canelli, Cantina Sociale di Canelli and Robino & Galandrino, consisted of the implementation of photovoltaic plants aimed at reducing the impact of the activities in terms of energetic consumption. The involved bodies have also created, through the Consortium OICCE Energia, a purchasing group for renewable energies. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: Reduction of the environmental impact concernine energy consumption Financial advantages: Reduction of the costs for the purchase of energy and of the sums of consumption Social advantages: --ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: The nature of the initiative permits to attract new members to the network Depth: --Risk reduction: Reduction of the energy costs GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☐ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☒ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☐ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☒ Accountability ☒ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☐ Respect for stakeholder interests ☐ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011 29 SEVEN EN da OT45 2010 DEF pp1-64 QXP_OT35 2008 2 pp1-64 VSS def 04/11/11 19:30 Pagina 30 Project sheet Project SEVEN/AMB/6 Project SEVEN/AMB/7 CREATION AND PROMOTION OF AN ENERGETIC CHECK Environment Field SEVEN/AMB/6 BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT:carried out in the period 2009-2011. Finished. HEAD PARTNERS: Consortium OICCE energia, OICCE, Pernod Ricard Italia DESCRIPTION The project was focused on the elaboration of a check of the energy consumption within a company and in the carrying out of the same check. The testing of the method, that has shown its validity and preciseness, was conducted in relation to Pernod Ricard Italia and has shown the margins of reduction of energy consumption. SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS Environmental advantages: Individuation of the margins of the energy impact reduction of the company and measurement of the results Financial advantages: Reduction of the costs of energy Social advantages: It is a good energy sustainability practice ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL BENEFITS FOR THE NETWORK Amplitude: The partners of the network have the possibility of receiving a reduction of the cost of the check Depth: The development and the diffusion of the check reinfoces the relation with the electricity suppliers Risk reduction: --GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ☐ 1. Promotion and respect of human rights ☐ 2. Non complicity in human rights abuses ☐ 3. Promotion of the freedom of association ☐ 4. Elimination of forced labour ☐ 5. Effective abolition of child labour ☐ 6. Elimination of discriminations ☒ 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges ☒ 8. Promotion of environmental responsibility ☐ 9. Development of environmentally friendly technologie ☐ 10.Contrast against corruption ISO 26000 PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ☐ Accountability ☐ Transparency ☐ Ethical behaviour ☒ Respect for stakeholder interests ☐ Respect for the rule of law ☐ Respect for international norms of behaviour ☐ Respect for human rights 30 SEVEN COLLECTIVE COP 2011
