Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2011 Overview of the 2011 Sustainability Report Pulmuone released its first sustainability report in 2006. In 2011, it is proud to publish its sixth sustainability report. The 2011 Pulmuone sustainability report represents a comprehensive group-level report capturing the performances of all of its subsidiaries. Since 2008, Pulmuone has taken a holistic approach by consolidating all of its efforts to do business sustainably and the results as a LOHAS (Lifestyle of Health and Sustainability) company caring for both human and nature. Reporting Principles The sustainability report is prepared in compliance with the G3.1 guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline. Reporting Scope Pulmuone Holdings, (Sub)-subsidiaries (Pulmuone Foods, Exofresh Logistics, Foodmerce, ECMD, Pulmuone Health and Living, and Pulmuone Waters), Affiliates (ORGA Whole Foods and NHO). Reporting Period January 1 – December 31, 2011. The data from recent three years from 2009 to 2011 are presented for time series analysis (5 year data for some environmental performance). Reporting Frequency Annually Report Assurance The report is reviewed by the Pulmuone management and verified by an independent 3rd party, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies(IPS). For further information about the sustainability report Please, visit www.pulmuone.co.kr Or contact the Holdings Strategy Office, Pulmuone Holdings at fax 82-2-6499-0135 / tel. 82-2-2040-4470 Address 724 Suseo-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul What Has Changed from the 2010 Report Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA): at the subsidiary level The report adopts the Disclosure on Management Approach (MDA) at the subsidiary level to present a more structured view of Pulmuone’s sustainable management performance. Interview with sustainable management experts As part of efforts to seek more insightful stakeholders’ opinions, experts from various areas of sustainable management have been interviewed. * In this report, Pulmuone refers to Pulmuone Holdings, its subsidiaries collectively. Design & Illustration by Cidis Associates 2010 Images and illustration in this report are copyrighted by Pulmuone and Cidis Associates respectively, SR where the photographs and pictures are protected by Pulmuone. Pulmuone Sustainability Report may Refer previous report not be copied or reproduced in any form prior to authorities ’ approval. Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2011 Intro 02 Overview of 2011 Report 04 CEO Message 06 Understanding Pulmuone Appendix 62 Third Party’s Assurance Report Budding trees of Share love through sustainable management ‘social contribution’ 09 Sustainable management 38 Social milestones Send up the rainbow of Grow green with TISO ‘green management’ 28 TISO management 53 Environmental milestones Wind of innovation 32 Economic milestones CEO Message To become a global LOHAS Company Dear valued stakeholders, 2011 was a tumultuous year; the fiscal meltdown in the US and Europe jolted the Pulmuone is at the forefront global economy, with growing uncertainty in the Korean economy and security of green management. Its CEO Message environments. objective in green management is to make and distribute ‘foods that Amid rapidly changing economic environments, Pulmuone has strived to achieve can benefit both humans and nature’. its new vision ‘Global DP 5’. These efforts paid off with impressive financial With this objective, Pulmuone works hard to results. Pulmuone reported 1.4 trillion won in sales turnover, creating a foothold maximize the use of ingredients that have minimal environmental impact, while to further grow into a strong global player. Financial performance is important increasing the use of environmentally friendly packaging materials. Pulmuone for Pulmuone to fulfill its mission, ‘a LOHAS company caring for both humans measures meticulously green house gas emissions across all its worksites and and nature’. But equally important is to practice sustainable management reduces greenhouse emissions and water use across all manufacturing and centered on ethical management, environmental management and socially logistics processes. Pulmuone Organic Tofu was certified as a low-carbon product 4 responsible management. and Eumseong Logistics Center was certified as an environmentally friendly logistics center. Pulmuone is committed to practicing its business philosophy, TISO management, across all its business activities and do business fairly and transparently by Pulmuone is actively driving CSR activities, cementing its foundation for building the corporate culture squarely on its core values, i.e. TISO(Trust, sustainable management. In 2011, it launched “Good Food Campaign” as part Integrity, Solidarity, and Openness). Pulmuone is committed to internalizing and of its strategic CSR efforts. It offered 245 ‘Checking Authentic Wholesome practicing TISO management and its core values, TISO, for all of its members. In Food’ education programs to elementary schools nationwide. In 2012, it will 2012, Pulmuone will focus on fostering win-win relationships aimed to promote take one step further to further expand Good Food Campaign. It will create a mutual growth and driving strategic CSR initiatives to better practice TISO, social enterprise which can take care of the campaign, to change the perception while engaging its members to the greatest possible level to promote voluntary of authentic wholesome foods from safe and reliable food to nutritionally participation. balanced food. Furthermore, Pulmuone has created 40 ‘LOHAS Designer’ teams, a volunteering organization at the group level engaging in various volunteering Pulmuone has been named as one of the most respected companies in Korea for activities. 6 consecutive years. And it ranked No.1(comprehensive food business) in Korea Sustainability Index(KSI). Pulmuone also ranked 6th after other leading players Pulmuone strongly believes in win-win collaborative relationship with partner e.g. Samsung, in the good corporate image rankings compiled by Korea Chamber companies. Since 2007 when Fair Trade Compliance Program(CP) was of Commerce. Pulmuone also became the first food business to join UN introduced to do business more fairly and transparently, Pulmuone Foods, Global Compact in 2007. In 2011, Pulmuone was involved in various activities Foodmerce and Pulmuone Health & Living have obtained grade A or above. advocating the UN Global Compact's ten principles on human rights, labor, Pulmuone will introduce CP to Pulmuone Waters and ECMD as well, ultimately environment and anti-corruption and the values and spirits upheld by UN. It expanding the program to every corner of the group. also made a presentation titled ‘Green Consumer, Corporate Innovation & Green Consumption’ at 2011 Global CSR Conference in Korea hosted by UN Global CEO Message Pulmuone is also seeking ways to grow together with local communities. Compact, attracting attention from UN and stakeholders around the world. Pulmuone has signed an MOU with ‘Ganghwa Island Woori Village’, a social welfare foundation, to grow and distribute eco-friendly bean sprouts under Dear shareholders, customers, partner companies Pulmuone brand. Pulmuone signed an MOU with Yanggu-gun Yeoncheon, a and stakeholders in communities! major region and source of beans for the country, to use locally grown beans to produce tofu products. These are some examples of new business models The members of Pulmuone are putting all hearts and minds into building the developed by Pulmuone to enable it to work together and grow together with most trusted and beloved Pulmuone brand not only in Korea but also around the local communities. global. Pulmuone looks forward to your strong support and encouragement for 5 Pulmuone in its journey to become an indisputable global LOHAS company. Pulmuone is at the forefront of business efforts to delight customers. Pulmuone is going beyond merely satisfying customers. Pulmuone has expanded the concept Thank you. of customer satisfaction to Customer Centered Management(CCM) activities which are aimed to delight and impress customers. Starting with Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living, Foodmerce and ORGA Whole Foods March 2012 obtained CCM certification in 2007 and ECMD followed suit in 2011, making all Nam, Seung-Woo Pulmuone affiliates certified for CCM. Chairman & CEO of Pulmuone Holdings With sustainable management activities described above, Pulmuone has built a strong image as the most trusted top-notch food company among customers. Understanding Pulmuone Pulmuone Businesses and [Pulmuone History] Growth Brands Food-oriented growth in line with Prepare to become a global player Healthy food-oriented growth sophistication of through business through overseas business expansion distribution diversification sales turnover 1trillion 400billion(’11) ● sales turnover 1trillion 170billion(’09) ● Pulmuone Story sales turnover 700billion(’06) ● sales turnover 550billion(’03) ● Mr.Won, Kyung-Sun, the founder and director of Pulmuone, sales turnover 100billion(’92) ● named his farm as Pulmuone, reflecting his aspiration to nurture talents that the society needs, by using ‘Pulmu’ ’81 ’82 ’84 ’86 ’91 ’95 ’00 ’03 ’04 ’08 ’09 ’11 Pulmuone Understanding Pulmuone 1) Pulmuone (bellows) that are used to turn rusty and useless iron and Health & Greenjuice Transferred Acquired Transferred Acquired Made Organic Living Tofu Pulmuone Pulmuone Food inroads to business Wildwood, to pure MGF, steel scraps into sturdy and useful farming equipments. With food business Waters USA ECMD merce holding a US-based holding a US-based into the Outlet Pulmuone launched established China company company company firm Enzyme the founder’s conviction, Pulmuone started as a business Foods Exofresh market that ran organic food stores in 1981 and has grown into a big business with 2011 annual sales turnover of 1.4 trillion won. Targeting household markets, Pulmuone’s authentic Holding Company-Based Governance Structure wholesome food business has grown with stronger and Pulmuone has the governance structure centered on Pulmuone Holdings, better business capabilities that have come with years of a holding company for operations, as illustrated below experience. And it has built on its success with the household [Pulmuone governance structure] 6 markets to make successful inroads into business markets. 1) Bellows(Pulmu) An equipment used to create a stream of air to heat Pulmuone Holdings Pulmuone IC irons at blacksmith’s workshop Company name Pulmuone Holdings Pulmuone Health ORGA Whole HQ address 80-1 Samho-ri, Daeso-myun, Pulmuone Foods ECMD Foodmerce & Living Foods Eumsung-gun, Choongbuk Worksite address 724 Suseo-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul Pulmuone Beijing Shanghai Pulmuone NHO CEO Nam, Seung Woo food production Exofresh Pulmuone subsidiary 2) Pulmuone Pulmuone (China) (Natural House Sales turnover 1. 4 trillion won group1) Logistics U.S.A Foods Foods Organic) Founded on May 12, 1984 1) Pulmuone food production subsidiary group includes PPEC Chuncheon, PPEC Eumsung Sprouts, PPEC Uiryeong, PPEC Eumsung Noodles, Myungga Foods and SinSeon Natto. No. of employees 4,753 people 2)Pulmuone U.S.A lnc The subsidiary is Pulmuone Foods USA, Inc. Key Businesses The history of Pulmuone has been a journey to become a provider of organic, functional and fresh foods. It also strives to expand and Brands its business presence in the US and make inroads into Chinese market, to emerge as one of global players. It also has various subsidiary brands that help Pulmuone to build a strong corporate image in the minds of consumers. [Pulmuone group business summary] Business area Business entity Business description Brands NFF Pulmuone Foods · Manufacture and distribution of fresh foods, e.g. (Natural tofu, vegetables and refrigerated noodles Fresh Foods) · Cold chain logistics service HFS Foodmerce · As a distributor specialized in food ingredients, (Health it offers a wide range of food ingredients to food Understanding Pulmuone Food Service) service, restaurants and food ingredient markets. ECMD · A specialized food service provider with business areas encompassing contract food service, restaurants and catering service. DTC Pulmuone · Manufacture and door-to-door sales of health functional foods; Manufacture (Direct Health & Living and Cold-Chain delivery/distribution service of functional beverages; To Customer) and mass market sales of health functional foods; and baby food business ORGA Whole · SPAW(Specialty of retailer of Private label Authentic Wholesome Food) 1) 7 Foods (company-run stores, SIS ) 1) SIS Shop In Shop GBM Pulmuone U.S.A · Manufacture and distribution of alternatives to meat / diary products, (Global Business e.g. tofu, soymilk Management) · Manufacture and distribution of fresh foods such as refrigerated / frozen pasta and sauce Pulmuone Foods · Manufacture3) and distribution of refrigerated 2) Pulmuone Foods Beijing Pulmuone Green Foods, (China)2) Shanghai Pulmuone Foods noodles and soymilk products in China 3) Fresh products manufacture to be done locally in the future Pulmuone 4) Pulmuone Health & Living · Manufacture and door-to-door sales of health functional foods in China Pulmuone (China) Health & Living 4) (China) A very personal story of Pulmuone 1 ‘See the Miracle of Christmas’ Heartwarming Christmas tale in Pulmuone. Here in Pulmuone, even the raging wind of winter can be silenced with warmth in heart. At Christmas, Pulmuone’s corporate culture team, C-cubic, threw a small but very special musical concert in partnership with the Make-A-Wish Foundation of Korea for two high school girls, Min-ji and Soo-ye. Although suffering from intractable disease, Min-ji and Soo-ye don’t give up on their dreams, practicing on the piano they received as a gift from the foundation, and releasing their own musical records. Albeit only for one day, the concert gave them such unforgettable and fond memory they can reminisce about for the rest of their lives. And above all, would the experience of having their wildest dream come true give them the courage and strength to overcome the merciless disease, and be a miracle themselves? The fund raised at the concert and proceeds from the special charity auction organized by ORGA Whole Foods were donated to 12-year-old Jae-hoon suffering from lymphoblastic leukemia and five-year-old Yoon-seo who has lost sight from retinoblastoma. Sustainability management Pulmuone is a leader in LOHAS that drives a healthy lifestyle for community and environment sustainability. Realizing LOHAS value which cares for both human and nature is the raison d'être and the ultimate goal of Pulmuone. Budding trees of sustainability Pulmuone’s Sustainability Management Framework Sustainability Management: Sustainability Management Organization Mission and Vision LOHAS company caring for both CEO human and nature Mission Introduction TISO Economic Social Performance Environmental LOHAS(Lifestyles of Health and Sustainability) represents Sustainability management management Performance Performance a lifestyle where you care about both the human health · Management · TISO Office · Management Partner Local · ES Office Customer Employee and the sustainability of society and environment. LOHAS Support Dept. · Management Support Dept. company community represents what Pulmuone is all about and the center of the · Management Assessment · Consolidated · CS center · HR Dept. · Total · PR Dept. Assessment Dept. Accounting company’s long-term vision. In other words, the company · Food · ER Dept. Merchandise Dept. Dept. Pulmuone Culture Div. is commitment to doing business in a way that it cares · Pulmuone Risk · TISO Office Holdings Research Management · Research Institute about both the nature and human beings, i.e. consumers, Committee of Food and Institute employees, wider society and environments. Culture · Brand Management Committee 10 Global DP Pulmuone · MIT · HR Support Team (Defining Pulmuone) 5 Foods · Management Support Det., Logistics Dept. Vision Foodmerce Strategic Planning Team, Management Support Team Pulmuone’s vision is to break the 5 trillion won mark in ECMD Strategic Planning Team, Hygiene & Safety Team terms of sales turnover generated from its domestic and international businesses, by redefining its LOHAS business. It Pulmuone Health & Management Support Dept. Living aims to turn itself into an indisputable No. 1 food company in ORGA the domestic market providing a wide range of products that Whole Management Support Team, HR & General Affairs Team Foods are profoundly trusted by customers and then, into a globally Pulmuone HR&GA, Marketing Team recognized LOHAS company. Waters 2010 Corporate Governance and Board of Directors agendas are decided by consent of more than a majority and other matters are SR delegated to the management committee. 10p Shareholders Pulmuone Holdings is a KOSPI-listed company with major shareholders owning Board of Directors: roles and operation 57.3%, institutional investors and foreign investors owning 3.8% and small At a total of eight board meetings that had taken place from January until shareholders owning 38.9% of its shares. The number of total outstanding December 2011, 15 agendas had been tabled and reviewed by the the board of shares is 3,809,095 and capital stock amounts to 19,045 Mn won. Pulmuone’s directors. The members’ average attendance rate in 2011 was 87%. The board shareholders exercise their voting rights at the general shareholders’ meeting which of directors is supported by five committees; the Audit Committee, the Outside provides a forum to share Pulmuone’s financial performance and future vision and Director Nomination Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Outside for shareholders to express their valuable opinions. Director Evaluation Committee and the Management Committee. Pulmuone’s Sustainability management economic performance and social/environmental performance are reported to and Board of directors: composition reviewed by the board of directors on a quarterly and yearly basis respectively. In Pulmuone’s board of directors is composed of 10 members, five standing directors 2011, it was reviewed at the fifth the board of directors meeting (Dec. 22). and five outside directors. The board of directors has a strong independence with (For the details of key resolutions of board of directors and the roles of committees, outside directors representing 50% of the total directors. Five Full-time directors please visit www.Pulmuone.co.kr) are sitting executives serving on management team including CEO Nam, SeungWoo. Five outside directors are selected based on a wide range of criteria including professional expertise, experiences and gender to ensure they can add value to business decision makings. In addition, ensuring the diverse representation on the 11 board is another element of considerations. They are nominated by the Outside Director Nomination Committee composed of non-standing directors only. Currently 5 professionals from various backgrounds e.g. management expert and professor, are serving as outside directors. Board of directors: authorities Board of Directors is the highest-level decision making body that determines matters relevant to operation of the company, other than the general shareholders’ meeting. Pulmuone board of directors is governed by Korea Commercial Act as a corporation and Capital Market Consolidation Act as a listed company. Important 2010 Risk Management Risks: classification and responses SR Pulmuone takes a three-step approach to risk and takes actions appropriate Risks: definition and categories 10p for each step by classifying risks into three groups: ▲Controllable risks(Step 1), Pulmuone defines ‘risks’ as unpredictable events that can pose threat to the health ▲Potential risks(Step 2) and ▲Brand and media-related risks(Step 3). and safety of customers or employees, and thereby to its brands, image and values. The risks have potential to cause serious damage to the organization and companies. Pulmuone classifies risks into product risk, production risk and other risks. For more details about each risk category, please see the reports from the last year. Sustainability management Risk management committee Pulmuone holds monthly regular Risk Management Committee meetings at group, business entity and business area levels, with an aim to identify, prevent and manage potential risks. In case certain risk materializes, initially business entity and area level Risk Management Committees are responsible for addressing the risk. When the situation deteriorates, the group-level Risk Management Committee is convened. These mechanisms help develop timely and effective solutions to risks and minimize the negative impact on businesses and the society. 12 Category Controllable risks(Step 1) Potential risks(Step 2) Brand and media-related risks(Step 3) Definition Where preventative actions are required in business Product recalls, claims and other frontline issues Where there is a serious damage to the brand operation caused by media reports, etc. Actions Discuss at Food Safety Innovation Meeting and Convene the business entity/area-level ad-hoc Convene the group-level Risk Management business entity/area–level Risk Management Risk Management Committee meetings and take Committee and take actions, 24 hour stand by Committee meetings appropriate actions. Determine the need to convene the group-level Risk Management Committee Communication Regular reporting to the group-level Risk Regular reporting to the group-level Risk Risk management organization has meetings Management Committee Management Committee and create a separate whenever needs arise. Create a separate community community CSR Activities by Pulmuone 2010 Definition of CSR activities First food service provider to earn CCM certification SR In March 2011, Pulmuone officially declared the adoption of CCM(Customer Pulmuone has introduced responsive CSR and strategic CSR frameworks to 12p Centered Management), developed its vision and organization for CCM, and make more structured efforts to drive sustainability management. Responsive created a systematic operation manual. In addition, Pulmuone has improved CSR activities are conducted to respond to important issues to society and the customer service process and VOC(Voice of Customers) system, reducing stakeholders’ needs, while strategic CSR activities are strategic activities customer complaints to the lowest possible level. In Dec. 2011, Pulmuone performed to realize its vision of becoming a LOHAS company that caring for obtained CCM certification from Fair Trade Commission after assessment and both human and nature. review by CCM Certification Review Committee which was hosted by Korea Sustainability management Consumer Protection Board. Responsive CSR Activities Shared the commitment to sustainability management WET: raising awareness about importance of water and best practices at Global CSR Conference Pulmuone launched Project WET(Water Education for Teachers) to raise Pulmuone attended Global CSR Conference 2011 hosted by UN Global Compact awareness about the importance of water and its preservation and has offered Network Korea where it discussed how business can go beyond merely seeking WET program education to 250 students at 10 schools in 2011. WET program is profits and promote business sustainability, hence enhancing competitiveness. a global water education program which has been introduced by 42 countries, Furthermore, Pulmuone shared its strategic and responsive CSR activities in its engaging more than 40,000 people annually. 13 presentation titled Green Consumer, Corporate Innovation & Green Consumption and shared its practices aimed to promote healthy wholesome food to meet the needs of consumers. Won KFTC Chairman Award On April 1, 2011, Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce won a KFTC(Korea Fair Trade Commission) chairman award at a ceremony held in commemoration of the 30th anniversary of Fair Trade system, KFTC and the 10th Fair Trade Day. WET: raising awareness about importance of water This is a testimony to its success in development and operation of its Fair Trade Compliance Program in a short span of time. and ORGA Whole Foods stores. In 2012, it plans to establish an external body, in Strategic CSR Activities the form of social enterprise that will be in charge of the campaign, to drive the campaign more creatively and actively. Traffic lights labeling, leading the efforts to protect child health CSR activities through products Pulmuone became the first one to introduce the ‘ traffic lights labeling’, an Pulmuone is committed to adding more value to dietary lifestyles by offering ‘Safe initiative launched by Ministry of Health and Welfare, to processed food and Products’ that are made and managed at hygienic and safe production facilities snacks for kids in Korea. Traffic lights labeling was launched in March 2011 as part based on strict standards; ‘Fresh Products’ that bring the freshness of quality of efforts to prevent child obesity and protect child health. It is a nutrition labeling food ingredients to the dinner table; ‘Convenient Products’ that are convenient mechanism using traffic lights color coding, i.e. red (high), yellow (medium) and and easy to eat, a perfect choice for busy people on the go; and ‘ Healthy Sustainability management green (low), to indicate the amounts of nutrients that cause child obesity such as Products’ that can offer convenient AND healthy meals for busy days. fat, saturated fat, sugar and sodium. Complete labeling of ingredients, labeling more functional ingredients Pulmuone has expanded the scope of functional ingredient labeling in an effort to improve the product reliability and provide accurate information to customers. The products that were launched in 2011 with their new functional ingredient labeling include Bohaemi, Vegetable Yogurt Drink Ma, Slim-Up Plus Beauty and 14 Greenche Rosenbi Su. Functional ingredients such as isoflavone and calcium are labeled depending on the nature of product. Expand ‘Good Food Campaign’, promoting good dietary culture Pulmuone is driving ‘Good Food Campaign’ to raise awareness among consumers about the importance of ‘ Checking Authentic Wholesome Food ’. In 2011, Pulmuone offered 245 education programs to 83 institutions nationwide, 25 elementary schools in Seoul and 40 Home Plus stores. Furthermore, it offered ‘Checking Authentic Wholesome Food’ education to customers of Foodmerce Safe Products Fresh Products Safe food options with zero additives(artificial sweetener, artificial coloring Healthy food choice for consumers, made with fresh ingredients. and artificial flavor). They are produced from the safely managed process from ‘Kale Kiwi’ It is a juice extracted from various fresh fruits and vegetables production to distribution to ensure no artificial ingredient is added. without adding a drop of water. This vitamin C rich juice is made with 100% fresh and raw vegetables/fruits without adding any artificial additives. It is a perfect and ‘ Olbarun Hotdog(healthy and wholesome hotdog) ’ convenient source of nutritious vegetables and fruits for busy people in these days. Olbarun Hotdog uses sausages 100% made from locally grown chicken and pork, without adding any artificial additives such as artificial coloring. ‘Han Baguni(One basket)’ Vegetables Han Baguni Vegetables come in 5 most Its bread full of finely chopped locally grown carrots, onions, spinaches and popular types of vegetables among Koreans including bracken, dried pumpkins adds more flavor and nutrition. radish greens, chinamul, ballon flower root and potato shoot. Han Baguni is a pack of 100% locally grown vegetables that are already ‘ Hongge Soksal(Red Crab Meat)’ Made with the meat and peeled, cut, cleaned and boiled, perfectly ready for cooking, yet with extracts of naturally grown red king crabs caught from the East Sea, it brings all the freshness, taste and unique fragrance of vegetables. all the unique fresh, soft and chewy taste of crabs. It is clean and safe to eat because no MSG(Monosodium L-glutamate) or artificial preservatives are added and it doesn’t taste too strong or artificial. Sustainability management Convenient Products CSR ACTIVITIES Healthy Products THROUGH PRODUCTS Safe Products Fresh Products Convenient Products Healthy Products Developed to reflect increasingly diverse food consumption patterns, this line Convenient and healthy food choices for busy days. offers a variety of convenient food choices. ‘ Pho Nuah Rice Noodles’ Rice noodles made exactly in the 15 ‘ Mongeul Mongeul Soft Tofu(Silky and same way that Vietnamese traditionally made their noodles, at the stateSoft Tofu)’ To keep its unique rich flavor, it is made of-the art production facilities in Korea. It contains no flour. Only made using soy milk 20% richer than that of regular soft tofu and of rice(80.7%) and starch, it has minimal potential allergic reactions applying high pressure, heating and forming processes. It is and is good for digestion. Its flavor is enriched with South East Asian a convenient yet more tasty and more nutritious food choice traditional natural seasonings such as coriander and star anise. than regular tofu, as it contains Sunmul1) that usually comes out of tofu during coagulation. ‘I’m Real Yogurt’ This is the product where fresh fruits extracts meet the less sour taste 1) Sunmul refers to water that comes out when soft tofu is being pressed. and creamy type Caspian Sea Yogurt2). It offers rich taste and good health benefits as well, enhancing immune system and lowering ‘ Steamed Eggs’ Soft and tasty Japanese-style authentic blood sugar level. steamed eggs. This makes a good food choice for children 2) Caspian Sea Yogurt It was first introduced and commercialized between meals as well as convenient meal or side dish. It is also by Dr. Yamori, a Japanese professor studying longevity and life. safe to eat as it is made with Pulmuone Mokcho eggs. It comes in two types including ginkgos/chestnuts and shrimps/bamboo shoots you can choose from. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Categories and Communication Pulmuone’s stakeholders are split into shareholders, employees, customers, partner companies and local communities. Stakeholders are partners in Pulmuone’s journey to foster sustainability management. Pulmuone seeks input from stakeholders and shares results with them. Sustainability management Shareholders Employees Customers Partner Local Shareholders are those 4,753 internal partners All customers who use companies communities who buy and own who are working together products and services Partner companies are Public organizations Pulmuone's value with to accomplish the company’s offered by Pulmuone companies that are including the stocks mission and vision subsidiaries and affiliates involved in production government, local and service including communities, and Open shareholders’ meeting, The Knowledge Worker CS center, e-fresh buying, production, sales, volunteer groups, etc. Board of Directors’ meeting, Platform, labor-management monitoring, housewives 16 delivery and facilities quarterly Investor Relations, council meetings, monitoring, customer Regular meetings with and sustainability reports communication meetings satisfaction survey Round-table meetings volunteer groups, www.pulmuone.co.kr with CEO, the publication (Company magazine) with partner companies, stainability reports of company magazines, the ‘One Big Bowl full of Nature’, sustainability reports Occupational Safety and Health sustainability reports Committee, the grievance redress mechanism, interoffice memos for communication, the Employee Assistance Program, C-cubic and the sustainability reports For more details, please visit the company website (www.pulmuone.co.kr) Interviews with Sustainability management area Kim, Gi Chan, professor, experts from Business administration, The Catholic University of Korea different Q Pulmuone has strived to become a company that thrives for a long time. What do you think we need to focus and work on to enjoy corporate longevity? sustainability In my opinion, there have been and are positive views about the commitment and approach of the company’s internal stakeholders to corporate longevity. But with the management areas spirit of our times, coupled with higher expectation placed on Pulmuone by small/ Sustainability management medium-sized partner companies and their growing influence, Pulmuone must work harder on this area. As there is a growing perception that the success of a society’ doesn’t entirely depend upon the success of large corporations, Pulmuone must seek mutually beneficial relationship with partner companies to get one step closer to corporate longevity. Pulmuone interviewed experts from different sustainability management areas as part of efforts to Q What roles and responsibilities Pulmuone must fulfill to grow as a business that will seek insightful input on sustainability management thrive for a long time? from stakeholders. The interviews with 3 experts 17 In the past, many companies pursued ‘stand-alone’ strategy. In other words, they cared who are knowledgeable about their areas such as about their interests only. But more recently, they have embraced the business ecosystem sustainability management, employees and local concept which is about all the participants working together to grow the business communities gave Pulmuone a chance to explore the ecosystem. In line with these environmental changes, Commission on Shared Growth directions it should take to bring its sustainability for Large Corporations and SME selected tofu business as a business suitable for SME in management efforts to the next level. Going forward, later 2011, causing severe tension in businesses Pulmuone is involved in. Pulmuone has Pulmuone will engage experts from more diverse been working hard to promote win-win collaboration. And now is the time for Pulmuone areas to listen to their caring and insightful advice. to take more responsibility and further promote win-win collaboration to grow as a company that thrives for long years. Pulmuone must bring about another change to enjoy business longevity. I look forward to see Pulmuone focus on healthy food product development & innovation and distribution of authentic wholesome food as one of industry leaders that grows and thrives for long years to come. Employees area Local community area Kang, Kyoung Won, team head, Huh, Hye Yeon, team leader, HR dept, Pulmuone Holdings Green Food Research Institute, Green Consumer Network in Korea Q Please tell us about what kinds of programs and schemes Pulmuone runs to Q Pulmuone is engaging in CSR activities e.g. authentic wholesome food support childcare and female employee. training. How do you view of Pulmuone’s CSR activities? Pulmuone is in compliance with regulatory requirements on childcare and female In my opinion, Pulmuone’s Authentic Wholesome Food education is a good CSR employees’ health. In compliance with the requirements, Pulmuone ensures to program as it educates consumers to understand the food labeling accurately. guarantee its employees their maternity leave and give all eligible applicants And this is a CSR activity that a food business must carry out. Going forward, Sustainability management childcare leaves and have flexible working arrangements in place to give working Pulmuone needs to continue with these efforts by expanding the scope of moms more time to look after their children. In addition, the company has long education program participants from children to a broader population. In offered a resting lounge for female employees with/ without kids. It also offers addition, I hope that Pulmuone will maintain the partnership with Green childcare subsidy to ease the employees’ economic burden caused by childrearing. Consumer Network in Korea along with the education program, which will allow longer-lasting education benefits and higher quality activities. Q How do Pulmuone employees feel about the company programs on childcare and women’s health? Any plan to further develop related programs? Q What do you think Pulmuone should do to further promote and raise From the employees’ perspective, the company’s programs and schemes on awareness of its CSR activities? 18 childcare and women’s health still leave something to be desired. But Pulmuone Pulmuone is engaging in a range of CSR activities and some of them are annual will continue to engage employees in communication to improve them further, programs. But stakeholders’ awareness of these activities conducted by Pulmuone going forward. As part of efforts to do this, Pulmuone plans to get family-friendly is rather low. So Pulmuone needs to expand the scope of its authentic wholesome company certification, the initiative by Ministry of Gender Equality and Family, in food education and other similar programs, which are Pulmuone’s flagship CSR 2012. For this, Pulmuone is currently working to review its programs on childcare activities, to include a broader range of stakeholders and strengthen the activities and women’s health to improve existing ones or introduce new ones if necessary. further, so that stakeholders are fully aware and understand that Pulmuone is actively engaging in these CSR activities. For this, Pulmuone needs to plan activities that can engage stakeholders, e.g. essay writing and cooking contest on authentic wholesome food, along with the ongoing authentic wholesome food education program. These efforts can raise stakeholders’ awareness of Pulmuone’s CSR activities and help the company be remembered as a sustainable business by customers and local communities. Key Sustainability Management Issues 2011 Key Sustainability Management Issues Materiality assessment results for Pulmuone As a result of the materiality assessment, material issues have been identified Pulmuone has conducted regular materiality assessments to identify and report and classified into different categories based on themes. This exercise has helped faithfully the issues that stakeholders care about. Based on the materiality Pulmuone identify issues that it needs to focus on to run its business sustainably. assessment results, Pulmuone has prioritized and selected the issues that 57 issues identified are classified into Very High, High, Medium & Emerging stakeholders care about the most. The issues are captured in the sustainability categories based on the level of materiality. report and tracked regularly, to reflect them in business operation. Sustainability management Materiality assessment methodology Materiality assessment consists of four step tests i.e. 2011 Pulmuone company policy assessment, stakeholders survey, peers benchmarking, and media search results, based on Materiality Test ModelTM. Very High [Materiality assessment methodology and details] (20 items) Assessment methodology Details TEST 1. Company policy 2011 company policies and business strategies 19 High(26 items) assessment of affiliates TEST 2. Stakeholders survey Dec. 2011, On/offline stakeholder survey Customers(128) Medium & Emerging(11 items) Employees(600) Partner companies(110) Local communities(59) TEST 3. Peers benchmarking Unilever Danone Nestle Campbell TEST 4. Media search Media reports from January 1, until Dec. 31 2011 Category Very High(20 items) High(26 items) Medium & Emerging(11 items) General & Sustainable CEO leadership Business philosophies and vision Participation in global initiatives management Sustainability management performance tracking Seeking input from stakeholders Sustainability management strategy Corporate governance Practicing CSR through products TISO management Ethical management Regulatory compliance/Anti-corruption Fair trade Transparent management Economy _ Financial performance Value creation and allocation Business strategy Risk management framework Brand value Non-financial risk management Market competition Innovation/Creativity Process innovation Technology development Increase investment Sustainability management New product development Distribution innovation New market development Customers Customer communication Customer health and nutrition _ Customer satisfaction Product safety and quality Information-sharing Employees People development and learning Labor-management communication Mutually beneficial labor-management relations Differentiated corporate culture Respecting human rights Staff recruitment Fair people management and compensation 20 Staff satisfaction Welfare and benefits Workplace safety Partner companies Win-win cooperation with partner companies Fair and transparent selection process _ Business relationship with sustainable companies Communication with partner companies Local communities CSR activities Communication with local communities Support for cultural development CSR strategy Cooperation with governments Local community development Employee participation Environment Efforts to reduce environmental impact Climate change response Biodiversity Environment protection Green management strategy Investment in environments DMA by Affiliate Pulmuon Realizing ‘Nutrition Balance’ Foods Refrigerated product line Frozen product line Product line for room Logistics system Pulmuone Food’s flagship product Pulmuone Foods’ basic product line temperature storage · Eumseong Logistics Center line that is produced and distributed ranging from conventional products Pulmuone’s new growth engine is equipped with the latest in strict compliance with its such as dumplings and ice to new developed with quality ingredients, refrigeration/frozen facilities principles; freshness, convenience, products that are easy to keep and zero additives and nutritional and the state-of-the art logistics safety and zero additives, reshaping cook e.g. frozen snacks, balance. system the rules in the food frozen noodles, and · Offers the best quality logistics market. frozen meals. service to Pulmuone and customers Key Performance Index 2011 Plans 2011 Milestones 2012 Plans Sustainability management Economic · Development of large product lines · Sales growth of new products, e.g. · Stricter new product · Ramping up new product beverages, other than existing flagship management standards development efforts products such as tofu and vegetables · New business and new · New markets development · Brand equity index rose 6% channel development Company summary · Survey on Pulmuone brand equity index points YoY to 78.9% · Stronger brand and communication Pulmuone Foods is a leading food company Social · Stronger food safety management · Total 245 ‘Checking Authentic Wholesome · Establishing an Authentic Wholesome Food committed to making authentic, wholesome · 100 factory tours Food’ education programs offered social enterprise and safe-to-eat food products. · 85 factory tours involving 2,388 visitors · Expanding Good Food campaign and education programs CEO’s commitment · Adoption of the new complete labeling of to sustainability management ingredients e.g. packaging and the web site 21 Pulmuone Foods will continue to expand Environmental · Expanding the greenhouse gas inventory · Establishing the greenhouse gas inventory · Broader range of low-carbon products it s scope of busines s from exis ting system establishment at all worksites · Broader use of eco-friendly packaging refrigerated products to frozen products · More products with carbon footprint · Low-carbon product certification materials and those storable at room temperature figures calculated. · Pilot test of eco-friendly packaging materials · Green certification for worksites and expand the range of products and · Observance of the Environment & Safety Day sales channels targeting young customers to develop its growth engines. From the social responsibility perspective, Pulmuone Exemplary practices Adopted ‘Nutrition Balance’ concept Foods will establish a social enterprise in Pulmuone Foods introduced a broader concept called ‘ Nutrition obesity, diabetes, various adult diseases and other diseases caused an effort to lead Good Food Campaign Balance’ to raise awareness about the importance of authentic by nutritionally unbalanced diet. Pulmuone Foods have captured and launch low-sodium and low-calories wholesome food and promote continued growth of the campaign. this corporate philosophy and convictions in its products. Its media products, among others, to promote ‘ Nutrition Balance’ goes beyond chemical or physical food safety, advertisement that highlights the importance of ‘Nutrition Balance’ has nutritionally balanced diet, contributing to e.g. no additives and environmentally friendly food, to include been well received by the public. healthier diet of Koreans. healthy dietary lifestyles and prevention of diseases caused by DMA by Affiliate Pulmuone Total Healthcare Food & Service Health&Living Health functional foods business Green juice busines Skincare business Baby meal business · ‘Greenche’ brand is distributed · Products range from green juice Natural healthy cosmetics brand · Production and distribution of by around 4,000 HA1) through and herb products to vegetable ‘Issilin’, kids skincare brand ‘Kidswell’, refrigerated baby meal the network of 170 franchisees yogurt drinks(No. 1 in the domestic eco-friendly and body care brand · Home delivery service mainly in nationwide market with 50% M/S) ‘Daily’ Seoul and 5 metropolitan cities · Fullvita brand is distributed through · Door-to-door delivery to a range of channels including companies and homes specialty shops, online shopping through the malls and large distributors. nationwide 250 franchisee network 1)HA Health Advisor Company summary Pulmuone Health & Living is a producer Key Performance Index and distributor of health functional foods Sustainability management 2011 Plans 2011 Milestones 2012 Plans and green juice. In addition, the company Economic · Sales channel diversification with · Cost saving through improving its production process and · New growth engine development distributes ‘ Fullvita’ brand and engages a broader range of categories new product development/product renewal through new channels and new in baby meal business with ‘ Woori Ai(My · Product development and quality · Establishment and use of customer information database products kids)’ brand. enhancement (Happy call) · Boosting sales turnover & revenue through product improvement CEO’s commitment Social · Strategic CSR activities · Nationwide tour awareness campaign for · Program-based CSR activities to sustainability management development and planning ‘Right Understanding of Climacteric Period’ In 2011, the company consolidated its Environmental · Efficient use of fuels and energy · Environmental pollution minimization using GAP-certified ginseng · Safe work environment customer support functions to better · Eco-friendly product development · Compliance with the waste discharge limit of 10 ppm and water · Efficient energy use serve customers and created organizations and eco-friendly process adoption quality improvement for JaDamYeon(a pond that holds the nature) · Better water usage and waste 22 and systems dedicated to strengthen · Boiler standby losses reduction(fuel(LPG) saving: KRW 6 mil(Annual)) water management its capabilities for Customer Centered · Introduction of eco-friendly Management(CCM), putting in place products and service education programs and systems to embed the best practices on personal i nfo r m a t i o n p r ote c t i o n, Fa ir Tra d e Compliance Program and cus tomer Exemplary practices Earned international certification for education service management system complaints management. Furthermore, Pulmuone Health & Living became the first in Korea to earn ISO management and monitoring, and qualifications assessment of training Pulmuone Health & Living works together 29990, the international certification for the education service team members and internal instructors. with civic groups to drive its metabolic management system developed by International Standardization syndrome prevention campaign and Organization(ISO), for its training programs offered to franchisees and sales staff of its distributional channels, i.e. door-to-door sales and 1) ISO 29990 Certification is granted to providers or operators of ‘education healthy baby meal awareness campaign service ’ where common guidelines and models in compliance with to return its intellectual properties, i.e. its daily delivery system. Pulmuone Health & Living hopes that ISO 29990 international standards are applied on the design, development, provision knowhow and knowledge on health and will help it offer more systematic and performance-based training, i.e. and management of education service for human resource development life, to the society. improved assessment of training service effectiveness, preventative risk purpose or learners in non-formal education service areas. DMA by Affiliate 1) 2015 5000 ECMD Restaurant business Contract meal service business Food delivery business Wedding/banquet business · Food/beverage concession business · Offer food service at around Premium lunchbox order/ · Operate wedding halls and offer at airports, rest areas, department 400 food service establishments production/delivery business in wedding planning service at stores, and shopping malls nationwide liaison with its CK(Central Kitchen) requested sites · Run specialized brand restaurants · Companies, government agencies, business · Offer a range of event planning such as Bruscheta, Arancio and universities, hospitals and services such as party, business Nzle department stores, etc. party and conference 1) 2015 5000 Deliver KRW500 bn in sales turnover by 2015 Sustainability management Key Performance Index Company summary 2011 Plans 2011 Milestones 2012 Plans ECMD engages in a range of food service Economic · Sustainable growth · Large concession business orders won · More new orders business ranging from contract meal · New growth engine development · Development of systematic restaurant · Completing the brand framework development service, concession, restaurant to food brands frameworks · Stronger service capabilities delivery businesses. Social · Expanding nutrition labeling · Expanding nutrition labeling to rest area · Expanding 2011 activities · Young talent development project business · Expanding young talent development CEO’s commitment · Low sodium · Job experience and scholarship project to sustainability management · Healthy menu ideas · Once a month · Increasing support through Happiness ECMD will continue to drive innovation 23 · LOHAS menu development & application, Spreads project initiatives aimed for further development e.g. grain based menu · Expanding the application of LOHAS menus and positive change of its members. Environmental · Less leftover food campaign · Less leftover food at food service sites · Creating LOHAS zones at food service Over the past five years, it has carried · Use of LED lightings · Using the main signs and menu boards sites out various theme-specific innovation · Using eco friendly materials · Using energy efficient cooking equipment initiatives to keep innovating itself for the development and positive change of its organization. Furthermore, it will deliver tangible business results by ‘strengthening Exemplary practices competitiveness’ of its each business and Won the order for Siheung comprehensive rest area development project establish various brand management On March 17, 2011, ECMD signed an agreement with Korea Highway Corporation to develop a Siheung mechanisms and enhance its customer ‘air-suspended’ rest area. It is the country’s first ‘air-suspended’ rest area complete with restaurants which service capabilities to take one step closer is designed to boost efficiency of land use. This is expected to become a landmark of Seoul metropolitan to customers as a specialized food service area. The construction of Siheung ‘air-suspended’ rest place which is located at Siheung city on Seoul ring provider. highways that runs around Seoul city is scheduled to be completed by 2014. DMA by Affiliate 1) Sustainable Global FM & SSP Foodmerce Food service business Restaurant business Consolidated sourcing Dust Control Business H&S Research Institute Supplies food ingredients As a total food service Reduce unnecessary steps Cleaning equipments/ Develop and offer the entire to schools, kindergartens, provider for restaurants, in distribution and build supplies rental business to range of hygiene solutions hospitals, care centers, it supplies the entire various processes such enable customers to clean across the supply chain from and nurseries/childcare range of hygienic and safe as joint buying, buying with convenience, even ingredients to consumers, centers, etc and develops food materials to meet in advance, consolidated invisible fine dusts covering food, health and and distributes food service restaurants’ needs sourcing, operation environment/hygiene brands ‘Barunsun’ and of processing centers/ ‘ Woori Ai(My Kids)’ distribution centers and global sourcing, enhancing 1) FM & SSP Food Marketer & Service Solution Provider: buying competitiveness Distributor of food ingredients & materials and service solutions provider Company summary Foodmerce is a specialized distributor Key Performance Index of food ingredients and the first in the Sustainability management 2011 Plans 2011 Milestones 2012 Plans food ingredient distribution industry Economic · Improved profitability through · Cost reduction through strategic sourcing · Enhanced price competitiveness through to earn official Customer Complaints cost reduction · Sourcing agricultural products from Mangri efficient sourcing(Global sourcing, ect.) Management certification and AA grade area adjacent to Yangji center for its Fair Trade Compliance Program from KFTC(Korea Fair Trade Commission) Social · Fair Trade Compliance Program · Recognized by KFTC chairman award for its CP · Broader range of easy, convenient and · Innovation through solution development · Introduction of a mobile app-based green food ingredients CEO’s commitment · Good food campaign shipping inspection system using QR code · More authentic wholesome food education · Environmentally friendly food ingredients · Authentic wholesome food education for programs to sustainability management distribution kindergartens and schools, etc. · Contribution to local community Foodmerce is more than a simple food · Stronger volunteering efforts in liaison with · More eco-friendly food ingredients (agro) sourcing development ingredient distributor. It dynamically local communities · 38 volunteering activities at child care centers responds to changing market 24 Environmental · Energy saving campaign · Reviewing the possible launch of hazardous · Healthier and safer customers environment s and various customer · Launch the hygiene and safety service dust cleaning business · Launching the hazardous dust cleaning needs. As part of its efforts to protect business · Obtaining certification for air quality, business(JV with Duskin, a Japan-based and improve environments, Foodmerce asbestos, noise and vibration measurement company) will raise it s level of hygiene and · Establishing the pest control system safety service by measuring indoor air quality, noise, vibration and level of asbestos. Furthermore, it will maintain and further improve its exemplary Fair Exemplary practices Adopted QR code to logistics process Trade Compliance Program(CP) and Foodmerce became the first in the industry to introduce in time spent in receiving and inspecting food ingredient Customer Centered Management(CCM) QR code to its logistics flow, instead of the barcode, which shipments. In addition, it allows real-time update so that practices and obtain certification for enables every step of the supply chain from a partner the company can check whether there is any mistake by these improvements, delivering wincompany to receiving associate to enjoy faster logistics flow a partner company e.g. shipping wrong food ingredients win relationship and shared growth with and accurate delivery service with help of QR code and smart or shortage in weight and quantity, helping prevent and customers and partner companies. phones. This has contributed to around 30% reduction respond to potential delivery mishap in advance. DMA by Affiliate Pulmuone Honest water for my family Waters Home and Office Delivery(HOD) Business PET product distribution business · Delivers large-size bottled water products and hot/cool water · Distribute the products to hypermarket, general retailers and restaurants dispenser rental business for homes and businesses · As for general retailers other than large discounters and convenience · Distributes them nationwide through stores, the products are distributed nationwide through the the Pulmuon Water franchisee network distribution agreement signed with other retailers Key Performance Index Sustainability management 2011 Plans 2011 Milestones 2012 Plans Economic · Stronger market leadership in HOD · HOD M/S 0.5%p increase · HOD service improvement (Home and Office Delivery) market · PET M/S 1.5%p increase · Quality growth of retail store channels · Higher PET ratio · Dual brand strategy development · Securing the maximum level of water sources · Development of a long-term brand portfolio · Cost & expense saving, profitability growth · Successful new product launching plan Company summary · Cost/expense management development P u l m u o n e Wa t e r s i s co m m i t t e d to Social · Safer drinkable under groundwater · Becoming the first bottled water company to · Obtaining food safety certification supplying safe water to drink to customers · More recruitment process earn FSSC 22000 certification · Employee capability development and and became the first in the industry to · Lower employee turnover rate boosting morale earn ISO 22000 and FSSC 22000. Environmental · More project WET water education · Water education in cooperation with NGOs · Project WET website creation · Continued efforts to make lighter bottles · Publicity efforts to raise awareness of Project WET · More channels for Water education project 25 CEO’s commitment · Launching the lightest water bottle of 0.5L · Lighter products development for all to sustainable management in the domestic market product lines Pulmuone Waters will promote HOD 1) FSSC(Food Safety System Certification) 22000 is the certification system approved by Global Food Safety Initiative(GFSI) as a set of new food safety business by differentiating various services standards. It is a globally accepted good safety certification system because it encompasses the already well-known food safety standards such as HACCP, and diversify its sales channels to expand BRC and IFS and it can be obtained only after passing ISO 22000 and PAS 220 screenings. its presence through efficient production and distribution management. In addition, Pulmuonw Waters will keep working to Exemplary practices Launch the lightest PET bottle in Korea foster and improve relationships for shared Pulmuone Waters developed and launched the lightest PET bottle in the domestic market that weighs 13.5g. This Industry average growth with its partners i.e. franchisees represents 10% reduction from the existing lightest PET bottle made by Pulmuone Waters that weighs 15g and 21g and distributors, boost morale and nurture around 35% reduction from the industry average of 21g. This PET bottle was developed with state-of-the-art About 35% capabilities of its employees, drivers of the technology, enabling to reduce the weight dramatically while the form and function of the bottle is preserved. business, and strive to improve customer This can contribute to reduction of around 722 tones in the volume of plastics used annually compared to other ⇩ satisfaction and customer recognition. companies. Pulmuone Waters will continue to develop lighter products to contribute to low carbon green growth. 13.5g DMA by Affiliate ORGA Authentic Wholesome Foods Whole Foods Company-run stores Shop-in-shop Natural House Organic(NHO) E-Business · 10 company-run stores in total · 41 SIS stores in total · Franchisee network · ORGA online shop · Bangbae store, Banpo store, Imae · Stores in Lotte Dept. Store, · Distributes eco-friendly foods, · Consumers can buy online all store, Daechi store, Abgujeong Donga Dept. Store, Severance health functional foods and products offered by ORGA stores store, and Bangi store, etc. Hospital and Lotte Mart,etc. health-oriented foods Sustainability management Company summary A s the bedrock of Pulmuone, ORGA Key Performance Index Whole Foods distributes carefully selected 2011 Plans 2011 Milestones 2012 Plans ‘Authentic wholesome food for the health Economic · Sustainable growth · More PB brands development · Stronger product capabilities, and happiness of all’. · Channel diversification · Open stores within Lotte Mart networks efficiency and sales capabilities ORGA Whole Foods is defined as SPAW Social · Atophy prevention campaign · Expanding Goodbye! Atophy Campaign · Earning certification as a child health (Specialty of retailer of Private label · Stronger efforts to raise awareness · LOHAS class engaging around friendly company Authentic Wholesome food). of environmentally friendly products 1,000 participants · Expanding the product traceability tracking · Efforts to enhance product safety · Launching LOHAS designer activities system CEO’s commitment Environmental · Using LED lightings · Designated as Green Store and Green · Introducing green cards to sustainable management · Using green packaging materials Card agreement(Ministry of Environment) · Increasing the use of electric motorcycles 26 As the top distributor of environmentally · Continuance of the reusable shopping bag · Broader use of eco-packaging · Continued eco-packaging development friendly food in the domestic market with campaign 30 year history, ORGA Whole Foods has built its image as a premium brand that promises the highest level of food safety. ORGA Whole Foods will strive to continue to operate as a successful company that Exemplary practices is defined as achieving profitable growth. Green Store designated by Ministry of Environment(Bangbae and Bangi stores) Furthermore, ORGA Whole Foods will ORGA Whole Foods has used energy-efficient fluorescent lights and eco-friendly materials(finishing achieve not only immediate success but materials) and replaced existing landscape and signage LED lights, etc. and used energy-efficient freezer also build foundation for sustainable facilities(Island freezer showcases installed). With these energy saving facilities(natural lights) and heat management through its concrete action insulating films, ORGA Whole Foods expect 30% energy saving annually, which also contributes to building plans called INNOVATION 4P(Product, the green corporate image and boosting its brand power. Based on these, ORGA Whole Foods was Price, Process and Pride-Up). designated by Ministry of Environment as a store contributing to the promotion of green consumption. A very personal story of Pulmuone 2 How Did Pulmuone Win the 1st Place in the US Premium Tofu Market? Pulmuone ranked no.1 in the US premium tofu market in 20 years! First, shall we look at the secret recipe to success? The key is none other than⋯ its principle of ‘100% pure nature’! The principle of 100% pure nature unveiled by Pulmuone USA represents eight rules for food safety and high nutrients, e.g. producing food with no artificial preservatives, chemical additives, MSG, artificial colorings, and artificial sweetener, excluding any hardened oil, irradiated foods and dairies produced with growth-hormones, and using only the fresh and natural ingredients which have passed non-GMO safety certification test. Pulmuone’s strong commitment to fresh and natural food has grabbed the eyes of the US consumers, and eventually ranked Pulmuone as the no.1 company in the US premium tofu market! TISO management TISO, the core value of Pulmuone, reflects genuine and earnest efforts of Pulmuone aspiring to become a transparent company for wider communities. Pulmuone has always put the primary focus on TISO values in pursuing company-wide trainings and initiatives, working to implement TISO practices across all corporate activities. Send up the rainbow of TISO TISO Management 2010 TISO, the Core Value of Pulmuone are subjected to disciplinary actions as a consequence in accordance with relevant SR regulations. Furthermore, to encourage employees to practice TISO management Dedicated organization: TISO Management Office(TISO Office) 26p more proactively, procurement managers in charge of goods, service, and Core Value construction agreements have been required to include provisions on ‘Integrity TISO represents a set of crucial values of Pulmuone Contract’ before signing a purchase contract since October 2005. Where it is not that its members need to champion and live by to turn TISO possible to include such provisions in contracts, they are then required to prepare the company’s mission and vision into reality. additional ‘Pledge for Integrity Contract’ before striking a deal. TISO management Trust Integrity Solidarity Openness TISO management charter Abiding by Professional honesty Alignment of one's Cooperation with Starting point of the business: Customer promises and rules for the proper goal with the goal an open mind 1. We shall do our best to fulfill customer's satisfaction. performance of of the company 2. We innovate our products and services to be more customer-oriented. one's duty Community: Ground of the Business 1. We realize the spirits of loving our neighbors and respecting lives by spreading TISO always comes first as the core value of the company across all corporate the value of LOHAS. activities, and Pulmuone dedicates itself to building transparent and wholesome 2. We devote to the sustainability of the community through activities of social 29 corporate culture by spreading TISO across the company. In an effort to contribution and environmental preservation. proactively implement TISO practices, Pulmuone has established ‘Operational Business Partner: Collaborator of Business Provisions for TISO Management’, ‘ Employee Code of Conduct for TISO’ and 1. We administer fair transaction with our business partners in an equal position. ‘Report & Compensation Guideline for TISO Management’. 2. We are against all types of unfairly obtained objects of bribes. * Pulmuone Waters is subjected to both TISO, Pulmuone code of ethics, and Nestle code of ethics. Organization: Body to Drive Business 1. We passionately work with the responsibility of our task and roles. Anti-corruption policy & integrity contract scheme 2. We achieve the best performance through an active cooperation and innovation. ‘Employee Code of Conduct for TISO’ has been developed to strictly ban employees Behavior of Pulmuone-people: Member of the Organization from receiving, promoting and condoning inappropriate favors including gifts, 1. We serve with a right mind. entertainment, treats or convenience directly or indirectly offered by other 2. We always strive for the best. stakeholders. Employees who turn out to be involved in such indecent behavior 3. We maintain a healthy life. TISO management training Fair trade compliance Pulmuone has extended TISO training course to include promoters and employees To promote fair trade, the Compliance Council members working in relevant with specialty alike in order to spread the right mindset and commitment to departments examine semi-annually the risk of fair trade violation with their ethical management across the company. TISO management is a compulsory leader in order to identify potential violation risks. The council also monitors subject in the value-sharing POP(Pride of Pulmuone) course designed for new enactment and amendment of relevant legislations every month and report the entrants. For frontline employees such as plant workers with special skills as well findings to the Corporate Crisis Management Committee to include them in the as ECMD dieticians and promotional staff who cannot physically attend training subsequently generated compliance checklist. The self-monitoring policy for fair sessions as they have to be at the field to fulfill their job tasks, more than 10 trade legislations is included in the company-wide control items of the internal times of quarterly training sessions have been provided separately. accounting management system prepared not only for internal examination but for review by outside auditors. The result of outside review is published in the TISO management [Training completion by new employees] form of an audit report and shared with all stakeholders. Year 2009 2010 2011 Number of 85 78 174 Operation for fair trade compliance trainees(ppl) Pulmuone has announced the first Monday of every January and July to be the ‘Day for Fair Trade Compliance Program’ to make fair trade compliance settle in its TISO management activities corporate culture. Holiday gift return It has produced an online version of the fair trade compliance guidebook After implementing the ‘Holiday Gift Return’ policy which embodies the company’ and uploaded it on the Pulmuone website to provide an easy access to all s determination to eliminate the gift-giving practice of stakeholders, Pulmuone 30 stakeholders. The online version includes 2011 amendments of relevant communicates an official notice stating the policy before holidays. Gifts delivered legislations, the current status of Pulmuone and cases of violation, while adding against the notice are all returned and those that cannot be returned are put on cartoons on fair trade, franchise business and subcontract acts to facilitate better an auction at less than 50% of their market price and the auction proceeds go to understanding of readers. the ‘Love Neighbor Fund’. As the awareness about the policy rises, the number of holiday gifts delivered to Pulmuone is decreasing. Publication of compliance program operation [Number of reports and value of returned holiday gifts] Pulmuone’s performance in 2011 and future operational plans for fair trade Year Number of reports Value compliance have been published through the e-disclosure system prepared by 2009 35 KRW 1,449,000 the Financial Supervisory Service. The disclosure is to provide information on the 2010 28 KRW 1,046,000 compliance program for stakeholders and to increase implementation of the program. 2011 19 KRW 1,439,000 A very personal story of Pulmuone 3 Did You Just Say Pulmuone Planted Grape Vines in Africa? For a long time, Pulmuone has given much thought to how to change the future of African children. After much mulling with genuine concern, Pulmuone decided to plant grape vines in Malawi, the southeastern part of Africa, that can be grown with the only resource Malawi has, WATER. 1) At the first stage of the project, 150~200 trees will be planted in a plot located within the CDP center as a demonstration. By the way, why has Pulmuone chosen grape vines in the first place? It is because a cluster of grapes sells at 10 dollars in that country, which is sufficient to give the much-needed income for survival to Malawi households, and furthermore, grape processing technology has more room for development to further boost its profitability down the road. Pulmuone plans to provide one grape vine per low-income household of Malawi, and profits from selling grapes will be spent to help them achieve economic independence. Pulmuone dreams of a 1) CDP Children Development brighter tomorrow where Malawi children can go to school and talk about their hopes, escaping from today ’s grim Program: Center of education for circumstance where they can hardly get by, worrying about the next meal all the time. children of low-income families Economic milestones Pulmuone has evolved constantly to keep its promise to provide only the authentic wholesome foods to its customers. Pulmuone now combines its creative innovation with the business principle to attain its vision ‘Global DP5’. Pulmuone aspires to become the world’ s no.1 food company leading LOHAS values, going beyond being the no.1 just in Korea. Wind of innovation Economic Performance Major Financial Performance The BEM index of the Pulmuone brand is generated based on brand management index(expertise, credibility, affinity), and the resulting brand assets serve as the basis After transforming itself into a pure holding company by improving its corporate 1) when evaluating brand competitiveness such as loyalty, Tom , etc. The 2011 survey governance in 2008, Pulmuone introduced K-IFRS(Korean International produced a slightly improved result compared to the previous year, implying consumers’ Financial Reporting Standards) in 2009 for the first time in the food industry of trust and affection toward Pulmuone brand had increased from the 2010 level. Korea, which is to increase its corporate value by earning global trust about its Although brand loyalty and brand management indexes of competitors also improved, management transparency and financial information. indexes of Pulmuone including brand loyalty are still above those of the competitors. Its sales exceeded 1 trillion won in 2009, for the first time since its establishment, 1) TOM(Top of Mind) The TOM survey lists top 5 companies in the answer to the question, “ Which and grew to 1.4 trillion won in 2011. Economic milestones packaged food company is on top of your mind when thinking of the food industry?” [Brand Management Index] Unit: % Brand Equity Expertise Year Pulmuone A Pulmuone A Every year, Pulmuone conducts the BEM(Brand Equity Management) survey 78.3 2009 ▲3 74.2 76.7 73.3 71.5 to assess its brand value. The survey includes 1,550 housewives aged 30 to 2010 81.7 73.3 ▲8 54 years(20 to 39 year old female for I ’m Real brand) living in Seoul and the 2011 78.3 74.2 ▲4 surrounding metropolitan areas who have bought Pulmuone products within one Pulmuone A company B company month before the survey. The BEM figure is generated based on the 1:1 interview 33 with the respondents using the survey questionnaire. Brands subjected to the Credibility Year Pulmuone A Pulmuone A 82.0 survey include Pulmuone corporate brand, Pulmuone, SOGA, Saeng Gadeuk(fresh 2009 80.0 75.0 ▲5 75.3 71.8 noodle), Chan Maru(side dish), I’m Real, and other master brands. Out of the 1,550 2010 76.7 71.7 ▲5 respondents, 200 participated in the corporate BEM survey(characteristics of the 2011 82.0 75.3 ▲7 annual survey sample are kept same through sample screening). Pulmuone A company B company [Brand Equity Tracking(Last 3 Years)] Affinity Year Pulmuone A Pulmuone A 79.7 78.9 Pulmuone 78.6 A company 2009 78.3 73.3 ▲5 74.4 69.8 (N=200, Unit: Score) 69.5 74.0 2010 75.0 70.0 ▲5 73.0 63.8 *The survey did not expose any image related 2011 ▲4 78.6 74.4 to Pulmuone, and the order of mentioning 2009 2010 2011 company names was differed per respondent. Pulmuone A company B company * Source: 2011 Pulmuone BEM Index Report, Gallup Korea, Dec. 2011 Innovative & Creative Management consumers enjoy the rich flavor and nutrients from nature, and gives a healthy sweet taste by using Agave syrup and oilgo saccharide instead of processed white Dedicated organization: TISO Office and CR(Cost Reduction) Department, sugar. Strategic Planning Teams of affiliates, Research Institute of Food and Culture Patent on increasing absorption of red ginseng saponin Aiming for ‘product and service innovation’, ‘quality innovation’ and Saponin, the major health nutrient of ginseng or red ginseng, has to be ‘process innovation’, Pulmuone drives the Green Meeting, proposal for Irumi disintegrated into saponin metabolite to be absorbed in the intestines of a human innovation, new market creation and entry, new product development, patent body to boost the healthful effects of ginseng. Pulmuone has developed a way application and registration, seed improvement and others. to facilitate human body’s absorption of saponin in red ginseng, which is to use thermogenesis of a natural substance(piperine) derived from black pepper. The Economic milestones Innovative & Creative Management Activity compound K, which has superb anti-cancer property, can be absorbed by our Goso-ake, fried tofu in Japanese style bodies only when it is taken with red ginseng and black pepper. Similarly, other Goso-ake is Japanese-style tofu. Fried in soybean oil, it is chewy outside but still saponin elements can be absorbed faster and more effectively when they are soft inside keeping the texture of tofu but being hard enough not to be broken taken with black pepper than taken alone(patent easily. For convenient consumption, Goso-ake is cut into small number: 10-2011-0026941). Ginhyowon, the pieces before being cooked, but it is also a ready-to-eat product ginseng brand of Pulmuone, is the representative with no need to cook or griddle. product developed by applying this technology. 34 Napjak Jijim Dumpling griddled like pancake Unlike traditional fried dumplings, Napjak Jijim(flat and thin) Dumpling can be fried in a pan like a pancake. It has delicious taste Vitamin product in soft vegetable capsule with chewy texture by adding rich tasty flavor to the skin(tried the Capsules are most in use for health or functional food. Traditional capsules are first time in Korea) with much cabbage put into the stuffing to mostly based on gelatin, but Pulmuone has invented a vegetable capsule where complete fresh and light taste. the latest technology is applied to turn corn starch and red algae-extracted carrageenan into gel for the capsules. It applies Muesli, made of 100% homegrown grains vegetable omega-3 ingredients and vegetable capsule Pulmuone recently introduced Muesli, the cereal brand to Real Vitamin MVP Multipack to produce a safe which uses 100% domestic grains instead of imported corn product with healthful functions for wellness-conscious for its ingredients. It has grains and varied fruits to make consumers. Processed meat products to boost demand of those suitable to tackle the problem is formed, and the company gives the for domestic beef team a proper place for meetings to brainstorm ideas and generate solutions to Foodmerce has introduced Our Beef Hamburg Steak, which the problem. gets 43% of the materials from Korean beef to help domestic In 2011, Green Meeting extended communication between employees, creating farmers raising livestock who are currently going through opportunities to learn throughout the problem-solving process while spreading a hard time due to foot-and-mouth disease and economic corporate culture for innovation. From March to December, a total of 19 TFTs slowdown as well as rising global crop and oil prices. It is were formed with 130 employees actively participating for further development planning to further introduce a wide range of Korean beefof the company. based meat products such as meat ball, ham, and sausage. Best practices Economic milestones Low-temperature maturing Facebook page for marketing Exofresh Logistics has introduced a low-temperature maturing process for tofu Pulmuone opened its Facebook page on September 14, 2011 to leverage its when opening an automatic logistics warehouse in Eumsung Logistics Center potential and power in marketing and promotion. By December 2011, a total of in order to enhance product quality and establish a production-logistics system 2,270 people have joined as it performs various activities including promotional where producing and delivering products can be completed in less than one day. events for product and brand, and VOC(Voice of Customers) gathering. Currently, The effort resulted in synergy effects as better quality from the low-temperature Pulmuone is considering other varied social contribution campaigns along with maturing process and one-day delivery was successfully translated into a great idea contests for new products to facilitate customer engagement. boost for customer satisfaction. This enables differentiated marketing strategy Pulmuone Facebook page 35 that gives the company an edge in the market. In addition, opening an automatic www.facebook.com/pulmuonelove warehouse(chilled and frozen facilities) at Eumsung Logistics Center has led to better logistics process and operational system as what used to be done manually has now become automated, lessening workload and pressure for time. It went into full operation in April 2011, and has driven logistics capacity increase and service quality improvement. Irumi Proposal for Innovation Irumi Proposal for Innovation serves as a venue where all employees of Pulmuone Green Meeting can come forward with any creative ideas for corporate development or proposals Pulmuone has borrowed the idea from the Work-Out system of GE to design its for improvement. In 2011, a total of 4,550 proposals were submitted and among own innovative problem-solving scheme called ‘Green Meeting’. When a problem them, 2,048 ideas were adopted, which means the idea utilization rate reaches urgently needed to be addressed is identified, a cross-functional team consisting about 45%. Types of Irumi Proposals Irumi mascot Among the proposals submitted to Irumi, ideas for promotional events or product In the second half of 2011, Pulmuone designed a mascot for planning ranked first with the number of 1,258 cases in total, and proposals Irumi to use it as a communication tool to translate ideas into for product improvement ranked second with 704 cases in total. Under Irumi tangible performance improvement and derive qualitative Innovation Proposal, Pulmuone people are working hard to offer better products growth from received ideas. The mascot would become the face and services to consumers. There were also 376 ideas for new product/business, of Irumi scheme to make it friendly to employees, which can indicating Pulmuone members have great interest in corporate development and facilitate employee participation in the idea proposal scheme. Rumi, the Irumi mascot are highly motivated to make the company a leader with great growth potential. Cost reduction activities 1) [Irumi proposal type & status] In 2011, CR(Cost Reduction) initiatives of the Production Headquarters which had Economic milestones been operated separately were integrated for better management with a focus Type 2010 2011 Outcome Product 618 704 Sales increase, product idea, change to on generating financial performance and reducing food cost. As a result of the improvement specification and design, quality and function integration, a total of 95 initiatives were implemented in 2011 with 6.6 billion won improvement, etc of cost reduction. Work 515 550 Process improvement, ideas related to work 1) CR(Cost Reduction) initiatives: Corporate activities to monitor cost productivity trend of the organization and its employees, and measure their financial performances in order to reduce work inefficiency and improvement and task, etc maximize synergy between different functions, which can help eliminate any waste in process. New product/ 238 376 Opportunity to create new markets, biz benchmarking of other companies, etc Eumsung Logistics Center Pulmuone opened a low-temperature logistics center in Eumsung, North 36 Better office 175 201 Power consumption reduction, green environment management tactics, etc. Chugcheong Province on the largest scale in Korea. It established EOS1)(Eumsung 1) CR & CBI 2) 25 52 Enterprise-wide cost cutting, fringe benefits Operating System), EAS2)(Eumsung Aging System), DPS3)(Digital Picking System) and welfare for employees, etc. and DAS 4)(Digital Assorting System) through the project to build infrastructure Others 1,356 1,258 Promotional events and planning and software to support operation of the logistics center. Ideas from 194 1,409 Proposals from Pulmuone Health & Living, 1) EOS(Eumsung Operating System) It enables sorter picking through picking volume allocation and allocation label production. affiliates Foodmerce, ORGA Whole Foods, ECMD 2) EAS(Eumsung Aging System) It stores products Total 3,121 4,550 45% growth year-on-year supplied from plants into the logistics center and supports product delivery from the center. 3) DPS(Digital Picking System) It performs the picking treatment of individual products. * The number of ideas from affiliates is relatively low as the scheme in these companies is in its early stage. 4) DAS(Digital Assorting System) It supports integrated 1) CR(Cost Reduction): Ideas to reduce cost picking for direct delivery, courier service and shopping 2) CBI(Critical Business Issues): Critical issues for business mall delivery. A very personal story of Pulmuone 4 Pulmuone Comes to Woori Village of Ganghwa Island! Around 20 Pulmuone people led by Pulmuone Foods CEO Lee Hyo-yul visited the Woori village in the Ganghwa island to make Kimch and bake bread for neighbors in need. They also donated tasty Pulmuone foods such as tofu and dumplings to upwards of 60 Woori residents. Such genuine kindness and goodwill fostered friendship between Pulmuone people and Woori residents. Then, why did Pulmuone family visit Woori village out of numerous villages in Korea? That was because Pulmuone wanted to help the mentally challenged people in the Woori village stand on their own by selling environment-friendly bean sprouts produced in that village and helping distribute the product. The Woori village is a nonprofit rehabilitation center which helps its 60 intellectually challenged people to achieve economic independence through rehabilitation. Pulmuone signed an MOU on outsourcing bean sprout production and delivery on October 25, 2011, promising to make environment-friendly bean sprouts of the Woori village as one of the products Pulmuone sells. The bean sprouts produced in the Woori village are now available at Pulmuone ORGA Whole Foods stores, department stores, or stores of the national agricultural cooperative federation. Social milestones Pulmuone always thinks about how to make customers, employees and partners happier. It truly believes making our society right through a gamut of social contribution campaigns is as important as producing the authentic wholesome food. Pulmuone wishes for a society where everyone can find his/her own happiness. Share love through ‘social contribution’ Social Performance _ Customers 2010 Food Safety Management Information Sharing SR Pulmuone screens food ingredients based on the food safety management Dedicated organization: CS center and CS team of each subsidiary/affiliate 36p standards, and excludes those which have gone through preservative treatment Complete labeling & labeling review by Foodmerce or irradiation from its production process at the source for food safety. It uses no Foodmerce brand products(Barunsun, Bon&Sun) carry a label that lists all ingredients chemical additives at all for its products, and strictly controls the entire production to provide customers with accurate product information. To ensure more thorough process ranging from materials procurement to production and distribution in management of its labeling practices, Foodmerce put in place Labeling Review accordance with its own food safety management standards. Committee led by Foodmerce Food Safety Center, which reviews and monitors that product labels and information displayed on the product packaging are in compliance Social milestones with relevant laws and regulation. Activities to provide authentic wholesome food Food safety center Pulmuone e-shop service innovation To closely monitor product safety of its plants, Pulmuone has established a branch office Pulmuone’s online shopping mall, Pulmuone e-shop, offers various services such as for food safety center in Eumsung, North Chungcheong Province. At the office for food advanced notification of scheduled delivery which informs the customer of the expected safety, microbe, physicochemical, and sensory monitoring is conducted on fresh food delivery date to enhance customer convenience, Pulmuone gift certificate that can be every day and there is ongoing inspection on the sanitary status of every production used when customers want to give Pulmuone products as present, customer-oriented plant. It has a wide range of devices for microbe and physicochemical test in place that category design to help customers easily locate products they want, tasty recipe service can be used by professional researchers for on-site food safety management. that shows various recipes based on Pulmuone products, and new complete labeling 39 system that guarantees transparent and full disclosure of product information. They are Newly introduced test methodologies all designed to innovate the company’s service and process. To improve analysis precision on functional and harmful materials, and expand the management scope, Pulmuone has designed new test methodologies for new Pulmuone plant tour program ingredients or elements. In 2011, the company introduced new analysis methods Pulmuone offers a tour program around its production plants to raise customer interest and improved precision of the existing methods for eight cosmetic antiseptic and understanding on its production process. The plant tour program has been in agents, dietary fiber, gluten, hexanal, polyphenol, eight mycotoxins, five animal operation since 2008, and has grown in scale. For example, in 2010, there were 88 growth hormones, paralytic shellfish poisoning, and fluorescent whitening agent. tour sessions that included 2,538 participants, and in 2011, a total of 85 sessions were It also confirmed safety of napkins used for contract meal service and other arranged with 2,388 people participating in the program. In 2012, 98 tour sessions are disposable items by undertaking a test for fluorescent whitening agents. scheduled and a maximum of 3,400 people are expected to participate in the program. Customer Communication Work site visits by Foodmerce Foodmerce incorporates feedbacks from VOC by visiting worksites and collecting Dedicated organization: CS Center, CS Dept of each subsidiary/affiliate VOCs. In 2011, it visited 30 worksites in total, and gathered VOCs through Pulmuone provides the phone number of CS Center to places where consumers various channels(schools, day care centers) for operational improvement. It also have access and runs the Voice of Customers bulletin board in every affiliate undertakes sanitary monitoring designed to check legal, sanitary, and safety website where consumers can receive responses to their questions or complaints factors of the worksites in order to prevent sanitary accidents. The average in less than 24 hours. The company also operates CCM(Customer Centered satisfaction score of 125 services in 2011 stood at 4.46(on a scale of 1 to 5). The Management) program for accurate product information, which is to offer a work site visit to collect VOCs will be expanded further in 2012. prompt and appropriate response to possible customer complaints or damage to customers. Survey by ORGA Whole Foods Social milestones In 2011, Korea Consumer Agenc y, the government entit y, evaluated To listen to customer opinions, ORGA Whole Foods conducted a survey which CCM(Consumer Centered Management) under Pulmuone Foods and ECMD and included 226 customers who had visited directly operated franchise stores, had the results certified by Korea Fair Trade Commission, making Pulmuone the and carried out 1:1 interviews with randomly selected individual customers for only enterprise in Korea whose entire subsidiaries and affiliates have all received objective assessment. The collected customer opinions were analyzed to identify the CCM accreditation. the cause of their dissatisfaction, which would later be incorporated with the efforts for improvement. Customer communication initiatives VOC(Voice Of Customer) & VOE(Voice Of Employee) 40 The CS Center also manages VOC(Voice of Customers) for Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living and Pulmuone Waters. As of December 2011, 122,355 VOC reports were submitted, posting 43.7% increase from 85,147 cases in 2010. Major drivers of the increase include facilitation of baby meal business, spread of CVS(convenient store) and other new distribution channels, increased sales of Pulmuone e-shop, and increase in customer inquiry about new products. As for complaints against corporate distribution, continued monitoring and education for franchisees has reduced consumer complaints against food franchisees and green juice franchisees by 25.4% and 33.6% respectively. Customer Satisfaction Management to conduct a survey, the first of its kind in the industry, to better measure customer satisfaction level, and developed a real-time online receipt survey program for Customer satisfaction survey restaurants to identify customer needs and incorporate them in the restaurant Call center service survey by Pulmuone practices real-time. The customer satisfaction score of 2011 stood at 83.9 points, posting a slight 1) Mystery shopping: An evaluation on staff service, store environment and food undertaken by professional mystery shoppers to find rooms for improvement in concession stores and guide decrease from the previous survey result. The decline was largely driven by proactive efforts for better service quality. dissatisfaction with the way how call center reps responded with customers and dealt with their requests. Pulmuone’s call monitoring score was 95.2 points, Personal information protection which was similar to the previous year. Pulmuone has an ongoing program to preempt any violation against customer privacy and personal information, and introduces various initiatives to find Social milestones CCM index management by Foodmerce the loopholes and fill in the gaps. In 2011, it allowed membership without In an effort to realize one of its business principles, the management for customer collecting resident registration numbers to reduce excessive gathering of personal satisfaction, CCM(Consumer Centered Management) has been introduced for information. In addition to this, to preempt theft, forgery, and leak of personal operation. In 2011, Pulmuone measured the CCM monitoring results and manage information, Pulmuone introduced mobile phone authentication in July followed the results as CCM index. Such efforts contributed to boosting the average CCM by i-PIN based membership grant in September, and added the authentication index for the fourth quarter to 73.0 points, a major increase from 62.2 points for process when modifying personal information or finding a password in the first quarter of 2011. November. Thanks to such endeavors in addition to quarterly security checks and improvement, security issues were reduced by 67% compared to 2010. These 41 Customer satisfaction survey by ECMD efforts will be continued further in 2012 so as to make handling and processing ECMD carries out a semi-annual customer satisfaction survey which consists of customers’ personal information much safer. 25 questions in three aspects such as food menus, sanitation and facilities, and service. To have a comprehensive view on satisfaction level of visitors with concession stores and resting lounges, 1) mystery shopping in combination with customer satisfaction survey has been undertaken which will be utilized to offer better services. In 2011, the company used iPad as a tool Survey through iPad Social Performance _ Executives & Employees Employment Status stands at 10.9% and the rate for SMEs(small-and-medium enterprises) is as high as 18%. And the average work period has been on the increase to record 5.2 Under the fair and equal employment principle, there is no discrimination in years as of late 2011. Pulmuone against women or the physically challenged when recruiting, hiring and treating its employees, and the company makes strenuous efforts to protect human rights of its employees. Communication is valued when managing the Pulmuone employees As of late 2011 labor-management relationship to create mutual benefits, balance between life Job creation and work is promoted to stabilize the life of employees, and systemic efforts are 6.8% 4,753 Social milestones provided for employees to practice LOHAS way of life through a LOHAS program where employees can have a chance to experience it. Executives & employees Temporary employment status As of late 2011, there were 4,753 executives and employees in Pulmuone. Among Workers with short-term fixed contracts accounted for 12.2%, which is them, the majority of the workers were in sales, logistics and production apart basically similar to that of last year, proving Pulmuone is working to increase the from office workers. The proportion of senior executives is 0.82% of the entire proportion of full-time permanent workers. employees as of late 2011. 42 Job creation & turnover rate The job creation rate for 2011 was 6.8% with the monthly turnover rate is 2.34% on average, posting a stabilizing trend over a long-term horizon. The turnover rate of 2.3% includes both temporary and regular workers across the Pulmuone Group. When looked at individually by job group, the turnover rate was 1.8% for regular workers, and 6.2% for temporary workers. Within the regular employees, the turnover rate of dieticians and cooks were higher in ECMD because of their work characteristics, and for temporary employees, it was driven higher because of event promoters and part-time workers with short-term work contracts. However, Pulmuone’s turnover rate is much lower than those of comparable other businesses since generally in Korea, the average turnover rate of big businesses Performance Management & Compensation Work-life balance Performance management system C-cubic(Culture, Creative, Change) for GWP(Great Work Place) Pulmuone has CFS(Communication for Success) in place for performance In recognition of its efforts designed to improve corporate culture and social management, which consists of evaluation on achievements and capabilities, contribution such as the employee a cappella contest, ‘Non-Smoking King & Diet reflecting different job characteristics in its evaluation items and elements. The War’, ‘I am the King Cook for Authentic Wholesome Foods’, and ‘You are the primary objective of CFS is to generate good performance through proactive Santa Claus’ campaigns, Pulmuone received a prize in sales and distribution sector communication. at 2011 GWP Korea Award organized by GWP Korea. The performance management system has been introduced to all business units as goal-based management system, obligating communication meetings Social milestones between subordinates and their leaders, aligning each business unit’s goals with the corporate aspiration, and providing feedbacks based on ongoing monitoring to enhance corporate performance. It also streamlined the system for career management, future career plan, and feedback provision, which can be leveraged 1 2 down the road for career development of employees. 3 [CFS process] or 1)MBO Management By Objectives o n it P la A c ti o n & M n MBO1 ) 43 2011 GWP Korea Award 1 Employee a cappella contest 2 As k sess ac I am the King Cook for Authentic Wholesome Foods 3 & Feedb Retirement annuity regime EAP(Employee Assistance Program) Starting from November 30, 2011, Pulmuone introduced a retirement annuity Pulmuone promotes employee work-life balance by offering EAP(Employee regime to its 11 worksites in order to help its employees be prepared for their later Assistance Program) consisting of special lectures and professional counseling stage in life by securely accumulating their retirement assets. The retirement annuity service guaranteeing confidentiality operated as part of its ‘Happiness Program’. type is DB(defined benefits), which promises to pay the same amount of money as As of late December 2011, 13.5%(6.4%, average of other companies) have the previous retirement regime to fulfill the employees’ needs for financial security attended counseling sessions and their satisfaction score was 86 points compared as they face longer years after retirement in this fast aging society. to 82 points of other companies. Female-friendly culture workers(research staff), women make up for 31% and 17% of Pulmuone Female-friendly corporate culture is essential to help female workers continue managers are women. The overall share of female workers slightly declined their careers after marriage while taking care of their children, the future of our compare to the previous year, but the share of female managers has increased. country. Pulmuone recognizes the high value of female talents and strives to Year 2009 2010 2011 create institutional and cultural environment where women can maintain balance Female workers 56% 56% 55% between their work and family. Female workers in office 33% 34% 31% [Female-friendly environment] Female managers 15% 15% 17% Program Description Paternity leave Provide 3 days of leave when an employee’s spouse Training System & Talent Development Social milestones gives birth Nursery room Open an in-house nursery room for female workers Orientation training reinforced for new entrants with infants Pulmuone offers dual-track orientation training to help new entrants adjust Maternity leave Encourage married female workers to freely take out themselves to their works and corporate culture as the company has year-round & childcare leave maternity or childcare leaves upon their needs(the recruiting policy. The dual-track training consists of one-day training on essential return rate after maternity leave: 92%, job information and work guidance given right after the new employees come childcare leave: 85%) to work, and quarterly training for new entrants across the company on the Flexible work system Reduce work hours or offer flexible work regime(allow POP(Pride of Pulmuone) course where new employees can experience and learn employees to come to work or leave at different time) the aspirations of Pulmuone. The dual-track training addresses hardships that new 44 when employees have to take care of their babies employees might face during their acclamation process and provides a chance to Congratulatory money Pay congratulatory gratuity for employees’ childbirth, or learn the corporate core values in detail. for childbirth or school entrance of their children school entrance Knowledge worker training to reinforce core competency of children Under the recognition that it is ‘humans’ that make the organization sustainable, Child-raising allowance Pay a defined amount of monthly allowance per child Pulmuone designed a unique program on its organizational culture in 2011 which to support childcare of female workers until their contains Pulmuone language and cases to develop human talents. Employees children become 24 months old come to understand the mission, vision and core values of Pulmuone, and learn how to improve their core competencies in order to grow into the talent the Female employment status company wants. As of December 2011, a total of 23 talent development training Female workers account for 55% of the entire work force. In office sessions were delivered with about 700 employees completing the course. Labor-Management Communication Labor Union Pulmuone opens a venue for its labor and management come together on a Membership qualifications & provisions regular basis to discuss working conditions, wage, and collective bargaining As of late December 2011, there existed seven labor unions within Pulmuone. The every year. It has also introduced varied communication initiatives to promptly union membership rate stands at 64.7% out of those entitled to join, and the circulate and communicate overall management directions and corporate vision company guarantees employees the freedom to join a labor union and participate to employees. It is an effort to support the employees to have ownership and in union activities as clearly stated in the collective agreement. actively engage themselves in the management process. Status of union members Grievance redress & labor-management council Pulmuone guarantees its workers the right of assembly. Each labor union Social milestones To listen to employee complaints and address grievances, Pulmuone has defines the qualifications and conditions of membership according to its own designated grievance redress officers, and opened a separate counseling office provisions, and those entitled to labor unions can freely join unions to carry out to resolve complaints of employees. It organized quarterly labor-management union activities as members. In addition, those who are recognized as Pulmuone discussion for each work site, and agreements and results coming out of the employees are fully allowed to establish a labor union themselves. discussions are put on the internal bulletin board to be shared with employees across the enterprise. In the future, Pulmuone plans to conduct preemptive monitoring in addition to the ongoing grievance redress to prevent employee grievance in the first place. 45 [Union membership update] Plant type Doan green juice Doan health Eumsung tofu Chuncheon tofu Uiryeong tofu Pulmuone Waters Sprout Total functional food Union type Company-level Company-level Company-level Industry-level Industry-level Company-level Company-level head union AFIU(Association ACIU(Association of ACIU of FKTU CTIU(Chemical and CTIU of KCTU FKTU ACIU of FKTU of Food Industry Chemical Industry Textile Industry Union) Unions) of FKTU Unions) of FKTU of KCTU(Korean (Federation of Confederation of Korean Trade Unions) Trade Unions) Total(ppl) 83 68 141 98 64 108 56 621 Those qualified(ppl) 71 59 102 82 56 71 44 487 Union members(ppl) 70 56 102 25 23 21 17 315 Membership rate(%) 98.6 94.9 100 30.5 41.1 29.2 38.6 64.7 Workplace Safety Safe Workplace Program & Training Occupational accident, number of the injured, absence rate Standard manual for workplace safety The overall occupational accident rate of Pulmuone is 0.8%, which is 0.17% Pulmuone has written a standard safety manual based on the characteristics of each lower than the food industry average(as of November 2011). Pulmuone’s accident worksite to preempt material occupational accidents and prevent risks of handling rate in 2011 increased by about 0.1% compared to 2010. The slight increase was machinery at the source. It informs its workers of risk points on a regular basis and largely driven by the occupational accident rate of the promoters. Aware of this, places the manual at every facility for safety operation, which is also utilized in the the company is working to reduce the accident rate by offering sustained safety training course for all employees, new entrants, and TBM(Tool Box Meeting). training to temporary workers and developing a safety manual. The total number When developing the manual, Pulmuone involved facility managers and team/ of injured employees in 2011 stood at 21, and the subsequent employee absence department leaders of the field in the process with the objective of making Social milestones rate was 0.16%. all employees take initiative in managing safety by identifying loopholes and rooms of improvement. It also strives to preempt an accident and damage 2.00 Food to employee health by implementing a 52-week relay campaign designed to 1.25 1.20 production address imperfections of its occupational health safety, and identifying near-miss 1.00 1.01 0.97 industry 0.80 accidents for improvement. Such proactive safety initiatives led by the company 0.70 Pulmuone has greatly improved safety management capability of each worksite, naturally 0.00 leading to heightened employee awareness of occupational safety. 2009 2010 2011 Program on illness prevention & health improvement 46 * Exhibit: Cumulative occupational accident rate released by the Ministry of Labor in November 2011(absence rate: (total days of absence/scheduled work days in total) x 100)) Pulmuone has proactively introduced various programs such as supporting purchase of health and living products, offering health check-ups, operating a gym for physical strength, and carrying out a campaign to prevent musculoskeletal and other illnesses. Compliance with occupational safety laws Thanks to Pulmuone’s efforts to improve employee health, all worksites of the Pulmuone monitors any amendments of occupational safety laws and shares company have been equipped with in-house gyms by December 2011. the results across the enterprise through its internal Occupational Safety Policy and program on illness Council(convened every two months). It also makes annual diagnosis on its prevention and health improvement compliance with relevant laws. The compliance rate was 89.4% in 2009, 96.2% in 2010, and 96.8% in 2011. Starting from 2011, Pulmuone has monitored the management status through its management system for voluntary management of occupational safety and legal compliance by its worksites. Social Performance _ Partners [Supplier selection & contract-signing process] Research center , Production dept head (Marketing, Research center Input) Owner 1) Marketing, 2) ‘Must visit the field Research center, SCM purchase Marketing SCM purchase QM , SCM purchase at least once’ SCM purchase SCM purchase Development request for new Supplier Candidate Field visit by top mgmt Process DB building product/ development inspection top mgmt discussion Contract signing renewal 3) Social milestones · Supplier pool · NPD Pipeline · Fit with business · Facility/sanitary level · Business mindset · QM inspection · Legal issues Check Point · Supplier grade · Market research objective · Possibility of · Ethics result · Contract period · Supplier sourcing · Business capability improvement · Specialty · Financial evaluation · Quality specification · Economics · Financial evaluation 1) SCM Supply Chain Management 2) QM Quality Management 3) NPD New Product Development Partner Selection Process partner evaluation in order to encourage them to pursue socially responsible and environmentally friendly initiatives. Pulmuone process to select partner companies 47 The first priority Pulmuone puts when selecting its suppliers is the sanitary Supplier Pledge of Pulmuone Waters level of their production environment. It has to be confirmed through onPulmuone Waters looks for partners with strong commitment to maintaining site inspection whether they are in compliance with the requirements of the its strong brand value and trust, and driving its inclusive growth strategy when Food Sanitation Act and aligned with the quality principle of Pulmuone. The selecting franchisees and distributors. Pulmuone also mandates its partners to results of the inspection serve as guidance to select suppliers who guarantee read and confirm the contents of ‘Supplier Pledge’, and sign it for submission. the basic quality level Pulmuone seeks. As for candidates who fall short of the Supplier Pledge has been prepared based on the ethical, moral and sustainability Pulmuone criteria, Pulmuone shares rooms for improvement with them before management principles of Nestle a primary requirement for all suppliers. The carrying out a second round of inspection, thereby offering an opportunity for pledge consists of business transparency/integrity, sustainability, employment transparent and fair transaction. Meanwhile, those who have implemented green criteria, safety and sanitation, environment, audit and suspension of supply management practices such as using environment-friendly ingredients can be contract while serving as a prerequisite to sign a contract with Pulmuone Waters. included in the priority candidate list and receive additional points in the regular Win-Win Collaboration with Partners comprehensive inspection on 49 OEM supplier candidates at the first round of screening and after that, put them through the second round to finally come up Activities for win-win collaboration with six partners consisting of the no. 1 player in each of six categories. Exofresh Logistics There are two types of partner companies for Exofresh Logistics. One is the Pulmuone Health & Living consignors of goods which outsource 3PL(3rd-party logistics) services, and – partner evaluation on sustainability management the other is logistics service supporters such as transportation companies, Pulmuone Health & Living primarily looks at social and environmental subcontractors and facility companies. Exofresh Logistics offers tailored optimum contribution when assessing its partners. Clean production environment and cold-storage logistics service which guarantees the exact time, temperature and process inspection are prerequisites for sustainability management of partner delivery amount to the 3PL players with the support from partners who provide companies. Clean production environment is especially a primary condition to Social milestones logistics optimization service. provide authentic wholesome foods, and therefore, takes up a huge proportion in partner evaluation. Even after selecting suppliers, Pulmuone Health & Living Pulmuone Waters monitors financial health, deadline observance, quality competitiveness, price Franchisees and distributors of Pulmuone Waters are usually operated as sole competitiveness and business capability of partner suppliers on a regular proprietorship since they require only small amount of capital for starting basis(annually) and adjusts sourcing rules by executing strategy fit for a supplier a business. Aware of the constraints of small business, the headquarters of type such as strategic partnership, long-term partnership, or short-term Pulmuone Waters offers business expertise over the long term through its training partnership based on its evaluation criteria. programs and business guidance to support stable business operation over the 48 long haul. Deep and strong trust as a consequence of such efforts between the Foodmerce headquarters and distributors is thought to be the main reason for significantly Foodmerce conducts periodic inspection on its partners by enlisting FTC(Food lower franchisee attrition relative to other companies. Material Technology Center) officers working for FSC(Food Safety Center). It executes intensive inspection on partners during summer when food poisoning Supplier Inspection risk gets higher, and undertakes analysis on microbe and safety of food materials and finished products. The results of regular inspection are communicated to Regular inspection by Pulmuone Foods partner suppliers to improve their sanitary or safety practices in collaboration with Suppliers are subjected to inspection on their financial health, deadline FSC if there is any room for improvement. observance, quality competitiveness, price competitiveness and business capability on a regular basis(annual) after being selected as partners. If there is any negative social consequence out of the supply contract, the contract is automatically terminated. In March 2011, Pulmuone selected top 13 companies based on its Communication with Partners Pulmuone is convinced only the sustainable growth of partner suppliers can Partner suppliers hold periodic partner meetings, organic food producer be the foundation for shared growth. With this recognition, the company has meetings, QC(Quality Control) meetings where they can make suggestions and built close communication channel tailored to the business characteristics of its report inconveniences, if any, to Pulmuone. Pulmuone also operates an ongoing subsidiaries. Through the channel, Pulmuone recognizes robust performances channel for interactive communication by dispatching the employees in charge of and best practices of the partnership, and expresses its gratitude to partner partnership to the partners. companies on a regular basis. Company name Communication channel Description Social milestones Pulmuone Group level Sourcing portal system(http://sp.pulmuone.com) · Handles complaints or grievances of partner suppliers · Prevents production defects and drives improvement activities Pulmuone Holdings QC meeting · Organized semi-annually · Shares systemic and specialized food safety management practices · Trains quality managers Pulmuone Foods Partner meeting · Held annually · Develops partnership by setting ‘Best Partner’s Day’ in March · Evaluates/awards good partners annually Pulmuone Health & Living Partner meeting · Held semi-annually 49 · Includes farmers supplying food materials for green juice · Provides e-commerce contract training · Offers Pulmuone LOHAS academy sessions Organic food producer meeting · Held every 4 months · Maintains win-win/strategic partnership with organic farmers Pulmuone Waters Franchisee meeting · Held semi-annually · Offers training manual · Introduces advanced management schemes Social Performance _ Community Dedicated organization: PR Dept ‘Love Neighbor Fund’ raised by employees 2010 SR Under the aspirations of ‘contribute to communities’ and ‘ facilitate voluntary Pulmuone executives and employees donate certain portion of their salary to neighbors 46p employee engagement’ through its varied social contribution campaigns and in need every month. The fund raised from their donation is transferred to Korea Food 1) Mecenat support, Pulmuone plans various initiatives optimized for business for the Hungry International to be spent for the underprivileged home and abroad. scope of its subsidiaries/affiliates and identifies new opportunities to fulfill its [Employee fundraising status] Unit : KRW 1,000 corporate social responsibilities. Year 2009 2010 2011 1) Mecenat Supports and sponsorship of a company for culture, art and sports for public benefit under social and humanitarian causes Accumulated 209,121 152,894 140,452 Social milestones Spent 173,433 99,546 85,354 Employee activities for communities Cumulative balance 111,313 164,661 219,759 ‘LOHAS Designer’, employee social contribution corps Pulmuone has established enterprise-wide social contribution corps named ‘LOHAS Fundraising for children suffering from intractable diseases Designer’ for systemic undertakings of employee social campaigns. A total of 40 Pulmuone organizes a fundraising event for the underprivileged instead of a typical volunteering teams have been formed in Pulmuone Holdings, Pulmuone Foods, year-end party in every December. In 2011, Pulmuone employees were dressed up ORGA Whole Foods and Foodmerce. If Pulmuone Health & Living also has LOHAS as Santa Claus to raise six million won for Wish Fund and donated the money to Designer in place during 2012 as is planned, all subsidiaries of Pulmuone come to Korea Make a Wish Foundation for children with intractable diseases. The money have their own volunteering corps within the company. was spent to realize the wish of two children suffering from intractable diseases. 50 ‘LOHAS Designer’, employee social Activities for social contribution contribution corps Social media campaign in partnership with Korea Food for the Hungry International Marking the World Food Day(October 16), Pulmuone waged a fundraising campaign for emergency food assistance through social media. The campaign [Employee volunteering activities] was held at Pulmuone Facebook page(www.facebook.com/pulmuonelove), blog(Secret Story of Pulmuone, http://blog.pulmuone.com) and Twitter account(@ Year 2009 2010 2011 pulmuonelove) simultaneously. About 10 million won was raised to be donated Hours 6,709 7,889 9,852 to Korea Food for the Hungry International and was spent as financial assistance Participants(ppl) 1,491 1,929 2,149 to Malawi children’s vine yard cultivation. ‘Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome’ campaign for babies which have been provided to Korean Dietary Communication Center. It In the second half of 2011, Pulmuone Health & Living carried out a metabolic has also donated products of its Babymeal brand to the Seoul City Single Parent syndrome awareness campaign for the community and ‘Health Guide’ training Family Support Center while opening a lecture on baby meals for single mothers. program for those working for low-income women suffering from metabolic syndrome in partnership with Korea Woman’s Environmental Network. Activities for cultural contribution Pulmuone Kimchi Museum Talent development project Pulmuone has operated Kimchi Museum since 1986 which is located on the second Starting from 2011, ECMD has offered an underground floor of Coex Mall, Samsung-dong, Seoul. The museum exhibits opportunity to experience what it is like traditional tools and utensils to make Kimchi, and displays records and pictures about working at restaurants for the underprivileged Social milestones Kimchi to give a comprehensive glance to history of Kimchi. It opened programs for youth cooking club named ‘Happy Home’1), both kids(‘Exciting V’, ‘Kimchi Kids’, ‘Special Unit for Kimchi’) and adults(‘Come to and run ‘Youth Hopeful Project’ which supports Make Kimchi’) along with various programs to understand the traditional cuisine of scholarship to cooking schools, provides Restaurant tour of students Korea including a theater play(‘Here Comes Kimchi, the Health Fighter’). The museum training at concession shops and hiring interns also hosted 11 sessions of cultural events for multicultural families(‘Multi-Cultures in to develop talents. Korea’, ‘Korea in Multi-Cultures’) to open a channel for intercultural communication. 1) Happy Home A youth shelter operated by Rainbow Green Frog, the youth welfare foundation Website of Pulmuone Kimchi Museum: www.kimchimuseum.co.kr ‘Bravo Your Life’, tour campaign to raise awareness about menopause [Program for multicultural families] Hosted by Korea Foundation for Women and organized by Korea Women’s Hot Line, 51 Program Intent Target Number of Description the awareness campaign on the menopause was carried out by inviting renowned name sessions lecturers to offer seven educational sessions between October and November of 2011 Act Designed to raise Multicultural 6 Traditional theater to 404 middle-aged women in major cities across the country. Pulmuone Health & awareness and families performance Living shouldered cost for the campaign along with gifts for participants. For 2012, the understanding of Tour around the company is planning to provide cultural events as well as educational campaigns. multicultural families museum exhibits on Korean foods Kimchi experience Contract to improve health of infants/kids Open Promote Families and 5 Understanding on On October 28 of 2011, Pulmuone Health & Living signed an agreement to understanding on related groups multi-cultures improve health of infants/kids with Seoul Foundation of Women and Family multi-cultures and interested in Tour around the which includes a campaign for the right weaning diet for babies. Through the spread positive multi-cultures museum exhibits campaign, the company has supported educational materials on the weaning diet perception Kimchi experience C-cubic, the corporate culture team of Pulmuone, organized ‘I am the King Cook for Authentic Wholesome Foods’ with an aim of creating ‘great corporate culture and great workplace’. The mission of the cooking competition was to cook a LOHAS diet based on tofu and vegetables. Seven participating teams came up with delicious foods with their unique recipe that look so tasty watering the mouths of observers. On the sideline of the cooking competition, other interesting events such as an auction were held. The proceeds from the cooking competition and other events were donated to ‘Love Neighbor Fund’. Looking at smiley and happy faces at the corporate-wide competition full of authentic wholesome foods and love for neighbors, you would realize THIS is definitely the place where everyone can enjoy working. A very personal story of Pulmuone 5 Pulmuone Cooking Competition! Can’t Resist the Tasty Smell! Environmental milestones Convinced ‘humans can become healthy only when nature is healthy’, Pulmuone practices ‘green management’ based on its five-principled agenda which encompasses the entire corporate activities from production to distribution. Grow green with ‘green management’ Environmental Performance Green Management Believing ‘humans can become healthy only when nature is healthy’, Pulmuone To augment its activities to offer authentic wholesome foods, Pulmuone has has implemented green management practices to deliver authentic wholesome generated the environmental safety agenda with five principles aligned with the foods which should be considered gifts from nature. Green management that global standards that encompasses from production to distribution process. cares for both human and nature is an act of communication with consumers that can be facilitated by providing authentic wholesome food to consumers. Environmental milestones Environmental safety agenda with 5 principles Direction for phased implementation · Make sustained improvement of performances by monitoring energy/water consumption Sustained improvement of · Better energy efficiency of facilities(need to enhance 4% every year) environmental performance · Research any changes in emission as more products become subjected to carbon footprint calculation · Continue to push ‘No Safety Accident’ campaign and observe safety rules for zero accident Healthy workplace · Reinforce trainings on the safety manual and communicate how to respond to natural disasters · Identify and report on near-miss accidents, and drive sustained improvement by monitoring safety initiatives 54 · Procure more green ingredients and materials when developing products More green products · Develop and expand green packaging · Include carbon emissions management when assessing partners · Streamline production stages by reinventing products and process · Recover and recycle waste heat from production process Green production process · Manage and receive validation from the 3 rd party on greenhouse gas emissions (logistics centers/stores) · Extend green stores and environment-friendly logistics centers · Expand the utilization of renewable energy · Drive green company/food accreditation Better internal/external communication · Expand low-carbon/carbon footprint accreditation · Enhance brand image through sustained PR activities and green campaigns Environmental Performance Trend Category Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Efficiency in using Bean consumption 3.799 3.676 3.733 3.802 4.708 materials* Noodle consumption 5.63 5.98 6.05 5.29 5.29 Green juice consumption 1.279 1.298 1.274 1.413 1.611 Energy 1) Direct energy consumption 10 TOE/product ton -3 44.3 45.5 49.4 50.7 51.9 Indirect energy consumption 10-3 TOE/product ton 56.3 62.9 68.4 71.8 74.2 Water Water consumption ㎥/product ton 16.8 17.8 14.3 13.6 14.1 GHG2) Total CO2 emission 1,000tCO2 /year 54.9 57.8 61.8 66.6 78.4 Environmental milestones CO2 emission from production 1,000tCO2 /year 34.1 34.3 36.4 37.8 38.8 CO2 emission from logistics 1,000tCO2 /year 20.8 22.7 23.9 26.7 31.4 CO2 emission from service 1,000tCO2 /year 0.7 1.5 2.1 8.2 CO2 basic unit in production tCO2/product ton 4.1 4.6 5.2 5.6 5.4 CO2 basic unit in logistics tCO2/KRW 1 mil. 14.7 17.1 19.2 17.9 15.3 CO2 basic unit in service tCO2/KRW 1 mil. 28.2 39.1 31.3 22.1 Water management3) Water discharge ㎥/product ton 6.8 6.7 6.9 5.7 6.2 Waste 4) Amount Ton/product ton 0.114 0.104 0.087 0.041 0.054 55 How to process Recycling % 99 98 98 97 99 Landfill % 1 1 1 3 1 Incineration % 1 1 1 0 0 Cost for environment investment & management KRW 100 mil. 32.00 57.19 56.86 35.18 50.78 * The consumption efficiency unit : semi-finished production(ton)/materials input(ton) in dimensionless unit 1) Energy Production performance(Pulmuone Health & Living, Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Waters, Pulmuone Farm, SinSeon Natto) 2) GHG Logistics(Exofresh, Foodmerce center in Yangji), Service(LOHAS Academy, ECMD, ORGA Whole Foods), Production(Pulmuone Health & Living, Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Waters, Pulmuone Farm, SinSeon Natto) 3) Water management Performance in production(Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living, SinSeon Natto, Pulmuone Waters, Pulmuone Farm) 4) Waste Performance in production(Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living, SinSeon Natto, Pulmuone Waters, Pulmuone Farm) Initiatives to Lessen Environment Footprint Product Production R&D Procurement Logistics Schools&Restaurants Green management Eco-protection Final Consumption Environmental milestones Processing Efforts to reduce environment impact of procurement • To produce bean sprouts, for example, Pulmuone Pulmuone never uses GMO food and radiated food materials, and strictly controls detrimental factors uses Pungsan beans produced from Cheju island which such as residual pesticide or heavy metal. These are the part of efforts to produce healthy products and go through the residual pesticide detection test twice. eliminate any factors that might cause consumer anxiety. Pulmuone strictly controls pesticide residues with its nopesticide cultivation system. [Overarching principles for materials procurement] Item Domestic legal standards Pulmuone standards Description • ORGA Whole Foods, meanwhile, uses environment56 Pesticide · Organic foods: 1/10 ‘No detection’ principle · Major agricultural products friendly vegetables, fruits and grains along with residues of the legal limit for organic foods (soybean, cabbage, etc) environment-friendly agricultural and livestock goods · Periodic monitoring on residual lements with no L-sodium glutamate, synthetic artificial dyes or Heavy metal · Total heavy metal · Analysis & control · Increase of products under control preservatives. It also uses non-GMO materials for all of its (processed foods) of individual (including produce and soil) domestic/imported agricultural products and processed elements(arsenic/ · Metal detectors installed to inspect foods. lead/cadmium) all products GMO · Explicit display of · No GMO allowed · Place of origin confirmed for every • Pulmuone Green Juice uses clean and safe materials that information when it (3% ceiling, allowed primary and secondary materials have been certified as organic produce and satisfied the exceeds the legal limit only when there is · Sample examination per evaluation criteria for the place of origin/safety. of 3% no GMO protein) kg of imported produce Initiatives for product development [Water supply for production] Low-carbon organic tofu for fried foods Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total consumption(㎥) 2,374,087 2,798,334 2,696,525 2,876,492 2,975,486 In 2011, Pulmuone’s organic tofu for fried foods was certified as low-carbon products for the first time in Korea. Carbon footprint labeling shows GHG Groundwater(%) 30 23 26 26 23 emissions throughout the product lifecycle from production to distribution, usage Water supply from 70 77 74 74 77 and disposal on the product label. It is only given to products certified for its waterworks(%) carbon emissions and meet the criteria for low-carbon products. To cut down Geum river(㎥) 1,962,317 2,360,073 2,223,104 2,348,091 2,504,406 carbon emissions, Pulmuone reuses indirect cooling water whose temperature Eumsung tofu, Eumsung has gone up during the production of organic tofu to clean facilities, and the vegetable, Eumsung fresh Environmental milestones residual heat from wastewater is used to heat process water. In addition, it has noodle, Doan health functional introduced eight low-carbon production practices such as reducing the weight food, Doan green juice, of packaging containers and streamlining its six-stage process to four stages by bottled water, SinSeon Natto modifying design of packaging film. Nakdong river(㎥) 166,193 186,761 176,551 173,445 166,018 Uiryeong tofu Initiatives for production Han river(㎥) 245,577 251,500 296,870 354,956 305,062 Chuncheon tofu, ice Less water consumption Pulmuone has implemented socially responsible practices for water usage 57 and discharge as it consumes heavy amount of water for materials cleaning, [Basic unit of production water] ㎥/Product ton production, and post-production cleaning of facilities. Its initiatives for responsible 20.0 operation include followings: 17.8 • Drive innovative campaigns to reduce consumption of water, 18.0 16.8 the irreplaceable resource 16.0 • Maintain the pollution level of discharged wastewater to less than 14.3 14.1 1/2 of the legal limit 14.0 13.6 • Apply stricter standards to wastewater directly flowing into river so that it can be used for agriculture 12.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Less water consumption for sterilization and cooling [Eco-friendly technologies applied to the Eumsung logistics center] The sterilization and cooling facilities for minced garlic were replaced with Low-temperature automation center in Eumsung automatic equipment. The replacement has reduced quality variance thanks to Has the largest low-temperature automation facilities, better management of water consumption, temperature and time. The control the first logistics center accredited as eco-friendly architecture for microbes has also improved. Subsequently, the amount of water needed to produce 1.5 tons of minced garlic has decreased from 15~17 tons to just three Eco-conveyor tons. Reduces the annual CO 2 emissions by 70 tons by employing direct current electricity Carbon emissions reduction with larger transport vehicles Temperature management system Pulmuone leads efforts for carbon emissions reduction by using larger Environmental milestones Maintains the temperature lower than 2℃ for efficient transport vehicles instead of smaller ones for transportation between logistics management of product quality and facilities hubs. This practice enhances transport efficiency as it increases the average transport volume. For example, when it shifted from two 5-ton vehicles(fuel Rainwater recycling efficiency: 4.25L/km) to one trailer(fuel efficiency: 2.5L/km), the monthly light Recycles rainwater for landscaping or cleaning oil consumption decreased by 1,100L. At present, Pulmuone is introducing two larger vehicles which consume 0.8% less fuel expense per month, contributing to Ammonia freezer lower carbon emissions. Prevents the ozone depletion and global warming by using eco-friendly refrigerant(CO₂) 58 Efforts in logistics Wind/solar-powered street lamps Eco-friendly logistics center Street lamps based on wind power and solar energy The Eumsung logistics center of Exofresh Logistics was designed and constructed with green technologies such as reducing energy load, improving energy efficiency, Cold-storage equipment recycling resources, and lessening environmental impact Reduces carbon fuel consumption and operation hours with the objectives of energy saving and environment of freezers by using cold-storage equipment for trucks preservation. Recognized for thoughtful construction engineering, it has become the first logistics center in Reusable box Reduces styrofoam usage with reusable boxes that can be Korea that was accredited as the eco-friendly structure. recovered after delivery Eco-friendly building certificate(class of excellence) Efforts in product usage Packaging recycling ORGA Whole Foods has minimized packaging waste by using eco-boxes which can Less packaging materials be collected right after delivery along with ice boxes and ice gel, and by recycling Lighter water bottle Pulmuone has minimized the weight of preform used for packaging materials in good shape. In 2011 alone, the company recycled as much as water bottles when producing PET products, and is planning to undertake a project 35% of 32,923 packaging boxes. The recycling campaign was proactively promoted in 2012 to reduce the weight of a bottle cap. as green campaign for the environment, boosting the customer engagement in the Weight of 0.5L bottle Unit: g Weight of 2.0L bottle Unit: g LOHAS programs. 16 16 39 39 [Eco-box usage after recovering packaging styrofoam] 15 15 38 Environmental milestones 37 37 14 13.5 36 36.2 13 35 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Lighter tofu case Lighter bottle for Thinner films No printing on The weight of I ’m Real Pulmuone uses 22% the cap of Cup Ice 500 points for each eco-box 200 points for each styrofoam box a tofu case was The weight of thinner film for the The product name, 59 reduced by 7% 190ml ‘I’m Real’ traditional soft bean Cup Ice, which from 11.3g to bottle was also curd condiment used to be printed 10.5g. At the first reduced by 4% packaging, and on both the cap stage, the lighter from 24.5g to 17% thinner and the case is case was used only 23.5g. polyethylene film for now only on the in one product, but its noodle products. case to shorten the its usage will be production process. expanded in 2012. Efforts in final process Eumsung fresh noodle plant. PCBs in transformer oil exceeded the legal limit(500m) to be categorized as hazardous waste in the analysis. However, Less impact from wastes as there is no proper agency to handle waste from oil transformers in Korea, In September 2010, Pulmuone devised a plan to recycle green juice byproducts Pulmuone reports details of its usage of oil transformers to relevant public from the Doan green juice plant, and organic wastes from the spent mushroom administrative offices. The oil transformers will be disposed of by proper substrate of Saenggeuk Farm as fertilizers to improve the low soil fertility of hazardous waste treatment agencies when they reach their end of life. LOHAS Academy. It registered itself as industrial waste recycling facility on March 25, 2011, to complete preparation, and collected 350 tons of organic subsidiary Efforts in school meal/restaurant business materials to produce 300 tons of organic composts from April to December in 2011, which were used to improve soil fertility of about 43,000㎡ of the soil in Eco-friendly & safe resting lounge Environmental milestones LOHAS Academy. The total facility investment amounted to KRW 25 million. The ECMD has converted the Gapyeong resting lounge into a green and safe lounge financial value of organic composts produced in 2011 was 46 million won, and measuring up to the global standards. It has also installed an automatic chlorine when the materials transport and other related costs are excluded, it has the dispenser in the water pipes for the 400-ton reservoir to improve quality of economic benefit of 28 million won. potable water for customers. Also, kerosene oil used for heating and hot water 1) has been replaced with Hi-sense (by-product oil no.1) for greener operation. Eco e-story In addition, it installed a filtering membrane in settling tanks to improve its Pulmuone introduced ECMDPRO program in July 2011 in order to spread Ecowastewater treatment and parking lot facilities in collaboration with Seoul e-Story for eco-friendly diet and activities which had been initiated in 2010. Chuncheon Highway, the operator of the highway linking Chuncheon with Seoul. ECMDPRO is a computerized system managed by the headquarters to provide 1) Hi-sense By-product oil rather than extracted from underground reserve. It is based on naphtha 60 and condensate, produced by purifying crude oil. eco-friendly diet and monitor registration of the residual food amount. In 2011, the company drove the Eco e-Story campaign through ECMDPRO which included 359(95.9%) worksites providing eco-friendly diet and 357(95.3%) worksites registering their food residue amount on the database out of the entire 374 worksites. In 2012, the computerized database on food residues will be leveraged further to drive the campaign sustainably and serve as a valuable tool for the company to lead eco-friendly efforts of the food service industry. Hazardous materials management For greener and safer operation, Pulmuone analyzed PCBs(Polychlorinated Biphenyls) content in transformer oil as it uses oil-type transformers in the External activities for green management Efforts to preserve ecosystem diversity Pulmuone’s LOHAS Academy is surrounded by breathtaking nature including the Low Carbon Green Growth Expo nearby sokri Mountain National Park. It has high biodiversity such as luscious Pulmuone opened its own exhibition booth at Low Carbon Green Growth Expo forest, farmland, wetland, scree and others. In 2011, it hosted 3,705 Pulmuone in Coex from October 12 to 15, 2011, in order to raise consumer awareness about employees and business partners for a program to experience LOHAS lifestyle the company’s five types of activities to provide authentic wholesome foods. where all of the participants recognized the importance of nature and pledged to practice LOHAS lifestyle. Pulmuone has also built artificial wetland at all of its worksites to purify wastewater before it is discharged to river and stream. After wetland was made for better water quality, migrant birds that had not been in sight started to inhabit near to wetland, proving once again wetland made by Environmental milestones Pulmuone is contributing to biodiversity. 1 2 61 Pulmuone booth at Low Carbon Green Growth Expo Pulmuone's five types of activities Receive from nature Reduce GHG for a brighter future 3 4 Grown by nature Use eco-friendly ingredients given by nature Hold nature Make healthy and safe food in its most natural state by reducing food processing Protect nature Preserve nature in every step of the way starting from production to logistics and distribution for a healthier earth 1. Program to experience LOHAS lifestyle Speak nature Ensure to provide information about authentic wholesome 2. Program to experience LOHAS lifestyle foods as it is as important as delivering them 3. Doan plant: JaDamYeon(a pond that holds nature) 4. Eumsung fresh noodle plant: Crystal Water Garden that looks so much like Pulmuone Third Party’s Assurance Report 2) BEST Guideline² To the Management of the Pulmuone 2011 3) Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines³ Sustainability Report Upon request of Pulmuone, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies as a ‘ third party assurance provider’(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Assurance Provider’) presents the following third party ’s assurance report on the ‘Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2011(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Report’)’ Third Party’s Assurance Report Accountability and Objective Pulmuone is held accountable for all information and claims contained in the Report including sustainability management goal setting, performance management, data collection and report preparation. The Assurance Provider has no relations with Pulmuone regarding any of its for-profit operations and activities. In addition, the Assurance Provider has carried out its assurance 1. AA1000 AS(Assurance Standard) is a sustainability reporting standard developed by Accountability in its pursuit to promote overall organizational performance and accountability by improving the process with independence and autonomy as it was not involved in the quality of social and ethical accounting. As a U. K. based not-for-profit organization focusing on 62 preparation of the Report except for offering comments in the process. corporate social responsibility and business ethics, Accountability first developed AA1000AS in 1999 and amended the standards in 2008 for application in 2010. Independence 2. BEST Guideline or BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline is a guideline for the preparation The objective of this assurance report is to check whether the Report is free of and assurance of sustainability reporting and offers five levels of reporting quality assessment. It was jointly developed by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy(MKE), the Institute for Industrial material misstatement or bias and whether the data collection systems used Policy Studies(IPS), and the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry(KCCI) in the Business are robust, and to offer advice on improving the quality of the Report through Ethics Sustainability Management for Top Performers(BEST) forum in their endeavor to promote identifying sustainable management issues and reviewing its reporting process. sustainability reporting among local companies. 3. The Global Reporting Initiative(GRI), which was jointly convened by the Coalition for Criteria for Assurance Environmentally Responsible Economies(CERES) and the UNEP in 1997, first released its G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines in October 2006. The G3.1 Guidelines, which is an update and The Assurance Provider assessed the Report against the following guidelines: completion of the G3, was published in March 2011, featuring broader guidance on how to report 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008)¹ on human rights, gender, and local community issues. G4, the fourth generation of Guidelines, is due to be launched in 2013. Type and Level of Assurance Reviewing the Pulmuone’s response system for material issues The Assurance Provider conducted assurance process for the Report in Conducting interviews with managers and staffs responsible for dimension-specific accordance with Type 1 and Moderate Level of AA1000AS(2008). performance Completing on-site review focusing on the Seoul office on February 15, 16, and The Assurance Provider evaluated the reliability of the data compiled in the Report for February 20, 2012 Type 1 assurance, and assessed publicly disclosed information, reporting system and Evaluating the Report for the extent of adherence to the GRI/BEST Guidelines performance management process based on the three core principles of AA1000AS(2008), namely Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. However, this assurance engagement Limitations does not provide the evaluation of the credibility of the offered data. A review of the accuracy and reliability of data and interviews with persons in charge The Assurance Provider pursued moderate level of assurance where sufficient evidence of data collection and performance-related information at management levels Third Party’s Assurance Report has been obtained and limited sampling has been conducted at each performance Verifying the data and inquiries into each functional manager and information sector to support its assurance report such that the risk of its conclusion being in error collection manager is reduced but not reduced to very low or not zero. On-site validation focused on the Seoul office Assurance engagement based on data and publicly available information only during Scope and Methodology the current reporting period The Assurance Provider carried out the following activities in order to (1) Evaluation of the reliability of the performance data being excluded review the extent to which The Report applies the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness and (2) assess the Report’s application level of Conclusions 63 the GRI/BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The Assurance Provider did not find the Report to contain any material misstatements or bias on the basis of the scope, methodology and criteria Evaluating the sources of publicly disclosed information and internal parties involved described above. All material findings of the Assurance Provider are provided Verifying the performance data collection systems and processes herein, and detailed findings and follow-up recommendations have been Ensuring the financial data in the Report and Pulmuone’s audited financial reports submitted to the management of Pulmuone. correspond Reviewing media reports related to Pulmuone and the original source of the information in The Report Conducting data sampling and analysis of the stakeholder’s survey result Conducting a materiality test of company policy, peer review, media search, stakeholder’s opinion survey [Inclusivity] [Materiality] Are procedures for stakeholder strategy-setting and Does the Report contain information of the highest material engagement adequate at Pulmuone? importance to Pulmuone stakeholders across the economic, The Auditor found Pulmuone to appreciate the importance of stakeholder social, and environmental dimensions? engagement in achieving its sustainability management goals, and noted It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude issues of continuous efforts by the Company to manage various existing processes for material importance to the stakeholders of Pulmuone. We verified efforts by stakeholder engagement on a sustainable basis. The Auditor confirmed efforts the Company to identify and report on issues of material internal and external to collect diverse views from its stakeholders by utilizing regular channels of stakeholder interest through a systematic materiality assessment process communication specific to each of the respective stakeholder groups including covering internal company policies, stakeholder surveys, peer benchmarking, Third Party’s Assurance Report executives and employees, shareholders, customers, business partners, and media research etc. Also, through stakeholder surveys, the Company assessed the local community. Pulmuone has encouraged stakeholder participation by priority issues for each of the stakeholder groups to provide focused reporting employing an adequate and efficient methodology and process to identify and on key stakeholder-specific issues of the greatest material interest. The visibly respond to issues of material interest to both its internal and external following points were found to be particularly commendable. stakeholders. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. The Report provides a detailed description of the process for identifying material issues Continuous use of various engagement platforms such as VOC and VOE as part on and a detailed account of the materiality assessment findings ongoing efforts to collect in-depth stakeholder feedback to later reflect in its business The Report provides an analysis of key materiality testing findings structured by theme management activities. and stakeholder group making it easier to understand for readers 64 A strong commitment to stakeholder communication primarily via the main CCM(Customer Complaint Management) program etc. to troubleshoot and provide an Going forward, the Auditor suggests disclosing the criteria applied by immediate response to all customer complaints and/or damages. the Company in segmenting the materiality assessment findings, while providing more detailed coverage on certain issues viewed to be of the highest Going forward, however, the Auditor suggests making an extra effort to better material interest in terms of implications to stakeholders and corporate risk share the ideas produced through stakeholder engagement throughout the management. Moreover, the Company is encouraged to keep track of all company to make them more actionable during execution. Also, based on this materiality findings to assess and manage any changes in trends from a timecompany-wide sharing of engagement outcomes, Pulmuone is encouraged to be series point of view. more proactive in running the various decision-making processes linked to the Company’s overall sustainability management strategy, and to also report upon any results from the broader linkage. [Responsiveness] [GRI Application Levels] Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder The Assurance Provider found the Report to apply to GRI G3.1 Reporting expectations and areas of concern? Framework at the level of A+. The GRI Application Level is assessed by the following table. The Auditor confirmed that Pulmuone has been working to provide an adequate and proactive response to stakeholder requirements and issues of [BEST Fulfillment Levels] interest by communicating with its stakeholder through various channels. The Assurance Provider found the Report to fulfill 99.6% of the reporting Pulmuone has demonstrated its commitment to be responsive to stakeholder requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 5 Report(from among Level 1~5). expectations and demands by putting in place a robust platform for stakeholder communication. The following points were found to be particularly [Trend of the Pulmuone Sustainability Management Report Fulfillment] Third Party’s Assurance Report commendable. *Assurance findings were converted uniformly into fulfillment ratios as measured against Level 1 through 5 requirements The Report provides an account of certain negative issues as well as the Company’s commitment and plans to find a solution, so that stakeholders can make good Reporting Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 informed decisions regarding the sustainability performance of Pulmuone Publications 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th The Company carried out expert interviews to collect more in-depth comments from Level Level3 Level4 Level4 Level4 Level5 Level5 stakeholders while explaining Pulmuone’s position and planned response as feedback Fulfillment 81.3% 96.4% 98.0% 99.1% 99.5% 99.6% 65 Going forward, the Auditor suggests presenting the Company ’s response and any improvements regarding stakeholder communication findings and comments in a more systematic way. Also, since its existing channels of stakeholder engagement are rather generic, the Company is advised to develop additional platforms such as stakeholder councils or panels that can encourage greater participation from stakeholders on issues of high interest to help Pulmuone provide a more proactive response. Recommendations Eligibility of IPS as an Assurance Provider The Auditor found the 2011 Sustainability Report by Pulmuone commendable Established in 1993, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies(IPS) has in the following respects. The Report (1) provides strong coverage of the accumulated broad expertise in the areas of ethics management, corporate Company ’s system for sustainability management, including the overall social responsibility and sustainable management since 2002, and serves as strategy, responsible organization, and future plans etc.; (2) presents a a third party assurance provider for the sustainability reports published by breakdown of the DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) by subsidiary local companies. IPS has conducted the assurance engagement upon request so that stakeholders can have a more systematic understanding of the key of Pulmuone, and assembled a team of five assurance practitioners who are performance results and future plans specific to each of the subsidiaries; and professors at Korea’s top universities or professionals with accreditation and (3) provides results from interviews with experts in various fields relevant extensive experience in sustainability management after majoring in business to sustainability management along with a show of commitment from the management, accounting or environmental science. Third Party’s Assurance Report Company to reflect the results in future management activities. In the interest of improved future reports, the Auditor recommends the following: Establish a roadmap and company-wide strategy for sustainability management based on Pulmuone’s unique concept of sustainability management March 07, 2012 Develop a set of indicators to measure sustainability management results as well as an accompanying management system Jae-eun Kim 66 Develop a reporting strategy to focus coverage on key issues found to be of material President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies interest via materiality testing Broaden the scope of reported performance results by reporting on the sustainability management initiatives of supplier companies Provide more case studies of companies that have delivered results after reflecting stakeholder engagement findings in their strategies Pulmuone is encouraged to build a more systemic and improved framework for sustainability management and reporting based on the recommendations included in this assurance statement as well as the separate written recommendation forwarded to management.
