2010 Sustainability Report The wire that binds us together 2010 SustainaBility Report Upper Management Composition as at December 31, 2010 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Armando Casado de Araújo (Chairman) Carlos Nadalutti Filho (Chief Executive Officer) Carlos Augusto Vidotto Cesar Ribeiro Zani (System Operation and Energy Commercialization Officer) Carlos Nadalutti Filho Luís Fernando Paroli Santos (Corporate Management Officer) Francisco Romário Wojcicki Luiz Henrique Hamann (Financial Officer) Luiz Paulo Fernandez Conde Márcio Antônio Arantes Porto (Construction Officer) Vladimir Muskatirovic Mário Márcio Rogar (Engineering Officer) SUPERVISORY BOARD Effective Members Antônio de Pádua Ferreira Passos (Chairman) Marisete Fátima Dadald Pereira Sonia Regina Jung Substitute Members João Vicente Amato Torres Israel da Silva Ronaldo Sérgio Monteiro Lourenço Water, a matter of respect for the collectivity For centuries, water was deemed a non-extinguishable natural resource. Recently though, it became clear that it is a finite and vulnerable resource. The amount of water available has been the same ever since it stabilized, and it cannot be manufactured. That is why we must attempt to keep it not only available, but also proper for consumption. Such awareness has gained widespread value, especially after the 1992 United Nations Conference on the Environment (Rio 92), during which the idea of sustainable development matured. In 2012, Brazil will host the Rio+20 Conference, where water is an agenda issue. The United Nations Environment Program Report (PNUMA), a Focus on Water Quality Solutions (2010), draws the attention to an alarming data: almost one billion people all over the world do not have access to drinking water. This document also stresses the fact that, according to the United Nations Organization (UNO), approximately 4 thousand children under age 5 die due to diseases such as diarrhea and cholera, which may have their transmission associated to the quality of water. Said data made the UNO declare in 2010 the access to water a Human Right. Although Brazil has around 12% of the whole drinking water available on the planet, it already faces problems that may jeopardize this valuable resource. Water is distributed unevenly in Brazil: the region with the largest population density, the southeast, has access to only 6% of the water available in Brazil. The staggering increase in sector demands related to disorderly agricultural, industrial and urban expansion is aggravated by the degradation of water quality due to inadequate waste and affluent treatment. Aware of the importance of water quality for power generation and life as a whole, FURNAS is continuously investing in projects and policies addressing the quality of the country´s water resources. Most of these initiatives are included herein, the 2010 Sustainability Report – The Wire that Binds Us Together. Message from the CEO Power generation and transmission on sustainable grounds is a challenge FURNAS faces on and on, being not only a commitment that is renewed each year to meet the country´s development needs, but also the basis for the development of the Company it intends to be in the coming decades. The year of 2010 was framed by important achievements we wish to share with our partners, collaborators, and all stakeholders. Four new plants, built under Specific Purpose Entities, became fully operational: Baguari, Foz do Chapecó, Serra do Facão and Retiro Baixo, and the transmission lines Furnas-Pimenta II, also built under a Specific Purpose Entity, and Macaé-Campos III were energized. The right to build and operate Teles Pires Hydroelectric Power Plant, acquired in an auction together with private investors, will ultimately widen our activities in the Amazon region, which began with Santo Antônio Power Plant. Power generation in the Amazon, a region that still relies strongly on thermal units running on diesel, should contribute to reduce green house gases emissions. Infrastructure undertakings in northern Brazil undoubtedly strengthen the presence of the State and the national sovereignty. Conversely, building large undertakings in the region demands an even greater care for the environment, traditional populations, and local economic activities. FURNAS has henceforth sought to build partnerships, to strengthen dialogue with local institutions and communities, and to look for technical solutions that are environmentally friendly. FURNAS is building, together with private investors, three wind parks, and also connecting biomass plants and small hydro plants to the National Interconnected System, which adds to the Company´s prospects of operating alternative energy sources. Within Eletrobras Transformation Plan, the CEOs of all sister companies have stressed their commitment with sustainability by agreeing on Furnas Pact, which outlines improvement targets toward economic, financial, social, and environmental performance. FURNAS adhered to Women’s Empowerment Principles, an initiative of the United Nations Global Compact and the United Nations Development Fund for Women and the Corporate Commitment to Fight Sexual Abuse of Children and Teenagers, reinforcing the Company’s policy to transform the UNO´s Principles of the Global Compact, of which it has been a signatory since 2003, into consistent practices. I am certain that this report will provide a further insight into how FURNAS works to supply the necessary infrastructure for the development of Brazil on sustainable grounds, i.e., with economic feasibility, respect for the environment, and social inclusion. To achieve this, the Company counts on a team of collaborators with an outstanding technical profile, who are highly committed to a project of social transformation, and who are willing to bequeath a legacy of large undertakings and a sound environment to future generations. Flavio Decat de Moura CEO On this Report FURNAS Social Balance was first issued in 1998 and contemplated around 45% of those issues part of the model made by the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analysis (Ibase). In the 2004 Social Balance that figure already corresponded to 90%. It also included some indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), besides a reading guide. In 2007, the Social Balance, as it was denominated by then, was more consistently aligned with GRI directives. FURNAS Sustainability Report – The Wire that Binds Us Together, in 2010 version, introduces a main innovation if compared to previous years, which is the correlation of the indicators laid down by ISO 26.000, issued in November 2010, with the several initiatives described in the referred document. As practiced in the previous years, the directives and indicators listed by the GRI Electric Utility Sector Handbook and those performance indicators part of the Annual Report and Sustainability Report Writing Guide of the Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency (ANEEL). Another innovative aspect of this publication is the data produced by the first poll with stakeholders of FURNAS interest, and their views concerning sustainability on issues relevant to them. The poll was conducted with shareholders/investors, communities, clients, employees, outsourced personnel, suppliers, government, and others. The result of this poll – and of future ones – is obviously an important tool for the elaboration of future Sustainability Reports as a way to improve the dialogue between the Company and its public of interest. This Report seeks to disclose in a fair and transparent way FURNAS economic, financial, social, and environmental performance, and issues such as Ethics and Governance, IT, and Social and Environmental Performance. Since FURNAS adhesion to the United Nations Global Compact and to its principles, in the year of 2003, Sustainability Reports have been issued as communication on progress reports, and may be found on the internet (www.pactoglobal.org.br). In order to avoid duplicity, reference is made to 2010 Annual Report whenever details on the Company´s core activities, namely energy generation, transmission and commercialization, are made necessary. Appendices containing FURNAS corporate policies, the tables requested by ANEEL, GRI´s and ISO 26.000 indicators and Ibase´s model for the Sustainability Report are also found. The data for this Report was collected with the fundamental collaboration of FURNAS Corporate Sustainability Committee members. Besides releasing this Report in printed and digital forms, with card-drives, greater public access may be made on FURNAS homepage (www.furnas.com.br), while collaborators access may be done on the Company´s intranet. Summary ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS AND CONCEPTS 12 APPENDICES 116 1. Policies A2 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 19 1.1. Social Responsibility Policy A2 1.2. Environmental Policy A3 1.3. Environmental Education Policy A4 ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE 23 1.4. Forest Resources Policy A5 1.5. Water Resources Policy A6 1.6. Waste Management Policy A6 TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION 37 1.7. Eletrobras System Sustainability Policy A7 2. Corporate governance A9 SOCIETY AND COMMUNITY 45 3. Research and technological and scientific development indicators A10 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 69 4. Social and sector indicators A11 4.1. Internal social and sector indicators A11 GRI TABLE AND IBASE 2010 SOCIAL BALANCE 91 4.2. External social and sector indicators A22 5. Environmental indicators A26 6. Indicators of operational performance and productivity A39 7. Electric Sector Indicators A43 Acronyms, ABBreviations CEO CEP Chief Executive Oﬃcer Public Ethics Commission and Concepts CERHI CERJ Water Resource State Council Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro CIEN Companhia de Interconexão Energética CFURH Royalties for the Use of Water Resources ABNT Brazilian Association of Technical Standards CMDCA Municipal Council for the Rights of Children and Teenagers ACL Free Negotiation Environment COERGO Ergonomic Study Group ACR Regular Negotiation Environment Conab National Supply Company ACT Collective Bargaining Labor Agreement COPASA Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais ADR American Depositary Receipts COPPE Alberto Luiz Coimbra Institute Graduate School and Research in Engineering AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome COPPETEC COPETEC Foundation Alago Association of the Municipalities bordering Furnas Reservoir CPF Social Security Number/Tax Roll ALCOA Alcoa Alumínio S.A. CPFL Companhia Paulista de Força e Luz Ampla Ampla Energia e Serviços S.A. CRA Environmental Resource Center ANA National Water Agency CRAS Centro de Referência da Assistência Social ANEEL Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency CUT Unified Workers´Central ANP National Agency of Petroleum APAE Association of Parents of Children with Special Needs DAEE/SP Department of Water & Electric Utility in the State of São Paulo APM Manso Manso Multiple Usage DF Federal District ASEF FURNAS Employee Association DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index Avape The Association for Valuing Persons with Disabilities DME DME Energética Ltda. DNPM National Department of Mineral Production BNDES Brazilian Development Bank BNEF Bloomberg New Energy Finance EDP Brasil EDP Energias do Brasil BOVESPA São Paulo Stock Exchange EIA Environmental Impact Study BID Inter American Development Bank Enersus Sustainable Energy of Brazil EPE Energy Research Company CCEE Electric Energy Trading Chamber ERP Enterprise Resource Planning CEEE Companhia Estadual de Geração e Transmissão de Energia Elétrica ES Espírito Santo State CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CEBDS Brazilian Corporate Council for Sustainable Development FAEPE Foundation for the Support of Education and Research CEIVAP Comitê de Integração da Bacia Hidrográfica do Rio Paraíba do Sul FEEAM Environmental Engineering Foundation CEM Electromagnetic Field FGTS Severance Indemnity Fund for Employees Cemig Companhia Energética de Minas Gerais FIA Fund for Children and Adolescents Fiocruz Oswaldo Cruz Foundation IT Information Technology Fiotec Foundation for Scientific and Technological Development in Health FNDCT National Foundation for Science and Technology Development LER Reserve Energy Auction FNQ National Quality Foundation LT Transmission Line FRG Real Grandeza Foundation FUNAI National Indian Foundation MAB Movement of Dam Aﬀected People FURNASNet Company´s Intranet MG State of Minas Gerais MMA Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon GD3 Furnas Reservoir Hydrographic Basin Committee MME Ministry of Mines and Energy GD7 Grande river Aﬄuents Hydrographic Basin Committee MT State of Mato Grosso GE Special Group on Risk Management MTE Ministry of Labor GEE Greenhouse gases MW Megawatt = 106 watts (active power) GESAC Digital Inclusion Program of the Telecommunication Ministry GG Gender Group Naturatins Tocantins Nature Institute GHG Greenhouse Gas Protocol NBR Brazilian Standard GRI Global Reporting Initiative GO Goiás State ODM Millennium Development Goals GT Work Group ONS National Electricity System Operator GTESE Ethics Work Group of the Eletrobras System ONU United Nations Organization IAP Paraná State Institute for the Environment PAC Growth Acceleration Program Ibama Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Natural Renewable Resources PAD Annual Development Plan Ibase Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analysis PAE Emergency Plan IBDD Brazilian Institute for the Rights of the Disabled Person PAE Corporate Strategic Planning ICMBio Chico Mendes Institute for Biodiversity PAPC Annual Plan for Flood Control IEMA The State Environmental and Water Resources Institute PCB Polychlorinated Biphenyls IF/SP São Paulo Forest Institute PCR Career and Remuneration Plan IGAM Water Management Institute of Minas Gerais State PDI Individual Development Plan Inea State Institute for the Environment PDGR Corporate Risk Management Master Plan Ines National Institute for the Education of the Hearing Impaired PEA Environmental Education Program INPI National Institute of Industrial Property P&D R&D – Research and Development INSS National Institute of Social Security PINE New Employee Integration Program INTESA Integração Transmissora de Energia S.A. PLpT Light for Everybody Program ISE Sustainabilty Index PNMC National Policy on Climate Change ISO International Organization for Standardization PNUMA United Nations Environment Program PRD Proposta de Resolução de Diretoria SIN National Interconnected System PROCEL National Electricity Conservation Program SIPAT Internal Week of Workplace Accident Prevention Procon Ar Self Control Program of Atmospheric Emissions SISSMA Internal Week of Health, Safety and Environment Week Prodeem Program for Energy Development of States and Municipalities SMLQA Limnologic Monitoring and Water Control System PROMAN Produtores Energéticos de Manso S.A. SOX Sarbanes-Oxley Law PR State of Paraná SP State of São Paulo Prove Rio de Janeiro State Vegetable Oil Re-utilization Program SPE Specific Purpose Entity PTSE Eletrobras System Transformation Plan SPED Public System of Digital Bookkeeping PUC-MG State of Minas Gerais Catholic University SVMA/SP State of São Paulo Secretary for the Environment PUC-RJ State of Rio de Janeiro Catholic University TPP Thermal Power Plant ReLuz National Program for Eﬃcient Public Illumination RIMA Environmental Impact Report UF Federation State RJ State of Rio de Janeiro UFG State of Goiás Federal University RO State of Rondônia UFLA Lavras Federal University RSE Corporate Social Responsibility UFMG State of Minas Gerais Federal University UFRGS State of Rio Grande do Sul Federal University SAGE Open Source Energy Management UFRJ State of Rio de Janeiro Federal University SAIGEE Greenhouse Gases Inventory Support System UFSC State of Santa Catarina Federal University Sala Environmental Follow-up Licensing System UGT Workers Union SC State of Santa Catarina UHE Hydroelectric Power Plant – HPP SE Substation UICN International Union for the Nature Conservancy Sebrae Brazilian Service of Support for Micro and Small Business UnB University of Brasília SEC Securities and Exchange Commission UNIFEM United Nations Development Fund for Women Sefac Serra do Facão Energia S.A. UNIRIO State of Rio de Janeiro Federal University SEMA State Environmental Department USP University of the State of São Paulo SEMAD Department of Environment and Sustainable Development of the State of Minas UTE Thermal Power Plant – TPP Gerais SEMARH Secretariat of Environment and Water Resources SEMESA Serra da Mesa Energia S.A. Semma Municipality of Macaé Secretary of Environment Senai National Service of Industrial Learning SESC Social Service of Commerce Serla State Superintendent Foundation for Rivers and Lakes SGA Environmental Management System Who We Are and what We Do 19 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 WHO WE arE anD WHaT WE DO Sustainability achieved in a way that combines dialogue, partnership and development. Among the several targets pursued by the Federal Government, “streamlining environmental protection, while decreasing deforestation and triggering the world’s cleanest electric energy matrix, keeping Brazil well ahead of the competition as a bio-fuel producer and developing our hydropower potential” is foremost. In this sense, FURNAS, responsible for approximately 40% of the energy generated in Brazil in 2010, invested over R$ 1.2 billion, consolidated construction activities and signed contracts necessary to meet the growth demands of the power industry sector. This is done aligning development and those policies that safeguard a balanced environment. FURNAS brought into operation three new hydroelectric power plants – Retiro Baixo, Serra do Facão and Foz do Chapecó – in 2010, and now runs 15 hydroelectric power plants, eight of which are wholly owned, two are partnerhips with private investors, five are under Specific Purpose Entities (SPE), and two thermal units. The Company’s transmission system relies on approximately 20 thousand kilometers worth of wholly owned transmission lines and 51 substations, 44 of which are wholly owned, two are partnerships with private investors and five are under SPE’s. Such structure enables FURNAS to operate in four of the five regions that comprise Brazil, namely the south, southeast, north and central regions, i.e., ten states and the Federal District. Also in 2010, FURNAS became a member of the Program against Sexual Exploitation of Children and Teenagers, sponsored by the Federal Government, and adhered to the US-Brazil Joint Action Giving sequence to its expansion project and commitment with the Growth Acceleration Program Plan to Eliminate Ethnic and Racial Discrimination and to Promote Equality. (PAC) of the Brazilian Federal Government, three new wholly owned hydroelectric power plants are under construction – Santo Antônio (RO), under SPE, Simplício (RJ/MG), and Batalha (GO/MG), and FURNAS renowned excellence in 2010 was highlighted at the 5th Brazil Environment Award 11 transmission projects are being developed, three with the Company’s own resources and eight for the Best Practice in Environmental Education – Projeto Horizontes (Horizon Project) for the under SPE. Still within PAC, FURNAS partakes in the SPE responsible for the implementation of Teles reinstatement of the environmental licensing of Itumbiara HPP; at the 12th Award of the Brazilian Pires HPP. Construction is expected to commence in 2011. Association of Incorporated Companies for 2010 Annual Report; and at the Golden Medal of the Paulista Quality Award. For the third consecutive year, the Federal Government awarded FURNAS In 2010, FURNAS concluded a project envisaging the construction of three wind power parks on with the Pro Gender Equity Seal for the group of actions implemented, among other awards listed the shore of the State of Rio Grande do Norte, under SPE, which should aggregate 147.6 MW to the at the end of the chapter entitled “Ethics and Governance” of this Report. Company’s operational availability, while increasing its activities in northeastern Brazil. Investments toward wind energy reinforce the Company’s commitment with criteria of social and environmental sustainability. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 In terms of Social Responsibility, FURNAS partook actively in producing the international standard ISO 26.000, which was made public in November 2010. The Company also adhered to the Women’s Empowerment Principles, an initiative launched in March 2010 through a partnership with the United Nations Fund for Women (UNIFEM) and the United Nations Global Compact, which oﬀers the corporate community a new tool to expand and value women’s leadership in the work market. furnas furnas 20 21 22 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Ethics and Governance 23 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 ETHICs anD GOVErnanCE Commitments and action-taking grounded on Gender equity in FURNAS global principles. Giving sequence to what was started in 2004, and prompted by the directives and affirmative actions defined by the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) for the controlled companies, FURNAS adhered to the third edition of the Pro-Gender Equity, of the Federal Government, for the period 2009/2010. The Company’s adhesion to the third one, in 2005/2006, was considered a hallmark in the history of the Company. FURNAS is one of the three companies in Brazil that has been awarded the three versions of Hand in hand with the world the Seal. FURNAS is a signatory of initiatives such as the Global Compact and the Objectives of the Millennium Since then, the Company has been awarded the Seal for the whole of the actions put into practice under (ODM), both of the UNO, and the Pact in Action for Climate Protection, launched by the Brazilian Corporate the supervision of the Gender Group. Such actions promote fair treatment and equal opportunities for Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS), thus becoming a Founding Member of the Brazilian GHG men and women at FURNAS, and also foster the development of new ways to handle human resources Program Protocol in 2008. and corporate culture. By adhering to the Global Compact, the Company committed itself to internalize principles and carry We may highlight the growth of women’s role in managerial positions, as the chart below shows, or a out public interest initiatives, thus contributing to improve human life. The set of principles of the 47.06% increase from 2004 to 2010. Global Compact is a guideline to the signatory-companies activities in four areas: Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Against Corruption. Number of women in managerial positions After the Declaration of the Millennium was approved in 2000, the UNO member countries established eight proposals to reduce poverty and inequalities, and safeguard sustainable development. For this to 49 50 46 be met until 2015, social, economic, and environmental targets were defined, and FURNAS adhered to 40 40 the eight objectives. Programs and social initiatives put in place not only contribute to the fulfillment of 37 34 the ODM, but also reflect what was committed in the Global Compact. Women’s Empowerment Principles (UNIFEM) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 The “Women’s Empowerment Principles – Equality means Business” were launched in March 2010. This document is the product of a partnership between the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) and the United Nations Global Compact. The objective is to offer the corporate community a new tool in the professional realm to amplify and value women´s leadership in the job market. Further information on the Gender Group’s activities in 2010 may be found in Chapter Society and Community of this Report. The initiative was countersigned by FURNAS and 39 CEO’s of several companies in the CEO’s Declaration of Support to the “Women’s Empowerment Principles – Equality Means Business” in June 2010. In this document, both CEO’s and the Boards of Executive Officers express their commitment with the promotion of equality between men and women to be adopted on a global scale so as to represent Program Right Hand global and domestic diversity in companies. FURNAS, a signatory of the Corporate Pact, partakes in the Program Right Hand – an initiative of the Institute Childhood Brazil, to curb sexual exploitation of children and teenagers along Brazilian roads. In “Women’s Empowerment Principles” read as follows: 2010, the Company participated in workshops to qualify its collaborators to be able to act in focus points and as multipliers, thus contributing to the fight against this social ailment. During the National Seminar • Leadership Provides Gender Equality; on Transportation of Utilities-Senatrans, in São Paulo, FURNAS stressed the importance of the campaign susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 • Equal Opportunities, Inclusion and Non-discrimination; against the sexual exploitation of children and teenagers on Brazilian roads, promoting the Program at • Health, Safety and End of Violence; the Seminar. The Company also invited Childhood Brazil to hold a lecture at Batalha HPP construction • Education and Training; site for the Company’s own managers and those of the construction company hired to build the dam, • Entrepreneurial Development and Supply Chain and Marketing Practices; Camargo Corrêa, to increase employee awareness on the issue. For the employees of both companies, • Community Leadership and Engagement; and and service renderers alike, educational campaigns were conducted, folders distributed and informative • Transparency, Accountability and Report. boards positioned in circulation areas. furnas furnas 24 25 ETHICs anD GOVErnanCE Governance strategies Strategic planning FURNAS governance is constituted by Deliberative Processes, Official and Support Corporate Reports. FURNAS Strategic Planning was made in 2008 before the onset of the PTSE with the aid of an external In the Deliberative Processes, those matters of interest of each upper management area are brought consultancy and with the participation of representatives of practically all areas of the Company. Revision before the appraisal of the Executive Board. Each matter is expressed and grounded, and brought forth in was concluded so it could hold with the directives of the PTSE. Today, it does reflect the company’s a Proposal for Upper Management Resolution (PRD), previously distributed to all directors. The eligibility envisaged strategies based on an analysis of the internal and external environments, being perfectly in control process of each PRD is based upon the analysis of independent reports issued by specialized line with the conduct expected from the Eletrobras System controlled companies, a robust group, the departments, especially those issued by the legal and economic areas. They must be consistent with industry’s market leader with a high leverage potential. the scope of the proposal and the technical report as issued by the areas involved; they must inform the issuing areas of any non-conformity, dully commented and grounded both on the Company’s and In 2010, after an extensive revision, the Strategy Map and the Resulting Indicators were concluded, outside standards. When more emphasis on an inter-disciplinary discussion is made necessary, transitory thus giving rise to a performance analysis tool at the strategic level. The Strategic Initiative Groups were work groups and/or permanent Committees are enacted by a decision of the Board. reactivated and stimulated to keep revising the Strategic Actions and its respective indicators, which should be given sequence until 2011. Committees are action groups of a continuous nature, composed of representatives of the Company’s several managerial levels, whose objective is to provide flexibility for the Company so it may act in line with the changes framing both the internal as much as the external environments. The following Risk Management committees are effective: Ethics Commission, Human Resources, Occupational Health and Safety, Energy Commercialization, Coordination of New Businesses, Water Resources, Quality and Productivity, At the end of 2009, FURNAS created the Risk Management Committee in order to represent the Executive Information Safety, Research and Development, IT, FURNAS Pro-Memory, Technical Standardization, Board in the decision-making processes concerning corporate risk management. In January 2010, a Work Corporate Communication, Solidarity Selective Garbage Collection Commission, Insurance, Document Group (GT) composed of employees from the Company’s several strategic areas was set up so as to Evaluation and Social & Wealth Management. A table showing each Committee’s objectives may be develop corporate risk management strategies, and to meet the call of Eletrobras demands. The project found at the end of this report. was developed in collaboration with the Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC) which, together with the Special Group on Risk Management (GE) – created at the same time of the GT – made the Corporate Risk Management Master Plan (PDGR) during 2010. Eletrobras Transformation Plan The PDGR was conceived mirrored on ISO 31000, and was developed in five stages: team preparation, Eletrobras System Transformation Plan (PTSE) came as an effort to transform Eletrobras and its controlled awareness building and qualification, survey, diagnosis, and finally document preparation. Besides the companies due to the several changes that occurred in the legal framework of the power industry sector, proposed managerial framework developed for FURNAS, a catalogue listing 114 corporate risk events and mainly due to the awareness that large expansion projects shall come into effect the moment also came to press. synergy is produced between state-owned companies and private investors. FURNAS, as much as the other companies of the system, already felt it would be necessary to restructure itself, and more than that, to conform to the new power industry realm once several private investors started to operate in power generation, transmission, distribution and commercialization. The Company partakes in several work groups, pointing out possible solutions so the companies may move on safely in a business environment different from that they were used to. No doubt the plan’s main target is to guide the whole of the Eletrobras System to a new competitive level, where the right to provide electric energy is exercised in auctions where business competence is a main virtue. The Company thus reoriented its Strategic Planning to put it in line with the directives and strategies of the Federal Government. Moreover, it adhered to the new Code of Ethics and to the Sustainability Policy of the Eletrobras Companies, determining FURNAS Corporate Sustainability Committee to streamline susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 with the Company’s areas to ensure the necessary action-taking to meet such policy. Seeking to improve institutional relationship and corporate sustainability, in 2010 FURNAS revised the Company’s Strategic Risk Map, which was based on the PTSE and presented guidance toward integrated risk management within the group’s companies in line with the 2009-2012 Eletrobras Strategic Action Program (PAE). furnas furnas 26 27 ETHICs anD GOVErnanCE Sarbanes-Oxley Law Interested party Relationship chanel Main programs and action-taking Internal public • Intranet • Transparency Network, Stay Tunned All procedures and norms practiced by FURNAS conform to the requisites of Sarbanes-Oxley as the • Clipping Holding filed a registration statement of its American Depositary Receipts (ADR) with the Securities and • Human Research Portal – People • Remuneration and Career Plan Exchange Commission (SEC) in 2008 to trade the Company’s stocks in the New York Stock Exchange Managemnt • Performance Management System (NYSE). This law requires that relevant IT business be documented (mapped) and assessed in terms of • Programs related to health, safety, and the efficacy of the way controls were devised for each process. Mapping concerns surveying procedures quality of life at work • Competence Development used for the execution of tasks; existing controls destined to minimize risks identiﬁed for each process; those ones responsible for the execution of each control activity; requisites of systems and technologies • Ombudsman (www.furnas.com.br/ • Intermediation and facilitation between and other issues relating to the execution of processes. Ouvidoria.asp) the community, employees and the Company In line with the established by the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) for the Eletrobras System, FURNAS • Ethics Commission (www.furnas.com.br/ • Publication of principles developed a new model of Strategic Planning at the corporate level, as already mentioned, a state-of-thedocs.asp?doc=arcs\pdf\codigo_de_ etica.pdf) art corporate management model – ERP (Projeto Sintonia) and Project SOX, both implemented in 2010. The SOX accreditation process designed to conform to Sarbanes-Oxley consists of a survey covering • Social Responsibility Coordination • Volunteering Program • Sustainability Report all internal controls developed for financial statements, and the objective is to allow Eletrobras to keep the registration statement with SEC and trading stock at the NYSE. The first accreditation was granted in • Gender Group (www.furnas.com.br/ • Pro Gender Equity Action Plan 2009, and will be reinstated on a yearly basis. links.asp?lnk=grupogenero/ grupogenero.asp) In 2010 the following phases were dully completed: identification of relevant accounts and processes and Unions • Aid for Union Relationship Portal • Publication of Collective Labor Agreements companies as far as materiality is concerned: risk assessment associated to relevant accounts/processes • Managers of Regional Areas • Compliance with legal requirements that may impact the Company’s ﬁnancials; documentation and test concerning corporate controls on IT and related demands processes; implementation of the necessary action plans designed to correct occasional mistakes; and • Meetings finally, the issuance of the accreditation, which is to be submitted to the SEC, in the United States. Union representatives • Human Resource Superintendence Government agencies No-barrier relationship MME • Executive Board • Government Programs (PAC, Light for Everybody, Prodeem and PROCEL) FURNAS does understand that the relationship with stakeholders interested in what the Company is active in must be that of a comprehensive nature, so success can be reached. We must first listen EPE • Transmission Planning Department • Electro-energetic sector Planning • Work and Study Groups and before taking action. This is what guides the Company’s dialogue with the internal public, unions, union Commissions representatives, government agencies, the holding company (Eletrobras), ONS, partner companies, industry sector representatives (both domestic and foreign), society, community, non-governmental CCEE • Energy Commercialization • Electric Energy Commercialization associations, social movements, universities and research centers, schools, shareholders, press/media, Superintendence Contracts clients and suppliers on an ongoing basis, broken down as follows: ANEEL • Executive Board • Legalization of generation and transmission facilities • Sustainability Report • Upper Management, Energy Operation • Homologation of Energy Purchase and and Commercialization Sale Contracts • Facility inspection • Inspection Report outlining recommendations, guidance and appraisals • R&D Aid • R&D Program susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Environmental • Superintendence of Environmental • Environmental Studies and Programs Agencies Management • Environmental Licenses Holding company • Executive Board • Strategic Planning (Eletrobras) • Committees and Work Groups • Eletrobras Transformation Plan ONS • Superintendence of Operations • SIN Operation Planning and Studies furnas furnas 28 29 ETHICs anD GOVErnanCE Interested party Relationship chanel Main programs and action-taking Interested party Relationship chanel Main programs and action-taking Stakeholders • Executive Board • Establishment of SPEs to implement Clients • Superintendence of Electric Energy • Contracts • Commercialization and Services Aid generation and transmission Commercialization • Upper Management, Energy Operation undertakings and Commercialization • Operation and Maintenance Contracts • Service Commercialization Aid • Current Services where FURNAS possesses technological expertise Industry Sector • FURNAS employees acting as • Industry Sector Congresses and events Associations (both representatives Suppliers • Procurement Superintendence • Bidding process national and foreign) • List of Registered Suppliers • Furnas website (www.furnas.com.br) • Principles and Norms of Corporate Society • Ombudsman (www.furnas.com.br/ • Intermediate and facilitate the Conduct between FURNAS and Ouvidoria.asp) relationship between the community, Suppliers employees and the Company • Meeting with Suppliers • Ethics Commission (www.furnas.com. • Disclosure of Principles br/docs.asp ?doc=arcs\pdf\codigo_ de_etica.pdf) Note: FURNAS relationship with government agencies and participation in industry sectors forums are detailed in the Company’s 2010 Annual Report (www.furnas.com.br). • FURNAS site (www.furnas.com.br) • Institutional Information • Corporate Reports • Talk to us (www.furnas.com.br/home/ • Requirements and information Ombudsman frmLoginFale.asp) processing • Twitter • Explanation about FURNAS role In 2010, highlight should be given to the Normative Instruction “Manifestation to the Ombudsman”, which provides the criteria and guidance to the issues brought before the Ombudsman Office, and also • 08000252555 (System Operation • Emergency hotline Control Room) the on-line forms dubbed “Ombudsman Recommendations”, which registers on a standardized way the suggestions brought before the Company´s managers, and the “Ombudsman Analytical Report”, which Community • Coordination of Social Responsibility • Social and Environmental Projects • FURNAS Cultural Hall is used for the detailed report of more complex analysis and solution, appraised practically on the same • Community forums basis as the previous ones. • Superintendence of Environmental • Public Hearings and Meetings Management The Ombudsman Office registered 792 manifestations grouped under the categories of information requests (44%), complaints (43%), accusations (7%), suggestions (4%) and praises (2%). Of this total, 72% • Central Oﬃce, Representatives and • Institutional Visits were external manifestations, 23% internal ones, and 5% non-identified. Regional Representatives Non-governmental • Social Responsibility Coordination • Social and Environmental Projects Organizations • Community forums • Superintendence of Environmental • Public Hearings and Meetings Ethics Commission Management • Central Oﬃce, Representatives and Among the major breakthroughs achieved by FURNAS Ethics Commission, the new Eletrobras System Regional Representatives Code of Ethics is foremost, as the next paragraph highlights. Besides this, the Commission participated Social Movements • Work Group • Compensation Programs and actionmonthly in the National Forum of Ethics Management in State-owned Companies, including therein the taking toward impacted families Subcommittee Commission for specific activities and the Corporate Ethics Committee of the National Universities and • Aid Support to R&D • R&D Program Quality Foundation (FNQ). It also participated in the XIth Seminar “Ethics in Management”, coordinated by Research Centers the Public Ethics Commission (CEP), and analyzed and concluded every ethical nonconformity brought • FURNAS employees acting as R&D before itself during 2010. Only one sexual discrimination report was registered, and a Professional and coordinators Personal Commitment Term of Conduct was signed by the defendant. The other cases brought before Schools • Energy Conservation Aid • Education for Energy Conservation the Commission concerned the undue use of Information Technology or administrative problems. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 • Regional Representatives • Guided visits, lectures Shareholders • Shareholders General Meeting • Ordinary and Extraordinary General Shareholder´s Meeting Printed media/grand • Social Communication Coordination • Demand processing media • Institutional and Legal Publicity • Clipping furnas furnas 30 31 ETHICs anD GOVErnanCE Stakeholder engagement At year end 2010, Eletrobras made a survey on the most relevant sustainability issues as considered by each one of its stakeholders in order to improve accountability. The survey covered the controlled companies. The 712 answers submitted to the Company may be broken down as follows: Stakeholder Nº of answers Shareholder/investor 6 Community 9 Client 7 Employees 42 Outsourced personnel 611 Supplier 26 Government 1 Others 5 Organized civil society 5 The issues that were considered relevant by the whole of stakeholders, without considering pondering An Only Code of Ethics for the Eletrobras System the number of answers per category may be discriminated as follows: community, indirect economic impacts, economic performance, biodiversity, suppliers, energy, emissions, effluents and residues. During the meetings of Eletrobras Sustainability Committee in 2010, gaps in meeting ISE – Bovespa and the Dow Jones (DJSI) standards were found, and they referred to the Code of Ethics. At the so-called “Tucuruí Pact” summit, the companies of the Eletrobas System felt that an only code of ethics for the group was made necessary and raised sustainability issues that were to be addressed collectively. In order to brainstorm the terms laid down by the pact, the Ethics Work Group of the Eletrobras System was established (GTESE), which is composed of representatives of the Company’s board of executive officers, and a representative of each company under the system. The GTESE conducted eight workshops with all areas, and special attention was given to those most sensitive ones, such as supply, bidding processes, human resources, relationship with investors, legal issues, and sponsorships, among others. A workshop was also conducted separately in each one of the companies of the Eletrobras System so as to emphasize and legitimate the code of ethics in each one of them. The Ethics Commission participated in the New Employee Integration Program (PINE), lecturing on Ethics Management and the new Code of Ethics. The whole work was coordinated by Eletrobras Ethics Commission, done in line with the policies practiced by the other Ethics Commissions of the other controlled companies. Talk to Us susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 FURNAS uses this communication channel on its intranet page so any one may place requests, make praises, suggestions, complaints, accusations or information requests. In 2010, the Company registered 5,211 messages, 30 of which addressed specific issues of Social Responsibility. Of all registered messages, 93% were addressed. The marginal level of unanswered messages was due to furnas errors in data transmission or to the inability of reaching the respective area. furnas 32 33 ETHICs anD GOVErnanCE awards and acknowledgements In 2010, FURNAS won important awards, reflecting the Company’s commitment with global values and principles valuing social and environmental welfare. GRI Readers’ Choice Awards 2010 FURNAS 2008 Sustainability Report, dubbed “The Wire that Binds Us Together”, was a breakthrough in three out of six categories in the second and last phase of GRI Readers’ Choice Awards 2010, organized by the Global Reporting Initiative, in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The Report was considered the third best in the category “Most Eﬀective Report”, 4th in the category “Civil Society”, and 4th in the category “GRI Readers´ Choice”. Over 2 thousand publications ran for the awards and 1,100 were voted by the readers. Citizen Company Award FURNAS was awarded the certificate Citizen Company by the Regional Accounting Council of Rio de Janeiro for the eighth year in a row for its 2009 Sustainabilty Report – “The Wire that Binds Us Together”, in a ceremony held at Fecomércio-RJ, in October 2010. Rogério Morgado Trophy Promoted by the Fundação Coge (Coge Foundation), the Company won this award for presenting the largest number of projects (27) under the category “Social Responsibility Initiatives” in the last 10 years. Among the projects, it is worth mentioning the Community Integration Nucleus, whose objective is to integrate job and income generation in four communities – in the states of Espírito Santo, Rio de Janeiro and Mato Grosso – benefitting around 20 thousand people. 5th Edition of Mogi News Award/Chevrolet of Social Responsibility in Alto Tietê The projects awarded were Power Grid, Say me Say You and Seamstress of the Construction Department of the South Transmission. Vth Edition of the DEST Dissertation/Monograph Award A collaborator of the Aid for the Promotion of Corporate Citizenship was second place with the susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Dissertation “The GRI viability model in FURNAS”. furnas furnas 34 35 36 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Technology and Innovation 37 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 TECHnOLOGY anD InnOVaTIOn Development of public interest projects ensuring Technology aiding quality innovation and technology in the benefit of social welfare and the environment. ERP/SAP – 6.0 The Enterprise Resource Planning – ERP, implemented on January 1st, 2010, internally dubbed Projeto Sintonia (Tuning Project) was initiated in October 2008. Our main challenge was to develop a A survey conducted by The Pew Charitable Trusts and Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) in management system in 18 months to prepare FURNAS to face a new business environment in the power the beginning of 2011 indicates Brazil as the sixth country in the G-20 in terms of investments industry sector. in clean/renewable energy sources. US$243 billion were invested in clean energy sources, a 30% growth over 2009. According to the survey, in 2010 the domestic renewable power sector Objectives To integrate FURNAS business processes through an only data basis with real-time information, thus received inflows worth US$ 7.6 billion, giving Brazil a runner-up placement in the list of emerging facilitating decision making by management, besides promoting the Company’s technological update. countries, after China. Results In line with the economic performance of Brazil, FURNAS started to invest in project development Systems support, envisaging technologies toward water reserve and the production of alternative energy 2008 2010 sources. In this context, the Company started oﬀ in wind energy and is now seeking to invest in biomass and solar energy. 127 No. of systems 26 • De-phasing of 102 systems and migration of other 25 systems to another platform not contemplated by ERP. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 furnas furnas 38 39 TECHnOLOGY anD InnOVaTIOn Investing in innovation Mainframe maintenance costs FURNAS is able to invest around R$ 50 million in R&D in the period 2010/2011, which holds well above the 2009 2010 2011 2012 legal obligation, between R$ 26 million and R$ 28 million yearly, corresponding to 0.4% of the Company’s net operating profit. 4,542,000 3,370,000 Education as a strategy Managers and collaborators at the Support Aid to R&D concluded the specialization course on Strategic Management in the Power Industry Sector. The course, sponsored by Eletrobras, lasted 18 months, and 1,685,000 was attended by 40 employees of the Eletrobras System. 0 Alternative energy sources Yearly figures After successfully winning the Reserve Energy Auction (LER) at year end 2009, FURNAS and partners – namely Miassaba Geradora Eólica, Eolo Geradora Eólica, Eletronorte, Bioenergy and J. Malucelli – • Total mainframe system de-phasing until 2012 meant an economy of over R$ 4.5 million, R$ 1.2 million were entitled the right to build three wind parks in the state of Rio Grande do Norte. In 2010, the of which still in 2010; Company endeavored therefore to develop all activities to start construction. Wind, land and social • The expected 20% work force reduction provides for a noticeable ﬁnancial resource economy; and environmental studies were initiated, and the efforts toward choosing and purchasing air • Tax reduction through measures to implement compliance with Decree 6022/07 ruling Electronic generators were made. The purpose is to have the park implemented by July 2012. Rei dos Ventos 1, 3 Invoice and accounting and ﬁscal procedures concerning SPED; and Miassaba 3 will generate around 150 MW worth of wind power. • Remuneration basis expected to be increased due to compliance with Resolution 367/09 enacted by the Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency (ANEEL), which regulates equity control and the assessment of the Regulatory Remuneration Basis; and Rei dos Ventos 1 • Integration of processes, cost optimization and information reliability all contribute to substantive gains • Total estimated cost: R$ 260 million in the decision-making process and increase competitive edge. • Municipality: Jandaíra (RN) • Average area: 1,300 hectares • Number of jobs estimate (as forecast in the Simplified Environmental Report): 25 • Maximum number of job placements: 500 workers (10% of the local unqualified workforce) fostering innovation • Generating units: 27 • Total installed capacity: 48.6 MW Rei dos Ventos 3 Research and Development – R&D • Total estimated cost: R$ 260 million • Municipality: Jandaíra (RN) In 2010, the second Internal Prospection of Demands for Research and Development (R&D) along with • Average area: 1,300 hectares the Public Bid Proposals and Projects related to R&D (2010 Public Bidding) took place. On the whole, • Number of jobs estimate (as forecast in the Simplified Environmental Report): 25 22 projects were sent to ANEEL’s evaluation. Of those projects in development in 2010, 11 are focused • Maximum number of job placements: 500 workers (10% of the local unqualified workforce) on sustainability and are all related to environmental issues. The table showing project itemization is in • Generating units: 27 Appendix 5 (Environmental Indicators) of this publication. • Total installed capacity: 48.6 MW Freedom to Innovate Miassaba 3 The changes made in Law 8666/2003 by means of Law 12349, of December 15, 2010 enable state• Total estimated cost: R$ 270 million susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 owned and mix private-state owned companies to hire companies and consortiums already in 2011. • Municipality: Guamaré (RN) This should promote an interesting switch. FURNAS, which then only developed R&D projects up to the • Average area: 1,400 hectares prototype stage and experimental development, may now transform projects into products. • Number of jobs estimate (as forecast in the Simplified Environmental Report): 25 • Maximum number of job placements: 500 workers (10% of the local unqualified workforce) Patent Registration • Generating units: 28 In December 2010, four patents were pending at the National Institute of Industrial Property (INPI), • Total installed capacity: 50.4 MW all linked to High Power Transmission Line projects. furnas furnas 40 41 TECHnOLOGY anD InnOVaTIOn Department of support and Technical Control The Department of Support and Technical Control was established in 1990, and since then FURNAS has considered it a strategic unit in the development of technological services and activities addressing Research, Development and Innovation. Most of its activities are geared toward new installations, with a focus on civil engineering and related areas in order to guarantee business sustainability. Since the beginning of ANEEL’s R&D portfolio projects, the Department of Support and Technical Control has developed several R&D projects. Projects currently in the R&D portfolio total 20, all geared toward sustainability since their onset, as are the resources put in place for their development. These are projects often developed in partnership with Brazil’s top universities and research centers such as COPPE/UFRJ, PUC-RJ, USP, UFSC, UnB, UFRGS, UFG, among others. The social benefits produced by R&D projects lay well ahead the innovations produced. The educational development of the professionals involved, either from FURNAS or the partner institutions, as well as the knowledge transfer that the newsletters issued entail are worth mention. Another relevant aspect of the activities conducted by the Department of Support and Technical Control is the incorporation of environmental issues in project assessment, considering related impacts vis-à-vis the contribution to sustainability. The results are extremely important, with positive environmental impacts, as the research lines below indicate: Besides the aforementioned, all research projects are developed in order to increase the Company´s competitive edge, with an emphasis on cost reduction. The reduction of expenses is living proof • Mineral Additions: One may say that the most important step toward the development of concrete of the innovations brought and the capacity aggregated by such research activities in those areas in the last century stemmed from the use of industrial by-products in the production of the most where the Department of Support and Technical Control is active. Overall cost reduction in the last diverse types of concrete. Research also seeks to minimize the environmental impact produced by ten years has totaled R$ 200 million. industrial by-products and waste through their re-use in concrete structures; and Other benefits relate to structure durability, and maintenance cost reduction, among others. • Soil: In dam construction, availability and localization of construction material are paramount when considering construction costs. Such material, however, may not always be found at an Putting together state-of-the-art technological development and sustainability – in their economic, economically viable distance or amount, which may render the use of unconventional material social and environmental dimensions – is a permanent directive for the Department of Support and (residual soil) a valid alternative, mainly when originating from mandatory excavations, thus Technical Control. In this sense, cutting-edge technology and sustainability have been a trademark shunning mining activities, which often provoke steep environmental damages when hydroelectric since the onset of its research projects. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 power plants are built. furnas furnas 42 43 44 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Society and Community 45 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Taking a bet on community’s organization drive Itamar Silva* “The Community is both the starting point and point of arrival” Today, the meaning of “development” lacks consensus by far. At each of the Earth’s spin, we ask ourselves about sustainability and the current consumption patterns established by richer countries. The will to acquire goods, inequalities and the destruction of nature are true challenges vis-à-vis the pervasive effects in humankind. The motto “the world is a global village” is even more current today. And no one can doubt the planet´s interconnecting power. It is impacting how much reduced time and space are getting, and under this perspective, the community is given highlight. Despite all technological advancements, humankind remains holding a primitive relationship with nature. The globalized logical system guiding development still looks at nature as a source of exploitation, and what is worse, in an increasingly shorter space and time. That is why new and bigger challenges lie ahead. Today we are aware the planet (nature) is finite. The solution, though, can only come from humankind itself, situated in space and time. The community is a territory where people relate with one another, where social and productive networks are present and where disputes and conflicts emerge. This is exactly where answers are produced, and room is made for new development opportunities. This is where the search for a “good life” is made possible, where a new social pact is to be construed on an ongoing basis so life as enjoyed by all may be in harmony with nature. We know facts take place in a given territory, where effects are prompted by interwoven processes. It is humankind, lying on an edge, under the pressure of concrete conditions, dealing with environmental and political perspectives who ultimately creates and innovates social and economic processes. A community’s development stems from a social organization manned by articulated people, galvanized by social networks, who exercise their rights. That is why the community is both the starting point and susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 point of arrival. *Itamar Silva, coordinator of the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analysis (Ibase), of which FURNAS has been a partner since 2005, in a project named “Integration Nucleus”. furnas furnas 46 47 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Commitment with promoting social responsibility social responsibility Policy before shareholders, employees, suppliers and clients, those organizations that are part of the FURNAS Social Responsibility Policy establishes the guidelines for the way it handles social responsibility power industry sector, society and other issues. With it, the Company ratifies the commitment with the Principles of the Global Compact and with the Millennium Development Goals, documents that orient the Company´s corporate practices. stakeholders. The major contributions brought by this policy are: the protection and promotion of human rights so FURNAS may not engage in actions aﬀecting them; the due support to decent working conditions, ensuring the right of association and collective bargaining in labor relations, and fighting against Today’s corporate world is permanently working bearing two concepts in mind: social responsibility child labor, forced labor and any form of discrimination in its supply chain; the responsibility for the and sustainable development. FURNAS confirms this trend. By acknowledging the impacts its environment by handling it in a preventive way and adopting clean technologies; ﬁghting corruption businesses produce and its strong capability to contribute to a sustainable world, the Company in all aspects; eradicating hunger and poverty; universalizing basic education; promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment; reducing newborn mortality; improving maternal health; ﬁghting intends to build a reputation of excellence in corporate citizenship. In this sense, a sustainable against AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other diseases; guaranteeing environmental sustainability and posture makes room for the prevention of future risks, such as environmental impacts and legal the development of partnerships to reach out these objectives. The complete text on FURNAS Social actions brought against the Company. FURNAS thus understands that by contributing with Responsibility Policy may be found in Appendix 1.1 (Social Responsibility). responsible action-taking toward society and the environment it also contributes to safeguarding FURNAS support, be it of a financial nature or not, is made available through sponsorships and social natural resources and to the understanding that sustainable development does not only refer to the actions that seek to conform to the commitments established by said Policy. The funding for social environment itself, but also to the improvement of its corporate image and oriented growth. investments stems either from own resources or tax waivers. Finally, any social investment made by FURNAS must comply with a number of criteria such as the applicable strategies and the promotion In 2010, FURNAS optimized social investments and contributed to the development of communities of benefits for the communities lying in the outskirts of the Company’s installations. The Company acts through partnerships with the public sector, social organizations or networks, thus contributing to lying in the outskirts of its installations. The Company therefore minimizes negative impacts and the development of social organizations. To make it possible, public policies should be extended and stresses positive ones. By placing itself in the communities where it is active in a responsible strengthened. way, FURNAS builds with these same communities a relationship that reflects positively on the Company’s reputation. Internal public Team-supported achievement FURNAS seeks to keep a cooperative relationship with employees, acknowledging their rights, promoting welfare and quality of life, besides disseminating values such as diversity, health and safety. To do so, a solid internal communication process is made available. The link between collaborators and FURNAS is built through the HR Portal – a research tool for consulting benefits, library resources, agreements and professional development, among other issues. The monthly issued FURNAS newsletter is also another tool, as is FURNASNet (Company’s Intranet), which publicizes policies and results, therefore contributing to democratizing and giving transparency to corporate data. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 FURNAS Human Resource Superintendence works based on ethics, corporate social responsibility principles, improving labor relationship, as forecast in the Company’s Human Resource Policy. It not only fosters personal development, but also a fair professional performance, teamwork and equal rights. By liaising the Company´s executive levels and employees, managers are stimulated to think strategically, considering the corporate realm not only in what refers to the operational matters furnas they are involved with. furnas 48 49 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY In dealing with collective issues involving labor negotiations with several unions, FURNAS FURNAS Gender Equity acknowledges their legitimacy, keeping with them a relationship of partnership. During 2010, the Gender Group (GG), with representatives from all of the Company´s Upper Management, At the end of 2010, the Company had 6,497 people in its payroll, 4,906 of which were employees implemented around 80% of the targets of the Action Plan defined by the Group. One of the highlights and 1,591 outsourced, as shown in Table 4.1 (Internal Social and Sector Indicators). was the celebration of Women´s International Day, at the Central Office and Regional Offices, where the issue ¨Work and Family¨ was given special attention; also, the celebration of the 6th year of the Gender Movie Session, totalizing 60 exhibitions luring around 3,000 spectators; the publicity the Based on dialogue Company gave to the drive for the 16-Day Activism against Violence against Women; the signature of the Women Empowerment Principles and the Co-joint Action Plan for the Elimination of Racial and FURNAS sees dialogue as the basis of understanding. Negotiating diverse interests is what orients internal Ethnic Discrimination and Promotion of Equality; mapping the proﬁle of job applicants in FURNAS management processes and the relationship with other stakeholders. and their performance in public admission tests; building employees´ awareness as to equal right policies; building awareness in the relationship chain; incrementing the Company´s visibility toward Of the Company’s employees, 3,206 belong to 15 different unions organized under two representations: Gender Equity; stimulus to partake in the Company´s sponsored social projects to amplify the gender Intersindical FURNAS, in line with the Unified Workers’ Central (CUT), and União Intersindical FURNAS, a issue in the so-called program Citizenship Village, Aldeia da Cidadania; building a relationship with the follower of the General Union of Workers (UGT). Besides those unions, employees may also become a Academia; inputting the gender issue in programs of health and quality of life; and ﬁnally incrementing member of Furnas Employee Association (ASEF), now with 1,074 members. the relationship with associations supporting the interest of employees. Supporting improvement Aware of everyone’s opinion Most of the Company’s employees have secondary school level. College graduates come in second. The Organizational Climate Corporate Survey is supposed to unfold the opinion of the workforce – both FURNAS Career and Remuneration Plan (PCR) ensures a better human resource management on the part employees and outsourced – on the Company´s issues of interest. The results help managers and the of the Company and also enables employees to plan their careers. workforce alike to plan and implement improvements in the workplace. Number of employees according to education Starting at 2010, the Organizational Climate Corporate Survey is based on the model developed with the collaboration of professionals from all areas of the Eletrobras System. Position 2010 2009 2008 Managerial 372 371 379 In 2010, the Survey was realized from October 25 to November 30. Results will constitute an indicator College Degree 1,489 1,407 1,378 of employee satisfaction, and Action Plans are expected to be developed in 2011 in order to improve Technical 1,956 1,895 1,888 corporate organizational climate. Support Secondary Level 758 757 750 Basic Level 331 328 329 According to the rules, to participate in the Survey, employees or outsourced personnel should be Total 4,906 4,758 4,724 exercising their professional roles for more than six months. Answers are confidential and were stored in a separate databank for tabulation. In order to comply with the directives of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), which seek to strengthen the Eletrobras System, the PCR´s implementation for the companies of the System started in September 2010. Employees admitted from this date on are already under the PCR. Eligibility for those admitted Talent development until August 31 was made possible after a union´s general meeting approved the “Additive Term to ACT In 2010, talent development was fostered in several fronts so as to stress education as a leveraging tool 2010/2011”, granting employee admission to the PCR, formalized at the union. for personal, professional and corporate development at FURNAS. Investments totaling R$ 6.3 million were made in Educational Programs addressing specifically employees, not to mention the incentives put in place for formal education, or 121,905 man/hour trained. A total of 3,246 collaborators among susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 employees, managers, personnel transferred from sister companies and outsourced professionals attended educational/professional courses. furnas furnas 50 51 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Highlights: Suppliers • Implementation of policies and practices toward Corporate Education in FURNAS; Procurement processes in FURNAS are ruled by Law 8666/93 from the moment suppliers are selected to • Ongoing development of the Knowledge Mapping Project of the Company´s several areas; the management of contractual tools, which provide for the due ruling on industrial engineering safety, • Institution of the Knowledge Footsteps; environmental protection and labor conditions. Suppliers must prove minors under 18 are neither hired • Execution of the Yearly Development Plan (PAD); in night shifts, nor work in risky or unsanitary conditions; the same applies to minors under 16, except • Development of the necessary training so employees in risk areas may possess the knowledge to those above 14 years of age hired as apprentices. conduct themselves safely as stipulated by the Ministry of Labor (MTE); • Promotion of education in line with the Personal Development Plan (PDI); Suppliers are inspected toward the compliance with labor and social security legislation and labor • Implementation of initiatives such as distance learning; and taxes, thus producing the documents attesting social security and the Severance Indemnity Fund for • Action-taking with the Company´s technical areas to deﬁne strategic educational programs, such Employees (FGTS) are regularized in every stage of the procurement process, such as the production of as the Basic Training Course toward technical qualification. documents, bidding, contract signature and the payments made against invoices. In regional offices, FURNAS gives special attention to safeguarding equal treatment to local suppliers so On our agenda: health and safety for all competition may occur on fair grounds, abiding by legislation. Building a better life for employees at FURNAS means health-related policies; employee satisfaction Since 2009 FURNAS has published the “Principles and Norms of Conduct for FURNAS Corporate and cultural activities, besides social support actions in critical situations that may affect employee Relationship with Suppliers” on its website (www.furnas.com.br/fornecedores) so all those interested in productivity and welfare are also foremost. Main initiatives and benefits are listed in the tables in participating in bidding processes may have access to it. The purpose is to share values and principles in Appendices 2 (Corporate Governance) and 4.1 (Social and Internal Sector Indicators). issues such as occupational health and safety, absence of child and slave labor, environmental control, gender equity, transparency, participation and accountability with the whole supply chain. Current Projects In 2010, FURNAS held the “2nd Meeting FURNAS and Suppliers” at the Central Office in Rio de Janeiro. Family-Company Integration, Weighing FURNAS; Down with the Couch Potato, Retirement Preparation; At the meeting, issues affecting procurement processes were discussed besides those concerning Chemical Dependency Prevention and Rehab; Physical Education for Professionals in Physically Demanding Sustainability, Code of Ethics and Gender Equity. Jobs; Pregnancy Support Group; Cultural and Behavioral Workshops, Music Festival Quatro Cantos, Interactive Community Project of Environmental Education, Environmental Risk Prevention Program; Those initiatives seek to stimulate sustainable actions within the supply chain, where suppliers play an Occupational Health Control Program; Accident Victims Rescue and Removal and Emergency Plan; Fire important role by assuming a co-responsibility conduct. Protection, Prevention and Panic Control Plan; Health and Safety Management of outsourced Companies. Within Eletrobras Transformation Plan, FURNAS partook in the making of the System´s Supply Logistics Innovative Policies Policy, designed to increase both efficiency and competitive edge through full supply logistics integration • Identiﬁcation and segmentation of chronicle diseases and occupational and non occupational sick-leaves of goods and services. One of the guiding principles of said policy fosters suppliers to conform to to help implement preventive and control actions; procedures safeguarding social and environmental responsibility and sustainability. • Management of periodic check-ups and implementation of grouped exams contemplating occupational hazards stemming from position, age and sex. This measure brought in cost reductions worth 30.3% (R$ 876.8 thousand) over 2009; • Social Security services for retirement programs, namely medical appointments backing the retirement process at the National Institute of Social Security (INSS); • Elaboration of the Accident Victims Rescue and Removal in Transmission Lines Plan, identifying the resources available in the vicinities of the TL´s and procedures in emergency situations; • Setting up the Ergonomic Study Group (COERGO), with a multidisciplinary team whose objective is to outline an ergonomic policy in the Company to improve comfort conditions in the workplace; and susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 • Qualiﬁcation of the Occupational Safety Technical Team so they may become multipliers of measures toward the control of chemical emergencies and victim rescue. furnas furnas 52 53 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Community Social and environmental impacts Infrastructure development – such as the construction of power generation and transmission undertakings – provokes economic impacts, positive and negative ones, both of which are identified and assessed by environmental impact studies previously realized. Although such impacts may vary according to where those projects are being raised, one may say that during construction positive impacts are produced in terms of job generation, salaries, tax collection in the affected municipalities, qualification of local work force and suppliers alike, and general infrastructure improvement. Conversely, construction works lure workers seeking new job opportunities, putting the existing infrastructure under pressure due to the increased demand for public services and increased living costs, markedly in remote areas. Transmission activities provoke lesser, and linear impacts as they are distributed along the lines. Negative impacts are sought to be mitigated and the positive ones maximized with specific social and environmental programs designed in collaboration with the public sector and local communities. When construction works come to a term, regional economic activities decrease as workers are laid off. Local development support projects Project “Integration Nucleus” The most daring achievement of this project is the promotion of the standard of life in the communities lying in the outskirts of FURNAS installations, an innovative, transforming process that aggregates knowledge in these communities so they may lead their own life. Since 2005, the company has put this project into practice and thirteen Integration Centers have been implemented in the states of : Rio de Janeiro, Espírito Santo, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso and Goiás. In 2010, FURNAS monitored eight Integration Centers that were already operating and implemented Clients new centers in five communities lying in the vicinities of Baguary HPP, in the state of Minas Gerais, funded by the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES). FURNAS clients are either active in electric energy distribution, generation, transmission, and commercialization or are free consumers. Jardim Gramacho, in Duque de Caxias (RJ) municipality The community has some 20 thousand inhabitants, 40% of which living off the trading of recyclable materials. In 2010, the Community Forum promoted 16 meetings attended by representatives of 28 Bilateral transmission contracts prevailing in 2010 covered at least 20 clients. institutions, local a gents and others, totaling around 35 people. Other eight meetings were also held with the Work Groups, or GT´s (Education GT, Labor and Income GT, Health GT, and Social Programs and In the Free Negotiation Environment (ACL) FURNAS commercializes energy sale for free consumers Life Conditions GT). and dealers. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Energy sale made for all Distributors of the National Interconnected System takes place in the Regular Negotiation Environment (ACR). Relationship with clients is of a direct nature and demands proximity and interaction on an ongoing basis. Given the nature of the commodity it commercializes, FURNAS is aware of its co-responsibility, from power supply to the final consumer. Further details may be found in the 2010 Annual Report under the heading “Commercialization of furnas Electric Energy”. furnas 54 55 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Araçatiba Quilombo community, Viana (ES) municipality Seminar of “Territory Development: Possibility of New Democratic Arrangements” The Araçatiba Quilombo community (descendants of fugitive slaves) houses 200 families of descendants Realized between April 29 and 30, 2010, the Seminar sought to give continuity and widen the of Indigenous People, Afro-Brazilians and Portuguese. In 2010, the Community Forum met twice in debates initialized at the Seminar Democratic Territory Governance, also a fruitful Ibase/FURNAS order to review “Araçatiba Action Plan for Community Development”, starting the negotiation process partnership, established in 2008. The partakers totaled 120 people, such as civil society and community of those demands identified in said plan with Viana City Hall. Highlight should be given to the Reference representatives in the four areas already mentioned that are under the scope of the Project Integration Project Seamstress (referred to at the end of this chapter), which provides for the commercialization of Centers, FURNAS representatives, and the technical team of the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic the products made by the Quilombola Women at the Railroad Museum, lying in Viana´s Railway Station, Analysis (Ibase). Among the issues addressed, “Territory Development: Possibility of New Democratic a permanent tourist spot, point of departure of the “Hillside Train Ride”. Arrangements – Initial Insights” and “Methodology as a support strategy to Local Development: are they facilitating or dependency eliciting measures?” were foremost. Retiro Quilombola Community, Santa Leopoldina (ES) municipality Also dubbed Quilombo do Benvindo, this community houses 75 Quilombola families. The Community Conciliation Dialogue for the Sustainable Development of FURNAS Reservoir Outskirts Forum realized two meetings in 2010 to assess and update the Action Plan for Community Development. The Conciliation Dialogue for the Sustainable Development of FURNAS Reservoir Outskirts started in Among the main initiatives we should mention electric energy equipment installation and reinforcement 2003, and brought together different groups active in the region to diagnose problems, define how to at the Cultural Center and restaurant, the participation in the State Conference on Solidarity Economy deal with them and plan for the sustainable development of municipality members of the Association of and the conclusion of works. the Municipalities Bordering Furnas Reservoir (Alago). APM Manso Region, Chapada dos Guimarães (MT) municipality By means of a technical agreement FURNAS made with the Foundation for the Support of Education The region counts on three Integration Centers: João Carro (80 families), Quilombola Settlement Project and Research (FAEPE) and the Ministry of Cities, a diagnosis on environmental sanitation was produced (80 families), and Mamede Rohder Settlement Project (96 families). There are two Reference Projects in for the 52 municipalities in the hydrographic basin of Furnas Reservoir. FURNAS thus gave support João Carro: revamping the Flour Mill and construction of the Headquarters of the Women´s Association to the development of Participative Master Plans of 50 out of the 52 municipalities (two of them and Villagers Association. In 2010, sewing and textile printing equipment were purchased and a had already started their own Master Plans) by means of another technical cooperation agreement partnership with the National Supply Company (Conab) was made, allowing the Women´s Association brought into effect in 2007. Still under the scope of the Conciliation dialogue, a technical cooperation to market its products – backyard chicken, legumes and green leaves – to be used in school cafeterias. agreement was made in 2009 to back the development of basic and executive sanitation projects. After contractual adjustments made through technical cooperation agreements, projects for 35 Batalha HPP Region municipalities are being developed since the projects in the remaining 17 municipalities are being The main purpose of the projects in this region is to enable affected people to deal with the changes funded by the sanitation company Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais (Copasa), which stemming from the construction of the power plant. Nine Community Integration Meetings were should conclude the projects in 2011. held to produce Participatory Social Diagnosis and Community Development Action Plans in the Settlements Vista Alegre, municipality of Cristalina (GO) and Jambeiro, municipality of Paracatu (MG), where 44 and 26 families, respectively, are directly affected. Baguari HPP impacted municipalities In 2010, R$1.2 million BNDES funded resources were destined to social investments in the outskirts of Baguari HPP, benefitting around 10 thousand people. Community-rallying activities addressing the implementation of five Integration Centers in: Baguari district, in the municipality of Governador Valadares; Serraria and São Sebastião do Baixio, in the municipality of Periquito; Bela Vista neighborhood, in the munipality of Sobrália, and Senhora da Penha district, in the municipality of Fernandes Tourinho. Sapé Community Quilombo Remnants, Brumadinho (MG) municipality The Integration Centers methodology was applied in the four “Community Integration Meetings” in the Sapé Community Quilombo Remnants in a partnership with Palmares Foundation. These meetings ultimately produced the Participative Social Diagnosis and the proposition of mitigating measures for susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 the social impacts stemming from the transmission line from Bom Despacho to Ouro Preto, which gave subsidies to the environmental licensing process. This quilombola community is constituted by 50 families. furnas furnas 56 57 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Light for Everybody Program In 2010, 18 courses were held, namely: Woodcraft Techniques for Ceramics Blocks and Concrete, Basic Light for Everybody Program is coordinated by the MME and carried out by Eletrobras via its subsidiaries Techniques for Construction of Electrical Installations, Sewing Techniques in Plain Woven Fabric and in partnership with state governments, energy concessionaires and rural electrification co-ops. FURNAS Motorcycle Mechanics. coordinates the program in the southeast region and in the state of Goiás. Launched in November 2003 by the Federal Government to combat the lack of electric energy, the Light for Everybody Program (PLpT) In the region where Simplício HPP is located, 122 people living in the municipalities of Sapucaia and Três objective is to provide electric energy to rural regions and localities that do not have access to this public Rios (RJ) attended training; 108 people also attended training in the region of Batalha HPP, all of whom utility service. The Program´s initial target for southeastern Brazil and the state of Goiás was to provide live in the settlements of Vista Alegre, Buriti das Gamelas and Casa Branca, in the municipality of Cristalina energy for 202,593 families. In 2010, this figure reached 483,526 power accesses, and 2,417,630 people (GO), and in Jambeiro settlement, in the municipality of Paracatu (MG). A total of 230 people over the age were benefitted. of 16 attended courses and were given certificates, becoming fully eligible to enter in the job market. People Power connections MG RJ SP ES GO Total Benefitted Power connections until 2010 281,872 18,866 85,795 59,269 37,724 483,526 2,417,630 Social projects through partnerships Power connections in 2010 46,350 795 10,838 6,968 1,352 66,303 331,515 In 2010, 27 social projects through partnerships with non-profit organizations were concluded, benefitting People 9,385 people. Of those projects, 15 were started in 2010, creating new opportunities and the promotion Integrated actions until 2010 MG RJ SP ES GO Total Benefitted of social inclusion, totaling 3,569 people benefitted. The other projects started in 2009 and were given Itinerant Library 404 75 239 165 145 1,028 377,926 sequence in 2010, reaching 5,816 people. Rural schools 1,850 13 9 376 56 2,304 168,369 Artesian wells 1,045 0 0 0 1 1,046 156,900 Of the projects developed in 2010, 14 address citizenship and civil-rights oriented issues; 9 concern education and training youngsters and adults; and 4 refer to work and income. Community health care centers 17 0 0 0 0 17 7,277 Community Production Centers 269 17 6 10 0 302 160,532 The table showing the figures above mentioned may be found in Appendix 4.2 (Social and External Sector Quilombola villages 12 3 40 43 9 107 20,687 Indicators). Native Brazilian villages 4 1 3 1 7 16 1,322 Citizenship Villages 0 0 0 0 68 68 484 Project Swimming Without Barriers This project gives access to physical activities for disabled people promoting their social inclusion. This is Gender Equity 0 0 2 1 0 3 80 an initiative of FURNAS and the Down Syndrome Society of Rio de Janeiro. There are currently around 40 Nº of actions funded by People people from 18 to 40 years of age in this program, children, youngsters and adults of both sexes, in the MG RJ SP ES GO Total FURNAS Benefitted municipalities of Rio de Janeiro, São Gonçalo and Niterói. Community Production Centers 2 0 1 5 0 8 4,253 Telecenters (FURNAS Digital In 2010, the Olympic Swimming Team of the Project Swimming without Barriers participated in 21 9 10 8 2 50 27,530 Project) tournaments in Brazil and abroad. Among them we should mention the Swimming World Championship Itinerant Library 229 58 135 103 100 625 224,742 (Taiwan), the Brazilian Championship and the Summer National (Portugal). FURNAS Digital Project Corporate Volunteering Program The purpose of this project is to foster digital inclusion for the low income population in rural and To value volunteer work has been an enriching experience since 2002, when “FURNAS in Action urban areas. FURNAS, in partnership with third sector entities, is responsible for equipping teleVolunteering Program” was launched. In 2010, the Corporate Volunteering Program was remodeled in centers, primarily in municipalities benefited from the Light for Everybody program of the Federal order to build awareness in the largest number of collaborators, backing volunteering work in legally Government. established non-profit organizations that focus on social or environmental issues. The policies and projects within volunteer work aim at the Millennium Objectives, as defined by the UNO at the 2000 The 50 telecenters are used on a free basis, and each may have from 5 to 10 PC’s. The project will Summit Conference. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 interconnect the 29 telecenters that should in their turn be connected to the antennas of the Digital Inclusion Program of the Ministry of Communications (GESAC). The highlights in 2010 are framed by Women´s International Day celebration in March, when 14 initiatives took place in several of the Company´s areas in the states of Paraná, São Paulo, Goiás, the Federal District Itinerant Program of Professional Training and Minas Gerais, reaching around 3,430 people; the World Food Day, in October, when three initiatives FURNAS signed a contract with the National Service of Industrial Learning (Senai), thus providing were conducted in the state of Minas Gerais, beneﬁtting around 500 people; and the Think Pink Action compliance with the In-Court Agreement made with the Ministry of Labor for the promotion of courses was conducted, addressing Cachoeira Paulista (SP) women, with the purpose of building awareness and and programs of professional training in those communities neighboring the Company´s installations in providing information on breast cancer prevention. Around 500 women were benefitted. the states of Goiás, Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro. furnas furnas 58 59 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Citizenship Village Project For the past eight years, the Citizenship Village project has sought to foster the practice of citizenship and civil rights among the communities lying in the outskirts of FURNAS installations. This is the result of a partnership with municipal city halls and their secretariats, along with the role played by the Company´s collaborators, who voluntarily build up other partnerships, while planning and conducting initiatives. The Citizenship Village project provides community services in education, health, leisure, culture and citizenship. Documents such as ID, social security number, and voter registration are issued. Legal counseling is provided, group weddings are celebrated, lectures on environmental education, health and women´s rights are held. In the health area, children vaccination drives and blood typing, as well as medical assistance aiming at, among other diseases, diabetes control and the fight against dengue. In 2010, five projects were realized in the municipalities of Alpinópolis and Itumirim (MG), Cachoeira Paulista and Mogi das Cruzes (SP) and Minaçu (GO), involving around 15 thousand people. Citizenship Village Project 2010 Place No. of appointments Month of occurrence Alpinópolis (MG) 9,717 May Itumirim (MG) 5,622 May Cachoeira Paulista (SP) 11,733 June Minaçu (GO) 14,223 June Mogi das Cruzes (SP) 4,161 November Kitchen Gardens in FURNAS installations This project seeks to implement kitchen gardens in the Company´s regional areas in order to contribute with the eradication of hunger and poverty where FURNAS is active in. Production is destined to local public institutions on a free basis, benefitting schools, penitentiaries and nursery schools. In 2010, 5,860 Relationship with other Social Movements people were benefitted by the production output of three kitchen gardens in Minas Gerais and one in São Paulo. Since 2003, FURNAS has established a Work Group to strengthen communication with Dam Affected People Movements (MAB) in order to identify affected families and the compensation they are entitled to. Kitchen gardens in FURNAS installations Serra da Mesa HPP (GO) Place People benefitted An onsite Social Audit identified 129 families affected by Serra da Mesa HPP who have the right to some Mascarenhas de Moraes HPP (MG) 1,290 kind of compensation. FURNAS and CPFL Geração, partners in the HPP, and MAB negotiated compensation Furnas HPP (MG) 3,020 proposals, accepted by 114 families by means of an in-court agreement term dully registered at the Itumbiara HPP (MG) 1,200 Counseling Board of Uruaçu, state of Goiás. Ibiúna SE (SP) 350 Total 5,860 In 2010, those families were compensated with amounts ranging from R$ 18 thousand to R$ 50 thousand. Serra da Mesa and Cana Brava Development Fund “Seedling Farm” Project: production and distribution center for the supply of The Technical and Financial Cooperation Agreement made between MME, Tractebel Energia, CPFL, Sebrae/ community kitchen gardens susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 GO, BID and FURNAS in 2007 established the Regional Development Plan for the implementation of the Lying in an area belonging to Foz do Iguaçú SE, in the state of Paraná, the Seedling Farm Project produces program dubbed “Promotion of Corporate Social Responsibility through the Support to Local Productive and distributes 160 thousand legume and green leaf seedlings yearly for the implementation of kitchen Initiatives in the state of Goiás”, the purpose of which is to foster opportunities of income generation for gardens in public schools, nursery schools, neighborhood associations, penitentiaries and other those families not acknowledged as impacted by Serra da Mesa and Canabrava HPP (owned by Tractebel institutions. In 2010, around 9 thousand people were benefitted. Energia) exposed to social vulnerability in the outskirts of the reservoirs of those power plants. In this fund, FURNAS participates with R$ 700 thousand. furnas furnas 60 61 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY In 2010, the Company agreed to disburse an extra R$ 215 thousand for Sebrae/GO to establish the Furnas Cultural Hall – Public Bidding Olericulture – Vegetable Cultivation Project in Sítio São José, in Minaçú, (GO) in partnership with the In 2010, Furnas Cultural Hall was completely remodeled, which prevented events from taking place. Olericulture Producers Association of Cana Brava, benefitting 100 families. The use of the Cultural Hall, submitted to a bidding process, selected 19 projects in several categories, out of 371, to be exhibited in 2011. In this line, individual projects are also developed with the purpose of complementing the income of needing families and stimulate entrepreneurship. In 2010, 6 extensive poultry farms were made, with Project Category semi-organic grass-fed birds (or relying on poultry feed) and 11 kitchens, which were adapted to or Botequim Exhibition built in households, also equipped for milk processing, benefitting 17 families in the municipality of Campinorte (GO). Concertos de Leo Gandelman Music Sempre um Papo Debate Manso Multi-Purpose Development (MT) X Festival ANIM!ARTE Cinema In compliance with the Global Agreement Term, signed in November 2006 between FURNAS and the Guardiões da Floresta Amazônica Exbition Dam Affected People Movement, the Company has been making monthly payments of Temporary Adoniran Dance Maintenance Contingency to 776 families. In 2010, around R$ 3 million were disbursed. Choro-duetos: Pixinguinha & Benedito Lacerda, com Mário Sève e David Ganc Music Claudio Nucci Music Nossos Contos, Nossas Memórias Exhibition Childhood and Adolescence Fund (FIA) Ana Costa: Novos Alvos Music Lê pra Mim? Literature In 2010, follow up activities reached 13 out of the 22 municipalities contemplated in 2009: Volta Redonda, Re-tocando: Reinventando a Música Erudita Brasileira Music Barra do Pirai, São Gonçalo and Campos de Goytacazes (RJ); São João Del-Rei, Passos, Araguari, Varginha Grupo Patubatê Music and Elói Mendes (MG); São Paulo (SP); Uruaçú and Niquelândia (GO), and Foz do Iguaçú (PR). Through Pequena Loja de Mistérios Theater the Municipal Councils for the Rights of Children and Adolescents, the municipalities made investments toward social projects that benefitted over 5,500 people. A list of projects may be found in Appendix 4.2 O Biricotico: Pessoas Sóbrias são um Porre Exhibition and show (External Social and Sector Indicators). Conversas Inversas, Histórias Diversas Drama Histórias de Terror de Edgar Allan Poe Drama Support to social action 20 Anos sem Cazuza Exhibition and show FURNAS Social Program purpose is to provide support to social actions capable of promoting a better Talvez Drama quality of life of those needing people living in the municipalities where FURNAS is active or where concession for new installations is given. In 2010, as established in Law 11300/06, the Program was not active as it was an electoral year. The 206 institutions benefitted in 2010, distributed according to the area of work in the Company, had already been selected in the 2009 Program. Institutions benefitted by FURNAS Social Program UF DF ES GO MG MT PR RJ SC SP Total N° of benefitted 1 15 17 128 1 6 28 1 9 206 institutions susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 furnas furnas 62 63 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Cultural Sponsorship FURNAS sponsored the following cultural projects under the Rouanet Law: State Project Segment RJ Livro – Theatro Municipal do Rio de Janeiro: História e Memória Humanities RJ Despertar das Artes Arts RJ Concerto Instrumental de Harmônica de Boca Music RJ CD Semba Samba Music RJ/SP Planeta Amazônia Music MG 40º Festival Nacional da Cultura Music / Arts MG Inhotim em Cena Arts SP A Montanha, o Menino e o Divino Audiovisual RO Arte, Cultura e Direitos Humanos para Todos Drama Still under the Rouanet Law, FURNAS participated, through the 2010 Eletrobras System Cultural Program, in the support to the following projects: State Project Segment RJ IV Encontro de Cinema Negro: Brasil, África e Américas Audiovisual RJ Biblioteca de Ritmos Humanities MG Circuito de Encontro de Bandas de Música Minas-Rio-Espírito Arts Santo MG Preservação das Raízes do Pai Arthur Arts Imaterial heritage MG A Folia de Reis em Presidente Olegário SP 21º Festival Internacional de Curtas Metragens de São Paulo Audiovisual GO Lições de Motim Drama Sponsoring events In 2010, FURNAS participated in 29 events, the highlight of which was the “Green Economy Coalition – National Dialogues: Towards Rio+20”, realized in São Paulo and organized by Institute Vitae Civilis. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 furnas furnas 64 65 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Communities assess furnas social programs “Before, my life was all about home and children, I didn´t even think of a job. Now while the children are at school, I’m working”, says this Araçatiba dweller, Rosinea do Nascimento Cristo, the mother of two children and a member of the CosturArt Project, who now considers herself a craftswoman. She learned how to sew, embroidery sewing, work with gems and the basics of knitting. To her though, what is more rewarding is that now she can unfold her creativity. “I’m marveled at how much I can devise and sell my own products now.” Having ten brothers, Rosinéia studied up to the 6th grade, and now she says her dream is to see her children study, graduate and have a job. Maria da Penha Alves’ life also changed dramatically for the better after she joined the project. “This project opened up our minds and gave us self-esteem. Today I have my job, my money, and I take this very seriously, this is not a hobby”, she says. According to her, her husband respects her and admires her work so much that he introduces her as a craftswoman. “The little I know today I learned here with this project. I hope this fruitful work can go on for all of us and that the young show an interest for it”, she muses. If it depends on 18-year-old Anna Angélica Gomes, the project will not run short of youngsters to attend the activities. Since 13, she has attended activities within the project, running short errands. Now she tells how much her life has changed since then. “I was shy and quiet, I didn’t talk with anyone, but I kept watching. Before, I wouldn´t be able to be here and talk. Today I can express Meire Siqueira da Paixão, 42, four children, became a learned seamstress, making school uniforms, myself better, and acquired self-esteem. Here we learn to value ourselves. Before, we were awfully white coats and aprons. According to her, the project has a long life ahead and provides income socially excluded”, she aﬃrms. for several families. “I believe this project may be even more fruitful. We teamwork here and may improve production. All we have to do is advertise ourselves in schools and companies”, she reckons, APM Manso now as a business-oriented seamstress. For 54-year-old Irenita Albina da Silva, life improved only after she moved to the settlement, when she first saw the opportunity to improve her own life and her family’s. “FURNAS came very timely, Ivanil Rita Martins da Silva, 30, two children, who started in the project in 2008, and also learned it was a real bless”, she proclaims. She says that where she lived before was far from everything and sewing: “Besides income, the project built self-esteem in us, and the presence of FURNAS made a did not have a school for her children to attend. “My first three children couldn’t attend school. Now, big diﬀerence. This gives our community a promise for a better future”, she believes. my other children have either finished or are finishing middle school”, says this proud mother of ten children. In the house built by FURNAS, besides sewing machines and silkscreen, the Company also donated equipment and refrigerators for preserving fruit pulp. Fruit pulp is frozen and sold to the susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 National Supply Company (Conab) to supply school cafeterias. That is where Irenita, vice-president of João Carro Community Association, works, preparing fruit pulp such as mango, barabados cherry, avocado and guava, and she also helps with the janitorial work. furnas furnas 66 67 68 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 sOCIETY anD COMMunITY Environmental PerFormance 69 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE Without the awareness of society, there is no Accreditation and audit sustainable development. FURNAS upholds its Environmental Management System (SGA), keeping it in line with ABNT NBR ISO 14001 standards in two sub-stations, namely Ibiúna and Foz do Iguaçú, and also at the Fire Extinguisher Maintenance Center. The Company counts on units whose environmental performance is assessed by compulsory environmental audit in compliance with state legislation as a requisite for the renewal of environmental licensing of: thermal power plants in Campos and Santa Cruz, in the state of Rio de Care for the environment Janeiro, and Foz do Iguaçú and Ivaiporã sub-stations, in the state of Paraná. As a power generation and transmission company, a basic input for economic and social development, FURNAS understands such activities may lead to interferences with the environment, so businesses are Changes addressing environmental improvement conducted with the due respect for the environment and sustainability. To run businesses in a sound way, the Company produced five documents that are the reference for the way businesses are done, “Environmental Package” Project namely the Environmental, Environmental Education, Forest Resources, Water Resources and Waste This project was designed to increment adhesion to environmental management practices. ABNT NBR Management Policies. To find the complete version of these policies, please refer to Appendix 1 (Policies) ISO 14001 related requisites are suggested to the several operational areas of the Company so they may of this Report. be implemented gradually in accordance with priorities, legal demands, and the availability of human and financial resources. FURNAS implements its environmental policies lecturing in the Company´s premises to showcase environmentally-friendly action-taking in line with its principles. A good example is given by the project IGS Project – Social and Environmental Indicators of Eletrobras System Corporate “Environmental Legislation”, implemented in 17 units as a tool to identify the legislation applicable to Sustainability Management the Company´s production processes. The Company´s policies are made public both to the internal and IGS general objectives address the support to Eletrobras and controlled companies sustainability external public in folders, leaflets, on the intranet and on its webpage. management, and the issuance of Eletrobras System and Controlled Companies Sustainability Reports. For that, environmental sustainability indicators in line with the Eletrobras System controlled companies profile were defined in order to be incorporated to the proposed indicators as defined by IGS data bank Environmental Licensing so operation and monitoring may be made more efficiently. The Environmental Follow-up Licensing System (Sala), in operation since 2005, provides for FURNAS Emergency Plan (PAE) employees´ on-line access to information on power plants, sub-stations, and transmission lines In order to prevent those impacts caused by accidents from breaching security levels as established environmental licensing. The system facilitates the control of the processes ruling environmental for operational units, and also to prevent external interferences from worsening emergencies, in 2004 licensing concession and renewal/re-statement informing the expiration date for document production FURNAS established its Emergency Plan (PAE). PAE seeks to assign responsibilities, measures and actionbefore the licensing agencies, which is fundamental for the Company´s regional offices that deal directly taking preventively and correctively in emergency situations so as to prevent or minimize damages to with environmental inspection. people, the environment and equity. In 2010, FURNAS obtained the following licensing: In 2010, all the Company´s installations concluded and revised their PAE. For 2011, specific training for fire brigades and emergency information are planned. Previous Licensing: • 138 kV TL Anta-Simplício-Rocha Leão (Ampla); Investment in protected areas Installation Licensing: The Brazilian environmental legislation ruling environmental compensation stemming from the • 138 kV TL Anta-Simplício-Rocha Leão (Ampla); Company´s installations has been effective since 1987. FURNAS pioneered compliance with it by the • 345kV TL Tijuco Preto-Itapeti; time Serra da Mesa and Corumbá HPP were built, which occurred halfway through the 1980´s. Since Operation Licensing: then, the Company has invested in the consolidation of the conservation units instituted by the Public • 345kV TL Furnas-Pimenta 2; Administration, such as: national, state, and municipal parks, biological reserves, ecological stations susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 • 345kV TL Macaé-Campos 3; and and environmentally protected areas, as well as in native Brazilian reserves as a compensation for the Operation Licensing Re-instatement: implementation of its undertakings. • Viana SE. Investments toward the conservation of biodiversity of Brazilian ecosystems where the Company is active Besides the environmental licenses mentioned, Environmental Certificates were obtained for several has been expressive (Atlantic rain forest and Brazilian savannah), or an area over 1,550 thousand hectares. transmission lines in the state of Rio de Janeiro that do not need to undergo the due operation licensing A complete list of those protected areas that have received funding from FURNAS as an environmental process as they became fully operational before the National Policy on the Environment was issued, as compensation measure may be found in Appendix 5 (Environmental Indicators). listed in Appendix 5 (Environmental Indicators). furnas furnas 70 71 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE Seedling farm License for the right to use water resources FURNAS currently runs seven seedling farms to preserve native species of the biomes where it is active. Total yearly production tops 600 thousand seedlings. Production output in the last three years may be The license for the right to use water resources is one of the tools of the National Policy on Water found in Appendix 5 (Environmental Indicators). Resources. It seeks to safeguard the quantitative and qualitative control of water use and the effective right to its use. Participation in water resource forums Besides ensuring its policy and role in the corporate committee addressing this issue, FURNAS strategy The National Water Agency (ANA) is responsible for issuing the license for the right to use the Union´s is to participate in several water resource forums. In 2010, the Company ran for and was appointed water resources. When the right of use is the states´ or the Federal District´s, the request for the license is unanimously for the Presidency of Rio de Janeiro Water Resource Council, thus attesting the expertise made before the local authorities ultimately responsible for water use management. level of its own water resource management and policies. FURNAS was licensed upon request for the right to use water resources in undertakings that are • Guandu Committee – Guandu river; yet under way, namely Batalha and Simplício HPP´s, and also for the water use in these HPP´s • Middle Paraíba do Sul river Committee; construction sites. • Lower Paraíba do Sul river Committee; • Paraíba do Sul river Hydrographic Basin Integration Committee – CEIVAP; Santa Cruz TPP was licensed by means of ruling laid by the State Superintendent Foundation for Rivers • Paranaíba Committee – Paranaíba river; and Lakes/RJ (Serla); Roberto da Silveira Campos UTE, through a resolution provided by ANA; and Poços • Furnas Reservoir Hydrographic Basin Committee – GD3 – Rio Grande; de Caldas SE, through a ruling of IGAM/MG, and Ibiúna and Itaberá SE´s through a ruling of DAEE/SP. • Middle Rio Grande river Hydrographic Basin Aﬄuent Committee – GD7 – Rio Grande; and • State Council of Water Resources – CERHI/RJ. FURNAS units making use of river basins in the state of Minas Gerais participated in the IGAM/MG ´s drive “Water: Use it the Legal Way”. In 2010, FURNAS was licensed to use water resources for aquiculture in dug-in tanks at the Hydrobiology Multiple use Station and Fish-farm. Reservoir operation and flood control The hydraulic operation of reservoir systems does not only refer to power optimization, but also to the multiple uses of water. Among them, flood control in freshwater-bearing reservoirs is of utmost importance for communities. Hydraulic operation studies addressing reservoir flood control within the National Interconnected System (SIN) are developed by the National Electricity System Operator (ONS) together with those agents ultimately responsible for power generation. The Annual Plan for Flood Prevention (PAPC) determines reservoir space, part of the useful volume of reservoirs holding below the maximum normal operation levels, to benchmark flood control. Said volumes depend on those restrictions usually stemming from irregular usage of river banks downstream the Company´s installations. Such restrictions, notwithstanding the impact they cause on SIN power operation, are revised on a yearly basis. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 furnas furnas 72 73 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE Royalties for the Use of Water Resources (CFURH) Ichthyofauna conservation and monitoring During the lifetime of hydroelectric undertakings most relevant economic impacts refer to the payment In the Company´s power plants, ichthyofauna monitoring is done under two scopes. The first one of royalties for the use of water resources. In 2010, the Federal District and 138 municipalities of the states checks the efficacy of stocking hatchery-produced fish in Rio Grande and Paranaíba river basins by the of Goiás (31) Minas Gerais (76), Mato Grosso (2), Rio de Janeiro (2) and São Paulo (27) were paid royalties Hydrobiology and Fishery Station, corresponding to: Furnas, Mascarenhas de Morais, Luiz Carlos Barreto corresponding to Serra da Mesa, Corumbá, Furnas, Mascarenhas de Morais, Luiz Carlos Barreto, Porto de Carvalho, Porto Colômbia, Marimbondo and Itumbiara power plants. Fish stocking is preceded by Colômbia, Manso, Marimbondo, Itumbiara and Funil power plants, as shown in the table below. fry production of those species indigenous to the river basins where reservoirs were formed, among them the dourado (Salminus brasiliensis), curimbatá (Prochilodus lineataus), pacu caranha (Piaractus mesopotamicus), piau (Cichla cf.monoculus), piapara (Leporinus obtusidens), piracanjuba (Brycon CFURH Royalties paid oﬀ in 2010 orbignyanus), jaú (Paulicea lutkeni), pintado (Pseudoplatystoma fasciatum), and trairão (Hoplias lacerdae). % State Amount (R$) In 2010, around 267 thousand fry were produced. DF 8 thousand RJ 1.698 million For mediumand long-term efficacy check on stocking hatchery-produced fish realized since 1976, MT 831 thousand studies on the composition, distribution, and biological profile of the species living in the reservoirs States (45%) SP 8.956 million have been continuously conducted. GO 21.435 million MG 39.781 million The second scope of ichthyofauna monitoring concerns new undertakings whose areas of influence are States Total (45%) 72.710 million studied before, during, and after the filling of the reservoirs. Such monitoring programs not only follow Municipalities Total (45%) 72.710 million up closely changes in the composition and structure of fish communities, but also plot and assess the MMA* (3%) 4.847 million importance of spawning, growth and nursery areas; assess how much power plant implementation Union (10%) MME (3%) 4.847 million and operation inﬂuence the life cycle of the main species prevailing in the region; and promote the FNDCT (4%) 6.463 million most sound measures for maintaining species diversity and fishing resources. Union – Total 16.158 million ANA – Total 20.197 million Simplício HPP environmental programs CFURH – Total 181.775 million *MMA – National Policy of Water Resources and National System of Water Resources Twenty eight environmental programs are being conducted in order to mitigate and/or compensate Management under the discretion of the National Water Agency (ANA). the impacts stemming from the construction of Simplício HPP. Foremost among them are the programs of Ichthyofauna Conservation and Monitoring, Fauna Rescue and Monitoring, Flora Conservation and Vegetation Restoration, Social Communication, Environmental Education, and Infrastructure Limnologic monitoring Reassessment and Relocation. FURNAS current Limnologic Monitoring and Water Control (SMLQA) System inspects ten reservoirs Fauna Rescue and Monitoring Program accompanies vegetation suppression activities to ensure that in operation and two under construction. On the whole, an average 5,500 km2 area is monitored, the wildlife dwelling in the areas to be deforested may spontaneously move elsewhere, also monitoring corresponding to over 500 soccer fields, or a volume of approximately 130 km3, which is 70 times the total wildlife in the area of influence of the undertaking. In a two-year period, the program conducted 17 field volume of Guanabara bay (RJ). The number of sampling points and timing of the sampling campaign of campaigns where 396 species were found, or 41 amphibians, 26 reptiles, 62 mammals, and 268 birds. Out each power plant may be found in Appendix 5 (Environmental Indicators). of them, 17 species are listed as endangered species, locally, domestically or globally, one of which is a reptile, nine are mammals and seven are bird species. The Ichthyofauna Conservation and Monitoring Program has promoted the rescue of 8,824 fishes of 43 different species since its onset. In 2010, 10 campaigns were realized, registering the occurrence of 88 fish species in the area of influence of the undertaking. The Ichthyofauna Conservation and Monitoring susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Program also foresees a fish transposition system at Anta Dam, thus allowing for the migration of fish schools upstream during the spawning period. The Flora Conservation and Vegetation Re-composition Program not only surveys the species occurring in the area of influence of the undertaking and plant rescue, but it will also promote the re-vegetation of over 1,340 hectares on the reservoir border. To do so, FURNAS built a seedling nursery capable of producing approximately 100 thousand Atlantic Rainforest seedlings. furnas furnas 74 75 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE The Fauna Conservation Program is responsible for species inventory before the onset of the construction works. When construction is concluded, monitoring is conducted so as to provide the due follow-up on affected species and establish measures to recover and protect said species. The reservoir Border Conservation Plan seeks to conciliate human use of the reservoir and marginal areas with the power plant´s operating norms, and also with the conservation of local ecosystems and the drainage areas as a whole. Native Brazilian Guarani Community Environmental Recovery and Self-sustainability Project in the Municipality of São Paulo The Native Brazilian Guarani Community Environmental Recovery and Self-sustainability Project in the Municipality of São Paulo has been a partnership with FUNAI since 2004 as an outcome of the implementation of the 750 kV Itaberá-Tijuco Preto III TL. Since its onset, 246 families have been the focus of activities developed in household backyards and community-shared land. Kitchen gardens, nurseries, orchards, seedling nurseries of ornamental plants, henhouses, sowed land and also landscaping activities were realized, while in community-shared land investments were made toward agricultural and forest development. For this project to be developed, native Brazilian communities were rallied in with the due respect for their own principles of authority acknowledgement, decision-making processes and traditions, such as their land management techniques. FURNAS, in its turn, provided technical follow-up through an agronomy engineer, a biologist and an anthropologist, besides furnishing all the equipment, material, fertilizers and seedlings necessary for the execution of planned activities. Among the initiatives of the Infrastructure Reassessment and Relocation Program, which should contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of the dwellers in the outskirts of the undertaking, Already during the execution of the project, an improvement in the living conditions of the local native emphasis should be given to the removal of Anta landfill and the establishment of a sanitary landfill in Brazilian population was observed, as reported by physicians working in the village. The number of the municipality of Sapucaia, with a 15-year operating lifetime. Anta landfill was the site of deployment undernourished children also declined dramatically as calorie intake was upped by an enriched diet of domestic garbage bearing no sanitary control whatsoever. Because it lay in an area of the future based on green leaves and fruits sowed in the kitchen gardens and orchards made by the project. reservoir, removal was mandatory. Transference of the landfill waste to Sapucaia sanitary landfill started in November 2010 and should be concluded before the filling of Anta reservoir. Activities conducted by the Social Communication Program such as community visits to the power plant Expropriated land construction site addressed over 6,000 people. Building new undertakings provokes changes in land dwelling as well as changes in the lifestyle of entire populations. FURNAS respects constitutional rights safeguarding land title deeds and fair compensation, besides complying with environmental and land legislation in reservoir land partition processes and Batalha environmental programs compensation for the right of way in transmission line routing. For the construction of Batalha HPP, twenty three environmental programs are being conducted such as In conducting land negotiations with land owners and those who do not have a land deed, the Company the Hydrodynamic Behavior of Water Table, Fauna Conservation, and the Reservoir Border Conservation respects local traditions, culture and social relationships, and seeks to orient all those involved in terms susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Plan, among others. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 of future prospects. The Hydrodynamic Behavior of Water Table Program characterizes water resources, springs, and In the legal expropriation process, FURNAS prioritizes land acquisition through out-of-court agreements, the inventory of wells on the reservoir border. Also, occasional changes in the use of land and likely as was the case of the majority of real estate negotiated in 2010. The table below breaks down the real outcomes are assessed. Knowledge acquired on local hydro-geological conditions permits a preestate negotiated in 2010. assessment of how much filling the reservoir will influence the surrounding land, thus furnishing data to monitor the filling process and the preventive, corrective and mitigating measures in human dwellings and farming activities. furnas furnas 76 77 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE Real estate status per installation Waste management Resettled families Acquired real estate until 2010 Total real Discarding askarel residue Undertaking % of out % of estate Resettled As determined by the legislation, all equipment using insulating oil polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), Total until Total of court in-court 2010 agreements agreements known as askarel, is being replaced at the end of its life cycle. Through a public bidding process, FURNAS Simplício HPP 281 143 115 240 88.0 12.0 hires specialized companies and holders of environmental licenses for the activities for decontamination Anta / Simplício TL 26 0 0 9 62.0 31.0 of transformers and incineration of hazardous waste. Simplício / Rocha Leão TL 256 2 0 141 74.1 15.7 Batalha HPP 456 175 0 406 85.0 15.0 In 2010, 10,650 kg worth of waste were discarded at Furnas and Marimbondo HPP´s, Santa Cruz TPP, and Jacarepaguá and Vitória SE’s. Total amount of askarel discarded in the last four years may be found in 138 kV Batalha / Paracatu 1 TL 121 0 0 30 53.0 47.0 Appendix 5 (Environmental Indicators). 345 kV Tijuco Preto / Itapeti TL 18 2 0 17 94.5 5.5 345 kV Itapeti / Nordeste TL 230 23 0 16 0.43 6.9 Mineral insulating oil and hydraulic oil 500 kV Bom Despacho 3 / FURNAS attempts to regenerate the largest amount of mineral insulating oil of transformers by means of 488 2 0 0 0 0 Ouro Preto 2 TL physical-chemical treatment. When this recovery becomes technically unfeasible, the oil is sold in public auctions. Sale is made exclusively to refiners accredited by the National Agency of Petroleum (ANP), as stipulated by rulings no. 127, of 7/30/1999, and no. 128, of 8/28/2001. As for hydraulic oil, whose use is Industrial and sanitary eﬄuent emission management marginal, residue is sold together with insulating mineral oil which cannot be regenerated. FURNAS monitors industrial liquid effluents in its operational units in order to meet the standards laid down by Resolution CONAMA 357. Sale of insulating and hydraulic oil Year Volume (thousand liters) Analysis is conducted in the Company’s own laboratories, either accredited by environmental agencies 2010 765 or by outsourced laboratories. 2009 173 2008 530 The control and monitoring of equipment installed at the Company’s operational units referring to industrial effluent processes, sewage treatment stations, tailings, water/oil separator boxes (SAO), Fluorescent lamps chemical disposal neutralizing tanks and press filter occur through laboratory analysis established in For the discharge of fluorescent lamps, used or broken, public biddings are held in order to hire an accordance with the monitoring plan. accredited company to be held responsible for their adequate handling and disposal. The company has been standardizing the methodologies according to standards established by the applicable law to ensure both reliability of analysis results and reduce the cost of processes, besides Discarded lamps forming a data base that will be used by all FURNAS’ laboratories. Year Product Number / Weight 2010 Used fluorescent lamps 14,150 Broken fluorescent lamps 300 kg Potable water management 2009 Used fluorescent lamps* 11,725 Broken fluorescent lamps* 170 kg Water quality control and monitoring for human use meets the standards established by ANVISA 518 2008 Used fluorescent lamps 11,805 Ruling. FURNAS has conventional water treatment stations and artesian wells in its installations which Broken fluorescent lamps 170 kg operate according to specific standards and norms. Monitoring is also made through laboratory analysis * Figures revised and corrected in relation to the figures shown in the 2009 as outlined in the monitoring plan. Report. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Laboratories FURNAS laboratory network carries out quality tests on effluents and potable water and may be summarized as follows: Support and Technical Control Department of Water Quality Laboratories (GO), from the Santa Cruz Thermal Power Plant (RJ) and Ibiúna Substation (SP) and Foz do Iguaçu (PR) and the Limnologic and Water Quality Laboratory of the Furnas Hydroelectric Power Plant (MG). furnas furnas 78 79 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE Batteries Batteries started being sold from November 2008 on. Public bidding processes require that companies be accredited by the due environmental agencies. In previous years, batteries were returned to the manufacturers without costs for FURNAS. The table below shows the number of batteries sold in public auctions in the last three years. Batteries sold at public auctions Year Alkalyne batteries Lead acid batteries (Number) (Number) 2010 514 2009 366 83 2008 566 170 Scrap material Scrap material in FURNAS comes basically from construction work, maintenance or equipment replacement, modernization or premises de-commissioning. Scrap material sold at auctions Material (t) 2010 2009 2008 Iron scrap 268 438 486 Plain copper/brass scrap 51 81 53 Amount of waste donated (t) Aluminum and aluminum Material 2010 2009 2008 44.7 33 74 cable with steel core scrap Paper 93.56 113.55 48.63 Copper and aluminum Plastic 11.02 20.41 3.53 23 46 28 insulated cable scrap Metal 86.65 55.18 6.44 Total 386.7 598 641 Glass 0.23 1.61 0.02 Note: 2008 – Collection made at the Central Oﬃce, Itumbiara HPP, Ivaiporã, Foz do Iguaçu and Poços de Caldas SE´s; Other industrial residues 2009 – Collection made at the Central Office, Itumbiara, Furnas, Funil, Manso and Corumbá HPP´s, Santa Cruz TPP, Other residues produced by operations and maintenance activities such as gravel, and fabric impregnated and Ivaiporã, Foz do Iguaçu, Poços de Caldas, Cachoeira Paulista, Tijuco Preto, Bandeirantes, Brasília Sul and Brasília with hydraulic oil and grease are disposed of in industrial landfills or are used in industrial co-processing Geral SE´s, and at the Soil and Concrete Laboratories; 2010 – Collection made at the Central Oﬃce, Itumbiara, Furnas, Funil, Manso, Corumbá, Luiz Carlos Barreto, and Masca¬renhas de Moraes HPP´s, Santa Cruz TPP, Ivaiporã, Foz do waste (e.g., cement plants) through legally authorized companies with expertise to do so. Iguaçu, Poços de Caldas, Cachoeira Paulista, Tijuco Preto, Bandeirantes, Brasília Sul, Brasília Geral, Jacarepaguá, Vitória, São José and Imbariê SE´s, and at the Soil and Concrete Laboratories. Selective waste collection program The “Solidarity and Waste Collection” program conforms to Decree 5940/06, which establishes that Vegetable oil recyclable residues disposed of by both the direct and indirect federal and public administration In 2010, 3,680 liters worth of vegetable oil used in the Central Office´s cafeteria were donated to the Rio authorities be destined to associations and cooperatives of garbage collectors. de Janeiro State Vegetable Oil Re-utilization Program (Prove). The purpose of this program is to improve the environmental conditions of the state of Rio de Janeiro by turning residual oil into strategic raw To implement the program employees were trained, especially those in janitorial positions who deal material for the pioneering processing of biodiesel, thus contributing to job and income generation with disposed waste on a daily basis. and to the Brazilian Biodiesel Program. Prove is composed of several co-ops that are prompted to collect susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 domestic residual oil at collecting points destined to biodiesel processing. The program is currently available in seven HPP, Santa Cruz TPP, 13 substations, the Central Office in Rio de Janeiro, Brasília, the Federal District, and at the Soil and Concrete Laboratories. furnas furnas 80 81 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE Environmental education External public The relationships the Company has with the external public in terms of environmental education are FURNAS conducts a series of environmental education activities for both the internal and external public. usually associated with the educational programs put in place for undertakings under construction or environmental licensing processes, and also the energy conservation program. Those programs are Internal public usually developed in partnership with state and municipal education secretaries and non-governmental Environmental education activities address both FURNAS employees and outsourced personnel as well. organizations, and are based on teaching/learning processes that meet the National Policy of Special attention is given to those directly involved with new undertakings, either in the construction Environmental Education. The programs are devised and conducted with the due participation of sites or in regional offices. Educational lectures seek to clear up matters concerning the workers manuals communities, safeguarding the mobilization and qualification of the target public, namely the population or code of conduct, selective waste collection, safety, and quality of life, and also to spread respect for directly affected by the undertaking and those workers hired in the construction sites. the environment. Pedagogical materials are manuals, leaflets, and folders, among others. At Batalha HPP, besides the so-called Daily Expert Dialogues with workers, workshops and sketches depicting issues concerning the workers code of conduct were conducted in an amusing and participative way. Around Programs associated to environmental licensing processes 1,200 workers were the focus of these activities. Environmental education programs associated to licensing processes for undertakings under construction or installments under environmental licensing processes developed until 2010 are shown below: Round of Lectures The purpose of the Round of Lectures is to provide environmental and best practice • UHE Batalha – Integrated Center of Environmental Education (CIEA) information and disseminate it in the Company´s operational areas. Lectures are also held Batalha HPP Environmental Education Program received the 8th Crea Goiás Environment Award in events such as: the Internal Week of Health, Safety and Environment (SISSMA) and the in 2009 for the best Environmental Education program. This program promotes qualification Internal Week of Workplace Accident Prevention (SIPAT). courses for 80 teachers of the public educational system of Cristalina (GO) and Paracatu (MG). Subjects taught are environmental sanitation, solid waste, biodiversity, land use and occupation, In April 2010, the 1st Environmental Forum took place in Goiânia, rallying 80 employees and and culture and society. In 2010, 1,700 people, among school principals, teachers and students lecturers from several of the Company´s areas and also from other institutions. attended the courses offered by the Integrated Center of Environmental Education (CIEA). So far, 3,080 people have attended educational activities at CIEA. In August 2010, the 2nd Environmental Forum was promoted in Minas Gerais with the purpose of showcasing and debating environmental issues, with an emphasis on environmental • Simplício HPP legislation compliance and the integrated action-taking in the environmental and operating The 19 events promoted by the Environmental Education Program, where recycled paper areas. The event was attended by 69 people. manufacture and ecological soap production were the issues addressed, along with story-telling and re-use of PET bottles, were attended by 1,212 people. • Itumbiara HPP – Project Horizons: Environmental Education, Dialogue and Development Project Horizons provided 40-hour qualification courses on water, garbage, health, development, land, food safety, local resources, biodiversity, conservation units and “horizons”. This former one addressing recommendations for the municipality having the subjects taught as a start point. From January to May 2010, seven groups of students were contemplated in the municipalities of Cumari, Goiandira, Catalão, Nova Aurora, Caldas Novas, Tupaciguara and Uberlândia. There were teachers from public and private schools, health professionals and environmentalists, community leaders, university students, mailpersons, business people, municipal guards and highway patrollers, among others, and also opinion makers such as journalists and radio speakers. A total of 672 people participated, attending at least two courses, and 378 were certified at the end of the process. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 In 2010, Project Horizons received an award for the Best Environmental Education Program at the 5th Prêmio Brasil de Meio Ambiente (Brazil Environmental Award) promoted by Jornal do Brasil, JB Ecological Newsletter and Gazeta Mercantil. Project Horizons was selected for a case study at the Diplomado en Gestión Estratégica de la RSE, organized by the Centro Regional para América Latina y el Caribe en Apoyo al Pacto Mundial de Naciones Unidas, in October 2010. furnas furnas 82 83 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE Main indicators of environmental education programs addressing energy conservation Environmental education programs addressing energy conservation Ongoing programs 2010 2009 2008 Environmental education programs addressing energy conservation, realized on an ongoing No. of people attending seminars 115 10 245 basis, are shown as follows: No. of teachers 275 206 1,122 Nature of the Landscape No. of students trained by their own • The Nature of Landscape: Energy Energy – A Life Resource 24,750 18,540 264,091* teachers This environmental education program is developed by the National Electricity Conservation No. of schools involved 36 69 416 Program (PROCEL) and is implemented by power generation companies and concessionaries, No. of municipalities involved 8 5 90 addressing teachers of the public school system. Schools are given didactic material in order to No. of students qualified 45,809 45,106 54,311 put the projects in practice together with students. This is a partnership between FURNAS and FURNAS / PROCEL in Schools No. of adults qualified 3,991 1,167 4,399 the Municipal Education Secretaries of the municipalities of Duas Barras, Trajano de Moraes and Rio das Ostras. In 2010, 43 schools participated and 149 teachers were qualified. FURNAS for the Children of No. of students qualified 0 37 286 Employees No. of students qualified 825 4,741 8,812 • FURNAS / PROCEL in Schools Energy Circuit No. of teachers qualified 50 66 502 Lectures for students conducted at the Company’s facilities. Information is provided on energy conservation as well as suggestions on how to save energy at home. Activities No. of students qualified 390 898 2,861 Energy Patrol were developed in Rio de Janeiro and in the municipality of Três Rios in partnership with No. of teachers qualified 119 66 425 schools and the Social Service of Commerce (SESC). In 2010, 45,809 students attended the No. of people in awareness building Awareness building events 294,522 110,016 204,573 activities activities. Total No. of people 370,846 180,853 541,627 • Energy Circuit * Until 2007, FURNAS used Eletrobras´estimates: “each qualified teacher could reach and train around 90 Experiments, models and games addressing electric energy are produced for students students”. From 2008 on, FURNAS started to count the number of students effectively trained in schools. of the public school system in the state of Rio de Janeiro so they may experience how important electric energy is. In 2010, 825 students attended this activity. Technical Activities addressing energy conservation • Energy Patrol Students are qualified to combat the waste of energy at school and in their communities. Projects and actions toward energy eﬃciency The project is executed in Rio de Janeiro schools. In 2010, 390 students were qualified. Revamping 198 energy outlets at the Central Oﬃce corresponded to investments of R$ 164 thousand, reducing costs by 80%, or 6.7 MWh/year, or savings worth R$ 3 thousand. • Energy of Wisdom Lectures focusing on senior citizens, building awareness in them in order to avoid the Energy diagnostics waste of electric energy and water, thus stressing responsible consumption. Part of the There were 27 energy diagnostic assessments that were performed in schools, public buildings addressed audience is made of illiterate people and people who were not given this and at the water supply and sewer system in the states where FURNAS has its facilities or projects information in their school days. This is a co-joint work between FURNAS and Municipal under way. The studies identified 360.50 MWh/year of potential savings and 166.40 kW of potential Education Secretaries, Municipal Public Welfare Secretaries, SESC and universities. This demand reduction. project is conducted in Rio de Janeiro, and in the municipalities of Mangaratiba, Rio das Ostras, Bom Jardim, Niterói and Brasília. In 2010 alone, 714 people attended the lectures. Public lighting projects In 2010, two new contracts were made with the National Program for Efficient Public Illumination, • FURNAS in Libraries ReLuz, for projects in the municipalities of Jataí and Anápolis, in Goiás. Besides those projects, nine Activities consist of story-telling, games and role-playing activities realized in municipal others are being analyzed by Eletrobras, concerning the funding of improvements in the public libraries. At the end of activities, students are given books to foster reading habits among illumination in the states of Goiás and Rio de Janeiro. them. This project is a result of a partnership with the Municipal Secretaries of Education of susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Rio de Janeiro, Bom Jardim, Rio das Ostras and Brasília. In 2010, 445 students participated. furnas furnas 84 85 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE Atmospheric emission inventory Thermal Power Plants The role of thermal plants in the Brazilian integrated system is to meet the call for supply in times of draught in dryer seasons, thus safeguarding power supply. If hydroelectric plants can fully operate, thermal plants remain dormant. The volume of atmospheric emissions, therefore, depends on the season, type of fuel and the productive process in use. FURNAS carries out a periodic inventory of atmospheric emissions of thermal plants in conformity with the Self Control Program of Atmospheric Emissions (Procon Ar) of the Environment State Institute, the environmental agency of Rio de Janeiro. The expansion of Santa Cruz Thermal Power Plant forecasts a combined-cycle operation, whose main component is a gas generator capable of recovering part of the exhaustion gases of gas turbines, incrementing thermal efficiency dramatically. Combined-cycle is the most environmentally-friendly initiative in thermal plants as this system allows for the emission of lesser pollutants per kWh. Combined-cycle at Santa Cruz Thermal Power Plant still depends on commissioning yet to be realized, which is expected in 2012 as gas is not currently an available raw material. The two new units run open-cycle operations using special diesel, with less polluting features. As the combined-cycle starts operating, Santa Cruz Thermal Plant should increase efficiency, from 31% to 54%. An air quality and meteorology parameter station is being commissioned in the municipality of Seropédica, in Rio de Janeiro. The data to be produced should back the State’s environmental agency in this municipality. SF6 Recovery Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) is used as a dielectric (insulator) in high voltage circuit breakers and shielded substations. This gas has a very high global warming potential, 23 thousand times higher than carbon dioxide – CO2. In 2007, FURNAS started a SF6 recovery and treatment program in circuit breakers and busbars shielded barrel maintenance activities. In 2010, new recovery equipment was purchased, thus reducing annual SF6 consumption from 6 t in 2009 to 5 t in 2010. Vehicle fleet control Atmospheric emissions of the Company’s fleet seek to conform to the current Brazilian legislation. The table below shows the data on the Company’s fleet fuel consumption. Company’s fleet fuel consumption (liters) Type of fuel 2010 2009 2008 Non renewable susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Diesel 1,301,615 895,541 930,054 Gas 1,026,153 610,932 672,068 Renewable Alcohol 20,536 16,774 8,848 furnas Inventário de gases de efeito estufa furnas 86 87 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE Greenhouse Gases Inventory The data on partial GEE Inventory for 2008, 2009 and 2010 are as follows: FURNAS developed data collection software to quantify its greenhouse gases emissions (GEE), the so2008 2009 2010 Assignment 1 called Greenhouse Gases Inventory Support System (SAIGEE). Available on the Company´s intranet, Stable Sources 154,946 t CO2e 1,947.00 t CO2e 2,546 t CO2e SAIGEE provides for the follow-up of the enormous amount of data on the Company´s several units Moving Sources 3,658 t CO2e 2,278.44 t CO2e 5,483 t CO2e – hydroelectric power plants, thermal power plants, substations, rep oﬃces and construction sites. Fugitive Emissions 142,819 t CO2e 110,511.60 t CO2e 93,662 t CO2e Assignment 2 In 2008, FURNAS adhered to the Brazilian Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Program Protocol, which seeks to Power Grid 2,301 t CO2e 714.50 t CO2e 3,993 t CO2e promote voluntary greenhouse gas emission inventory on the part of the member organizations. After being concluded, FURNAS GEE Inventory Report for 2010 was made available on the Company´s GEE emissions concerning assignment 3 are not yet available. website, at www.ghgprotocolbrasil.com.br, the same way 2009 and 2008 reports were. In December 2010, a training course on GEE Inventory was held in Rio de Janeiro, which was attended Since 2008, as the GEE inventory report started being produced, FURNAS was able to realize that the by the Company´s all units representatives. The training provided conceptual information on SAIGEE main sources of GEE emissions related to its thermal plants and the use of insulating gas hexafluoride quantification methodologies and prototype. (SF6) in high voltage circuit breakers and at Grajaú SE (the only shielded substation in FURNAS System). According to the responsibilities assigned by the Brazilian Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Program Data provided on the use of fossil fuel, electric energy and certain gases used (SF6), refrigeration and Protocol, FURNAS Greenhouse Gases was structured according with the picture below: air conditioned) is a fundamental part in the process as without said information it is not possible to quantify emissions in CO2 ton equivalent, the international unit for GEE Inventory. Once all the General view of the responsibilities assigned and emissions in the value chain Company´s GEE emissions are traced, it will be possible to manage them, and thus implement strategies to reduce them. The Company´s GEE Inventory report is being strengthened every year. Out of the 35 companies in the Brazilian Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Program Protocol, FURNAS is one of the four companies in the Brazilian power industry sector to publish GEE Inventory. Because it is specifically a “carbon management” activity, FURNAS partakes in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) by annually filling in the appropriate data form. FURNAS is aware of all the risks and opportunities inherent to climate change. Regulatory risks and business opportunities are being currently assessed, being Greenhouse Gas Inventory the utmost • Assignment 1 – Direct emissions (stable sources, moving source, and fugitive emissions); tool to manage GEE emissions. • Assignment 2 – Emissions from the power grid; and susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 • Assignment 3 – Other indirect emissions. furnas furnas 88 89 90 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 EnVIrOnMEnTaL PErfOrManCE GRI TaBle IBase Balance 91 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE GrI Table Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Global Compact Page Principles Global Report parameters Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Reporting period 3.1 Directive Strategy and analysis From January to December 2010 Statement from the most senior Date of most recent previous report 1.1 6.2 6 decision-maker of the organization (if any) 3.2 Description of key impacts, risks and 2009 1.2 6.2 55, 61 and 89 opportuinities Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Organizational profile 3.3 Annual Name of the Organization 2.1 FURNAS Centrais Elétricas S.A. Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Primary brands, products, and/or 2.2 9 services 3.4 Roberto Bandeira de Mello Filho – Annual Report Assessoria de Promoção da Cidadania Operational structure of the (Company´s Business, Empresarial robertob@furnas.com.br organization, including main divisions, 2.3 6.2 Evolution of Electgric 55 21 2528-2598 operating companies, subsidiaries, and Installations in joint ventures Operation) 3.5 Process for defining report content 9 Location of organization’s headquarters Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, 2.4 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Rio de Janeiro joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of In the case of SPEs, the undertakings countries with either major operations 3.6 selected were those with the or that are specifically relevant to the most significant impacts toward 2.5 sustainability issues covered in the sustainability and where FURNAS report responsibility concerns the execution of proprietary engineering services Every operating unit (including those such as land and environmental under construction) are localized in the management Brazilian territory State any specific limitations on the Nature of ownership and legal form 3.7 9 scope or boundary of the report 2.6 Mix private/state-owned company Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Markets served (incluiding geographic outsourced operations, and other Annual Report (Energy entities that can significantly affect 2.7 site, industry sectors na types of clients Commercialization) comparability from period to period and benefitiaries) and/or between organizations 20, A11 and A39 3.8 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Annual Report (Main In the case of SPEs, the undertakings Indicators) selected were those with the most significant impacts toward Significant changes during the reporting sustainability and where FURNAS susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 2.9 period regarding size, structure, or 20 and A39 responsibility concerns the execution ownership of proprietary engineering services such as land and environmental Awards received in the reporting management 2.10 21 and 34 period furnas furnas 92 93 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Global Global Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Principles Data measurement techniques and Linkage between compensation for the bases of calculations, including members of the highest governance assumptions and techniques body, senior managers, and executives underlying estimations applied to the 4.5 (including departure arrangements), 6.2 A12 3.9 compilation of the Indicators and other and the organization’s performance information in the report (including social and environmental performance) Every accounting figure in this Report was previously audited as shown in the Annual Reportl Processes in place for the highest Financials in 2010 Annual Report (Corporate Governance 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of 6.2 Structure – Board of Explanation of the effect of any interest are avoided Directors) re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the Process for determining the qualifications 79, 112, A15 to A20, A39 Annual Report 3.10 reasons for such re-statement (e.g., and expertise of the members of the and A41 (Corporate Governance mergers/ acquisitions, change of base 4.7 highest governance body for guiding 6.2 Structure – Board of years/periods, nature of business, the organization’s strategy on economic, Directors) measurement methods) environmental, and social topics Significant changes from previous Internally developed statements of reporting periods in the scope, mission or values, codes of conduct, 3.11 9 31 and A2 to A8 boundary, or measurement 4.8 and principles relevant to economic, 6.2 methods applied in the report environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Table identifying the location of the 3.12 7.5.3 92 Standard Disclosures in the report Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s Policy and current practice with regard identification and management of to seeking external assurance for the economic, environmental, and social report Annual Report 3.13 4.9 performance, including relevant risks 6.2 (Corporate Governance) The Company´s Sustainability Report is and opportunities, and adherence or not submitted to external audit compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and Governance, commitments and engagement principles Governance structure of the Commitments to external initiatives organization, including committees 26 and A9 under the highest governance body Processes for evaluating the highest 4.1 6.2 Annual Report responsible for specific tasks, such governance body’s own performance, (Corporate Governance) as setting strategy or organizational particularly with respect to economic, oversight environmental, and social performance IIndicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also 4.10 There is no formal self-evaluation 6.2 an executive officer (and, if so, their process. The Administration and 4.2 6.2 A13 Supervisory Board meet on a function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this monthly basis to inspect all levels arrangement) of management and assess the compliance with both legislation and For organizations that have a unitary the Company´s by-laws Annual Report board structure, state the number of (Corporate Governance Explanation of whether and how the 4.3 members of the highest governance 6.2 Structure – Board of 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is 6.2 71, 74, 75, 78, 79 and 86 body that are independent Directors) addressed by theorganization and/or non-executive members susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Mechanisms for shareholders Annual Report Externally developed economic, and employees to provide (Governance Structureenvironmental, and social charters, 4.4 6.2 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to 6.2 6, 9, 20 and 21 recommendations or direction to the Shareholders´General highest governance body Meeting) which the organization subscribes or endorses furnas furnas 94 95 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Global Global Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Principles Memberships in associations (such as Significant financial assistance received industry associations) and/or national/ from government 72 EC4 international advocacy organizations in Annual Report FURNAS receives no fiancial assistance which the organization: (Relationship with from government 4.13 • Has positions in governance bodies 6.2 International Entities of • Participates in projects or committees the Energy Sector) Market Presence • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues or Range of ratios of standard entry level • Views membership as strategic wage compared to local minimum 6.4.4 EC5 6 A15 wage at significant locations of 6.8 Stakeholder Engagement operation List of stakeholder groups engaged by 6.6.6 4.14 6.2 28 and 29 the organization Policy, practices, and proportion of 6.8 EC6 spending on locally-based suppliers at 53 Basis for identification and selection of 6.8.5 4.15 6.2 28 and 33 significant locations of operation stakeholders with whom to engage 6.8.7 Approaches to stakeholder Procedures for local hiring and engagement, including frequency 4.16 6.2 28 to 33 proportion of senior management of engagement by type and by 6.8 hired from the local community at stakeholder group EC7 6.8.5 6 53 locations of significant operation Key topics and concerns that have 6.8.7 The Company hires only by means of been raised through stakeholder civil service exams engagement, and how the 4.17 6.2 33 organization has responded to those Indirect economic impacts key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 6.3.9 6.8 Indicator Economic performance Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 6.8.3 Direct economic value generated and provided primarily for public benefit 6.8.4 distributed, including revenues, 6.8 EC8 1 55 through commercial, inkind, or pro 6.8.5 operating costs, employee 6.8.3 Annual Report bono engagement EC1 compensation, donations and other (Statement of Value 6.8.6 community investments, retained 6.8.7 Added) 6.8.7 earnings, and payments to capital 6.8.9 6.8.9 providers and governments 6.3.9 Financial implications and other risks 6.6.6 EC2 and opportunities for the organization’s 6.5.5 7 88 activitiesdue to climate change 6.6.7 Understanding and describing 6.7.8 Coverage of the organization’s defined significant indirect economic impacts, EC9 6.8 9 55 benefit plan obligations including the extent of impacts 6.8.5 6.8.6 FURNAS sponsors the Real Grandeza Foundation (www.frg.com.br), whose 6.8.7 main objective is to complement 6.8.9 retirement pensions, and the payment EC3 of pensions in two different retirement 1 Environmental performance indicators plans: Defined Benefit Plan, housing 3,587 active participants and 6,675 Materials benefitted members (5,462 retirees susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 6.5 and 1,213 pension holders) and the EN1 Materials used by weight or volume A30 6.5.4 Defined Contribution Plan, housing 2,230 active participants and 28 Percentage of materials used that are benefitted members (retirees and recycled input materials 6.5 pension holders) EN2 55 The Company does not reuse recycled 6.5.4 materials furnas furnas 96 97 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Global Global Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Principles Energy Emissions, eﬄuents and waste Direct energy consumption by primary 6.5 Total direct and indirect greenhouse 6.5 EN3 86 EN16 8 89 energy source 6.5.4 gas emissions by weight 6.5.5 Indirect energy consumption by 6.5 Other relevant indirect greenhouse EN4 8 A29 gasemissions by weight 6.5 primary source 6.5.4 EN17 8 6.5.5 6.5 Information not available Energy saved due to conservation and EN5 8 and 9 85 efficiency improvements 6.5.4 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 6.5 EN18 8 and 9 86 emissions and reductions achieved 6.5.5 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products 6.5 Emissions of ozone-depleting EN6 and services, and reductions in energy 6.5.4 8 and 9 41 and 85 substances by weight 6.5 requirements as a result of these EN19 6.5.3 initiatives Information not available Initiatives to reduce indirect energy NOx, SOx, and other significant air consumption and reductions achieved 6.5 emissions by type and weight 6.5 EN7 EN20 6.5.4 6.5.3 Information not available Information nnot available Water Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5 6.5 EN21 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 8 A29 6.5.3 6.5.4 Information not available Water sources significantly affected by Total weight of waste by type and 6.5 EN22 8 79 to 81 and A30 withdrawal of water disposal method 6.5.3 6.5 EN9 There are no water sources significantly Total number and volume of significant 6.5.4 affected by withdrawal of water in the spills 6.5 Company´s operations EN23 6.5.3 There were no significant spills in 2010 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5 EN10 Weight of transported, imported, 6.5.4 Information not available exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Biodiversity Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and Location and size of land owned, leased, percentage of transported waste 6.5 EN24 shipped internationally 8 managed in, or adjacent to, protected 6.5.3 areas and areas of high biodiversity 6.5 10,650 kg worth of Askarel were EN11 value outside protected areas 6.5.6 incinerated in Finland. The companies FURNAS does not own any land in involved were: Saniplan Engineering / protected areas Ekokem Oy Ab (Finland) Description of significant impacts of Identity, size, protected status, and activities, products, and services on biodiversity value of water bodies 6.5 and related habitats significantly EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and 8 75 to 77 6.5 areas of high biodiversity value outside 6.5.6 affected by the reporting organization’s EN25 discharges of water and runoff 6.5.4 8 protected areas 6.5.6 6.5 There are no discharges of water EN13 Habitats protected or restored 8 A37 and runoff affecting water bodies as 6.5.6 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 associated to the Company´s activities Strategies, current actions, and future 6.5 EN14 plans for managing impacts on 8 71, 72, 75, 76 and A38 biodiversity 6.5.6 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 6.5 EN15 8 A31 with habitats in areas affected by 6.5.6 operations, by level of extinction risk furnas furnas 98 99 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Global Global Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Principles Products and Services Minimum notice period(s) regardingoperational changes, 6.5 including whether it is specified in Initiatives to mitigate environmental 6.5.4 collective bargaining agreements EN26 impacts of products and services, and 8 and 9 72, 75, 76 and A38 extent of impact mitigation 6.6.6 In the Collective Bargaining 6.7.5 Agreement with National validity there Percentage of products sold and their is a cluse stating: packaging materials that are reclaimed 6.5 by category “CLAUSE SIX – TECHNOLOGICAL EN27 6.5.4 INNOVATIONS Not applicable to the Company´s core 6.7.5 “The companies abiding by business this Agreement, during the implementation of technological 6.4 Compliance innovation processes ensuring the 6.4.3 LA5 rationalization of work procedures, as Monetary value of significant fines 6.4.4 and total number of non-monetary well as changes in activities carried EN28 6.5 8 A32 to A34 6.4.5 sanctions for noncompliance with out by employees, shall guarantee environmental laws and regulations the participation of the unions abiding by this very agreement. Transport Activities developed may be aided by a commission of representatives Significant environmental impacts of interested employees or those of transporting products and who may become interested parties other goods and materials used 6.5 concerning those issues safeguarding EN29 for the organization’s operations, 6.5.4 their jobs, health and safety, as well as and transporting members of the the quality of the activities performed 6.6.6 workforce and the adoption of other issues as Information not available made necessary to eliminate any pending matter wahtsoever” Overall Occupational Health and Safety Annual Report Total environmental protection EN30 6.5 7 and 8 (Information on Social and Percentage of total workforce expenditures and investments by type Environmental Aspects) represented in formal joint Social Performance Indicators management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor Employment and advise on occupational health and safety programs 6.4 6.4 LA6 1 and 3 Total workforce by employment type, 6.4.6 LA1 6 A11 employment contract, and region 6.4.3 Representation at the Occupational Total number and rate of employee Health and Safety Committee and 6.4 at the Internal Accident Prevention LA2 turnover by age group, gender, and 6 A11 to A14 region 6.4.3 Committee concerns 100% of employees Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 6.4 temporary or part-time employees, by LA7 A19 and A20 major operations number of workrelated fatalities by 6.4.6 6.4 region LA3 Only employees are entitled to profit 6.4.3 6 sharing, Complementary Social 6.4 6.4.4 Benefits as offered by Real Grandeza Education, training, counseling, 6.4.6 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Foundation FRG and related prevention, and risk-control programs 6.8 benefits as granted by collective LA8 in place to assist workforce members, 52, 60, 82 and 83 their families, or community 6.8.3 bargaining agreements members regarding serious diseases 6.8.4 Labor/Management Relations 6.8.8 Percentage of employees covered 6.4 Health and safety topics covered in bycollective bargaining agreements 6.4.3 formal agreements with trade unions 6.4 LA4 6.4.4 1 and 3 LA9 Clause 25 of the Collective Bargaining 6.4.6 Every collective bargaining agreement 6.4.5 Agreement rules the Internal Accident furnas furnas is extended to all empoyees 6.3.10 Prevention Committee 100 101 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Global Global Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Principles Training and Education Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Average hours of training per year per 6.4 aspects of human rights that are LA10 51 employee by employee category 6.4.7 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained 6.3 Programs for skills management and HR3 1 and 2 25 lifelong learning that support the 6.4 In Project Right Hand, 32 truck drivers, 6.3.5 LA11 continued employability of employees 6.4.7 51 10 facilitators, and 14 managers were and assist them in managing career 6.8.5 given instructions on how to combat endings child and teenager sexual abuse, totalling 64.5 men/hour Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Non-Discrimination development reviews 6.4 LA12 Total number of incidents of 100% The Career Plan envisages an 6.4.7 discrimination and actions taken individual performance analysis for every employee on a yearly basis There is Normative Ruling on issues and manifestations brought either Diversity and Equal Opportunity to the Ombudsman Office or the Ethics Commission, whichever should Composition of governance bodies 6.3.7 be the case. Reports are produced and breakdown of employees per 6.3.10 via specific forms, which produce a LA13 category according to gender, age 1 and 6 A13 register number and in their turn a 6.4 6.3 group, minority group membership, password so reporters may follow and other indicators of diversity 6.4.3 6.3.6 up the reporting process. Local HR4 upper management where the event 6.3.7 1 and 6 A21 6.3.7 reported occurred is brought into 6.3.10 6.3.10 action and given a deadline to clear up Ratio of basic salary of men to women 6.4.3 LA14 6.4 1 and 6 A12 matters. Afterwards, the authenticity of by employee category 6.4.3 the issue reported is checked either by 6.4.4 the Ombudsman Office or the Ethics Commission, which are ultimately in Social Performance – Human Rights charge of providing a formal answer to those reporting the issue in a clear Investment and Procurement Practices and objective fashion. It is up to those reporting the issue to assess the quality Percentage and total number of 6.3 of how the matter is handled significant investment agreements 6.3.3 HR1 that include human rights clauses or 1, 2, 4 and 5 53 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining that have undergone human rights 6.3.5 screening 6.6.6 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Percentage of significant suppliers and collective bargaining may be at 6.3 andcontractors that have undergone 6.3 significant risk, and actions taken to 6.3.3 screening on human rights and actions 6.3.3 support these rights taken 6.3.4 HR2 6.3.5 Freedom of union membership 6.3.5 FURNAS did not carry out any 6.4.3 HR5 and association is guaranteed by a 1 and 3 6.3.8 assessment on suppliers as far as 6.6.6 Collective Bargaining Agreement human rights are concerned 6.3.10 (ACT) signed between FURNAS and unions. The ACT covers 100% of the 6.4.3 Company´s employees and is in 6.4.5 accordance with the International Labor Organization (OIT) susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Child Labor 6.3 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of 6.3.3 child labor, and measures taken to 6.3.4 HR6 1, 2 and 5 53 contribute to the elimination of child 6.3.5 labor. 6.3.7 6.3.10 furnas furnas 102 103 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Global Global Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Principles Forced and Compulsory Labor Social Performance– Community 6.3 Community Operations identified as having 6.3.3 significant risk for incidents of forced 6.3.9 6.3.4 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any HR7 or compulsory labor, and measures to 1, 2 and 4 53 programs and practices that assess and 6.8 contribute to the elimination of forced 6.3.5 SO1 manage the impacts of operations on 6.8.5 1 55 or compulsory labor 6.3.7 communities, including entering, 6.8.7 6.3.10 operating and exiting 6.6.7 Security Practices Corruption Percentage of security personnel Percentage and total number of trained in the organization’s policies business units analyzed for risks related or procedures concerning aspects 6.6 SO2 to corruption of human rights that are relevant to 6.6.3 operations FURNAS does not perform specific 6.3 assessment of corruption-related issues Four security inspectors are FURNAS 6.3.5 HR8 employees. All other security members 6.4.3 Percentage of employees trained in are either outsourced or hired by organization’s anti-corruption policies 6.6.6 outsourced service renderes. Training and procedures 6.6 compliance covers Human Rights SO3 issues and conform to every security There was no specific anti-corruption 6.6.3 member, as determined by Ruling training on policies and procedures in 387/2006 and further amendments 2010 Indigenous Rights Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people There is Normative Ruling on issues and actions taken and manifestations brought either to the Ombudsman Office or the No suits on the violation of indigenous Ethics Commission, whichever should rights were filed. Accord 10323/92, be the case. Reports are produced which defined the compensation via specific forms, which produce a terms for the Avá-Canoeiro indigenous register number and in their turn a community impacted by the password so reporters may follow construction of Serra da Mesa HPP in up the reporting process. Local 6.6 part of its traditional territory expired SO4 upper management where the event 10 6.6.3 in June 2002. To be reinstated, an reported occurred is brought into Avá-Canoeiro Support Program has action and given a deadline to clear up been negotiated between FURNAS and 6.3 matters. Afterwards, the authenticity of FUNAI since 2004. The construction of 6.3.6 the issue reported is checked either by the third circuit of Itaberá-Tijuco Preto the Ombudsman Office or the Ethics HR9 750 kV TL, bordering the Guarani ethnic 6.3.7 1 77 Commission, which are ultimately in group indigenous land in São Paulo 6.3.8 charge of providing a formal answer determined that a Conduct Adjustment 6.6.7 to those reporting the issue in a clear Agreement (TAC) be signed, as defined and objective fashion. It is up to those by the Federal´s Attorney General Office reporting the issue to assess the quality in 2000. Activities established by this of the way the matter is handled TAC were concluded in 2009, exception being made to FURNAS´s participation Public Policy in identifying and demarcating land Public policy positions and 6.6 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 so as to increment Indigenous Land territoriality. Land management SO5 participation in public policy 6.6.4 1 and 8 58, 62, 64 and 84 depends upon FUNAI´s coordination. development and lobbying 6.8.3 With these indigenous communities, the Environmental Recovery and Total value of financial and in-kind Subsistence Program, described on contributions to political parties, page 77 of this Report politicians, and related institutions by 6.6 SO6 country 6.6.4 FURNAS does not make any kind of 6.8.3 contribution to politicians, parties or furnas furnas related institutions 104 105 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Global Global Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Principles Compliance Marketing Communications Total number of legal actions for Programs for adherence to laws, anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, standards, and voluntary codes and monopoly practices and their 6.6 related to marketing communications, SO7 outcomes 6.6.5 including advertising, promotion, and 6.7 sponsorship 6.7.3 FURNAS is not part of any legal action 6.6.7 PR6 concerning anticompetitive behavior, FURNAS complies with what is 6.7.6 anti-trust, and monopoly practices established by the Integrated 6.7.9 Communication Policy of Eletrobras Monetary value of significant fines 6.6 companies, available on www. and total number of non-monetary eletrobras.com (Sala de Imprensa) SO8 6.6.7 A32 and A33 sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 6.8.7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and Social Performancee Product Responsibility Performance Indicators 6.7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, 6.7.3 Customer Health and Safety PR7 promotion, and sponsorship by type of 6.7.6 Life cycle stages in which health and outcomes 6.7.9 safety impacts of products and services 6.3.9 Not applicable are assessed for improvement, and 6.6.6 PR1 percentage of significant products and 6.7 Customer Privacy services categories subject to such procedures 6.7.4 Total number of substantiated 6.7.5 complaints regarding breaches Not applicable of customer privacy and losses of 6.7 PR8 customer data 6.7.7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and 6.3.9 Not applicable voluntary codes concerning health and 6.6.6 PR2 safety impacts of products and services 6.7 Compliance during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 6.7.4 Monetary value of significant fines 6.7.5 for noncompliance with laws and Not applicable regulations concerning the provision 6.7 PR9 and use of products and services 6.7.6 Product and Service Labeling Not applicable Type of product and service 6.7 information required by procedures, 6.7.3 Electric Utility Sector and percentage of significant 6.7.4 Installed capacity (MW), broken down PR3 products and services subject to such information requirements 6.7.5 EU1 by energy source and by country or A40 6.7.6 regulatory regime Not applicable 6.7.9 Net energy output broken down EU2 by primary energy source and by A43 Total number of incidents of non6.7 regulatory regime compliance with regulations and 6.7.3 Number of residential, industrial and voluntary codes concerning product 6.7.4 PR4 EU3 commercial customer accounts and service information and labeling, 6.7.5 by type of outcomes Not applicable 6.7.6 Not applicable 6.7.9 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Practices related to customer 6.7 EU4 regulatory regime A39 satisfaction, including results of surveys 6.7.4 measuring customer satisfaction FURNAS Transmission System does not 6.7.5 possess underground lines PR5 6.7.6 Information not available 6.7.8 6.7.9 furnas furnas 106 107 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Global Global Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Principles Allocation of CO2e emissions Transmission and distribution losses as allowances or equivalent, broken down a percentage of total energy by carbon trading framework. EU12 EU5 Transmission loss: 3%. FURNAS does FURNAS does not possess allocation of not distribute energy CO2e emissions permits Biodiversity of replacement habitats Management approach to ensure short compared to the biodiversity of the and long-term electricity availability and areas that are being replaced reliability. FURNAS replaces habitats as an The National Interconnected System – EU13 environmental compensation in all its SIN – is under the responsibility of the undertakings and installations finalized National Electricity System Operator after the onset of the applicable EU6 – ONS. This Agency plans, studies environmental legislation. However, and executes operating procedures no comparison studies on local to optimize the country´s electrobiodiversity have been produced energy resources without impairing Programs and processes to ensure the power supply reliability. Concessionary EU14 51 availability of a skilled workforce companies are responsible for equipment maintenance so they remain Percentage of workforce entitled to available for operations. retirement in the next 5 to 10 years EU15 Demand-side management programs 53.5 % (2,625 employees entitled to including residential, commercial and retirement in a total of 4,906) EU7 industrial programs Policies and requirements concerning Not applicable the health and safety of employees, contractors and subcontractors Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing FURNAS Occupational Health and EU8 7 and 8 40 to 42 and A26 reliable electricity and promoting Safety Policy is fully complied with sustainable development by all areas with the due support of the Committee of Occupational Provisions for decommissioning of Health and Safety, composed of EU9 nuclear power sites representatives of all officers and Not applicable coordinated by the Department of Services and Human Resources and Planned capacity (MW) against by the Permanent Committee of projected electricity demand over the Accident Prevention, composed of two long term, broken down by energy EU16 union representatives. The Company 52 source and regulatory regime offers contractors and subcontractors EU10 health and safety training. Outsourced The Energy Research Company – EPE personnel are to be trained by – is responsible for the electro-energy their contracting companies, planning of the Power Sector in order although FURNAS offers a course on to meet the call of long-term power transmission line construction. FURNAS demand offers individual security equipment Research and development activity only to its own employees and and expenditure aimed at providing contractors. In terms of collective safety reliable electricity and promoting equipment and systems, FURNAS EU11 sustainable development handles all the necessary resources to safeguard workforce safety and health Information not available as well as that of its installations susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 furnas furnas 108 109 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Global Global Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Directives / GRI G3 Indicators ISO 26000 Compact Page Principles Principles Total work days of contractors and Percentage of population unserved in subcontractors active in construction, EU26 licensed distribution areas operation and maintenance EU17 Not applicable FURNAS does not realize this type of control. This control is carried out by Number of residential disconnections the service rendering companies for non-payment, broken down by EU27 duration of disconnection and by Percentage of contractors and regulatory regime subcontractors that have undergone relevant health and safety training Not applicable EU18 FURNAS does not realize this type of Power outage frequency EU28 control. This control is carried out by Not applicabale the service rendering companies Average power outage duration Stakeholders participation in the EU29 decision making process related to Not applicable energy planning and infrastructure development Average plant availability factor by EU30 energy source and by country or A43 EU19 The Energy Research Company – EPE regulatory regime – is responsible for the electro-energy planning of the Power Sector in order to meet the call of long-term power demand and infrastructure development Approach to managing the impacts of EU20 1 and 2 77 involuntary displacement Contingency planning measures and disaster/emergency management plan EU21 1 and 2 A35 and training programs, and recovery/ restoration plans Number of people displaced broken EU22 down by physical and economic 1 and 2 77 displacement Programs, including those in partnership with government, to EU23 58 improve or maintain access to electricity and customer support services Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related EU24 barriers to accessing and safely using electricity services Not applicable Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgements, settlements and pending legal cases of EU25 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 diseases FURNAS does not have a direct relationship with the final consumer of electric utility furnas furnas 110 111 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE IBasE 2010 social Balance Regarding the determination of annual goals to minimize wastes, (X) Has no goals (X) Has no goals the consumption in general in ( ) Complies from 0 to 50% ( ) Complies from 0 to 50% production/operation, and to ( ) Complies from 51 to 75% ( ) Complies from 51 to 75% 1. Calculation basis 2010 Value (R$ thousand) 2009 Value (R$ thousand) increase the effectiveness in ( ) Complies from 76 to 100% ( ) Complies from 76 to 100% the use of natural resources, the Net revenue (NR) 6,449,652 5,974,469 Company: Operating results (OR) 944,550 404,460 5. Personnel indicators 2010 2009 Gross payroll (GP) 1,007,811 1,018,067 Nº of employees at the end of 4,906 4,758 Value Value the period 2. Internal social indicators (thousand % on GP % on NR (thousand % on GP % on NR Nº of hirings in the period 183 65 reais) reais) Nº of outsourced employees 1,591 1,676 Food 49,101 4.87 0.76 38,695 3.80 0.65 Nº of interns 500 598 Compulsory social charges 222,776 22.10 3.45 201,903 19.83 3.38 Nº of employees older than 45 3,122 2,972 Private pension(1) 16,928 1.68 0.26 14,627 1.44 0.24 Nº of women working in the Health 95,339 9.46 1.48 86,717 8.52 1.45 715 670 company Occupational Safety and health % leadership positions held by 8,126 0.81 0.13 8,040 0.79 0.13 14.57% 13.21% at work women Education 2,786 0.28 0.04 2,896 0.28 0.05 Nº of dark-skinned employees 1,113 1,089 Culture 1,588 0.16 0.02 1,986 0.20 0.03 % leadership positions held by 7.80% 8.09% dark-skinned employees Capacity building and 14,165 1.41 0.22 18,157 1.78 0.30 professional development Nº of people with disability or 236* 237 special needs Day-care or day-care assistance 9,165 0.91 0.14 5,673 0.56 0.09 Profit or results sharing 105,338 10.45 1.63 76,849 7.55 1.29 6. Relevant information regarding the exercise of 2010 Goals 2011 Other 47,054 4.67 0.73 201,612 19.80 3.38 business citizenship Total – internal social indicators 572,366 56,80 8.86 657,155 64.55 10.99 Ratio between the highets and lowest remuneration in the 22 24 Value Company 3. Indicadores sociais (thousand % on OR % on NR Valor (mil) % on OR % on NR externos reais) Total number of labor accidents 62 63 Education 8,666 0.92 0.13 6,643 1.64 0.11 Social and environmental Directors Directors and All Directors Directors and All projects developed by the Culture 4,753 0.50 0.07 6,083 1.50 0.10 () Managers employees () Managers employees Company were defined by: (X) () (X) () Health and sanitation 13,659 1.45 0.21 8,501 2,10 0.14 Directors and All Directors and All Safety and health standards at Managers employees All + Cipa Managers employees All + Cipa Sports 0 0.00 0.00 15 0.00 0.00 the workplace were defined by: (X) () () (X) () () Hunger relief and food safety 4,496 0.48 0.07 3,338 0.83 0.06 Regarding union freedom, right to collective bargaining Not involved Adopts ILO Fosters and Will have no Will follow Will foster and Others 15,315 1.62 0.23 7,472 1.84 0.13 () standards adopts ILO involvement OIT standard follow OIT and internal representation of () (X) () () (X) Total of contributions to society 46,889 4.97 0.71 32,052 7.91 0.54 employees, the Company: Taxes (excluding social charges) 767,597 81.26 11.90 337,274 83.38 5.64 Total – external social 814,486 86.23 12.61 369,326 91.29 6.18 indicators susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Value Value 4. Environmental indicators (thousand % on OR % on NR (thousand % on OR % on NR reais)) reais)) Investments in the production / 22,687 2.40 0.35 13,946 3.45 0.23 operation of the company Investments in external programs 39,282 4.16 0.61 33,559 8.30 0.57 and/or projects Total investments in 61,969 6.56 0.96 47,505 11.75 0.80 furnas furnas environment 112 113 GrI TaBLE anD IBasE 2010 sOCIaL BaLanCE Directors and All Directors and All The private pension plan Directors Managers employees Directors Managers employees includes: () () (X) () () (X) Directors and All Directors and All Participation in profits or results Directors Managers employees Directors Managers employees include: ( ) ( ) (X) ( ) ( ) (X) In selecting suppliers, the same ethical, social and environmental Are not Are Will not Willl be Will be responsibility standards are considered suggested Are required consider suggested required adopted by the Company: ( ) (X) ( ) ( ) (X) ( ) Organizes Will organize Regarding the participation of and Will not be and the employees in volunteer work Is not involved Supports encourages involved Will support encourage programs, the Company: ( ) ( ) (X) ( ) ( ) (X) In the In the Total number of claims and Company At Procon In Court Company At Procon In Court criticisms from consumers: NA(4) NA NA NA NA NA In the In the % of claims and criticisms Company At Procon In Court Company At Procon In Court addressed or settled: NA NA NA NA NA NA Total Distribution of Value In 2010: 2,813,301 In 2009: 2,057,197 Added (R$ thousand): • 20% government • 8% government • 34% employees • 45% employees Distribution of Value Added • 3% shareholders • 0% shareholders (DVA): • 23% third parties • 29% third parties • 20% retained • 18% retained 7. Other information CNPJ: 23274194/0001-19; Economic Sector: Public Services; Head Oﬃce: Rio de Janeiro. For further information on the above declared: Roberto Bandeira de Mello Filho – Assessoria de Promoção da Cidadania Empresarial. Tel: +55 21 2528-2598 / e-mail: robertob@furnas.com.br. This Company has no child labour or forced and compulsory labour, no involvement with prostitution or sexual exploitation of children and adolescents, and is not involved with corruption. Our Company upholds and respects diversity both internally and externally. Note: In accordance with the model produced by the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analysis – Ibase. (1) The difference observed in the 2009 Sustainability Report is due to orientation 33, issued by the Accounting Convergence Committee, and IAS 19, of the International Accounting Standards. (2) Reported otherwise in 2009 Sustainability Report. (3) Refers to the total of 24 employees and 214 professionals bound by a contract with The Association for Valuing Persons with Disabilities – Avape. (4) NA Not applicable. susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 furnas furnas 114 115 116 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 Appendices 117 furnas susTaInaBILITY rEPOrT 2010 APPENDICES 1. Policies General directives Either by means of financial support or not, FURNAS seeks to sponsor projects, social and cultural initiatives that shall meet the commitments laid down by such Policy. 1.1. Social Responsibility Policy Funding toward social programs either come from the Company´s own sources or from tax wavers. Objective All socially-oriented investments made by FURNAS must meet the following criteria: To establish directives for FURNAS in social responsibility related issues. • A focus on well planned, defined, and dully monitored strategies, with assessed results; Presentation • Be in line with FURNAS undertakings and policies, seeking opportunities in order to benefit first hand FURNAS is a company that is committed to promoting and conducting social responsibility initiatives the communities lying on the outskirts of installations; before shareholders, employees, suppliers, and clients, as well as those organizations part of the system, • Be in line with society legitimate interests as expressed in the legislation, public policies or formalized society and other interested parties. commitments; • Be consistent with FURNAS principles and Eletrobras guidelines; and FURNAS acknowledges the impacts provoked by the way businesses are done, but also how much it can • Be grounded on a decision-making process based on clear and well-disclosed criteria and parameters contribute to sustainable development, and thus is engaged in promoting a reputation of excellence as made known by partners and stakeholders. and corporate citizenship. Form of conduct By optimizing social investment and contributing to the development of those communities on the FURNAS shall act preferentially by means of partnerships with public agencies / authorities, organizations outskirts of its installations, FURNAS ultimately minimizes those negative outcomes while stressing the or social networks, contributing to the development of social organizations and for the feasibility of, the positive ones, thus strengthening businesses activities. complementation to, and the strengthening of public policies. By adopting a responsible relationship with the communities where it is active in, FURNAS safeguards a Social responsibility initiatives as to what concerns employees, volunteers, suppliers and clients must position that sheds a positive light on the Company´s reputation. be developed by the due responsible area, and must be in line with FURNAS Strategic Planning and Eletrobras guidelines. Commitment FURNAS is committed with the principles of the Global Compact and the Objectives of the Millennium, which are the guiding practices of its corporate policies. FURNAS thus contributes to: 1.2. Environmental Policy • Protecting and promoting human rights in order not to become an accomplice of policies that may FURNAS Environmental Policy is based on the following principles: jeopardize them; • Ensuring humane work conditions, safeguarding the freedom of association and the right to collective • Integration with the Company´s other policies; labor negotiations, fighting child labor, forced labor, and any form of discrimination in its value chain; • Incorporation of the environmental issue to the phases of planning, design, construction and operation • A responsible conduct with the environment, therefore addressing it with the due care and adopting of its installations; clean technologies; • Compliance with the environmental legislation and the commitments made toward the environment; • Fighting corruption in all its forms; • Disclosure of environmental data associated with its undertakings; • Eliminating hunger and poverty; • Ongoing dialogue with employees, communities, and other interested parties in order to exchange • Universalizing basic education; information and seek participative solutions; • Promoting gender equality and autonomy among women; • Promotion of training and participation in environmental education initiatives in what regards the • Reducing child mortality rate; Company´s activities; • Improving maternal health; • Improving processes and incorporating new technologies so as to achieve an ongoing betterment of • Fighting Aids, malaria, tuberculosis and other diseases; environmental performance; and • Guaranteeing environmental sustainability; and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • Rational use of natural resources and combat energy waste. • Developing partnerships that may help to reach the above mentioned objectives. Moreover, FURNAS gives support to and fosters volunteering among its employees. FURNAS FURNAS A2 A3 APPENDICES 1.4. Forest Resources Policy FURNAS Forest Resources Policy will comply with the principles below: • Integrate the policy under view with the Company´s other policies, especially with the Environmental Policy; • Behave in line with the prevailing legislation, the Company´s internal rulings and the commitments made with environmental issues, as well as follow the development of those other issues concerning forest policies as practiced by the entities of the power industry sector and government agencies; • Add value to forest resources by promoting events, educational training, and qualiﬁcation of those involved in the Company´s core business; • Plan handling activities such as vegetation suppression, and conservation of natural resources in an integrated, participative way, with decentralize action-taking so as to attain a better and eﬃcient use of these resources while minimizing interferences with the environment; • Establish, implement, assess, and monitor the Company´s systems, plans, programs, processes and norms ruling forest resources management; • Stimulate those accreditation models related to forest resource handling and conservation; • Promote the conservation of forest resources through re-vegetation, reforesting, and vegetation recomposition measures in those areas that are the property of FURNAS, and where no use or expansion plans are being made, seeking to protect the Company´s installations, improve human living conditions and maintain biodiversity; • Foster and give the due support to programs or projects addressing the conservation of forest resources in areas lying in the outskirts of FURNAS installations; and • Promote action-taking toward the genetic conservation of forest resources, especially those rare, endemic, endangered species or those with economic potential, so as to obtain matrixes for the production of seedlings or to be exchanged with other institutions, and to maintain a representation of 1.3. Environmental Education Policy biodiversity where the Company is active. FURNAS understands Environmental Education as the processes through which individuals and the collectivity build up social values, knowledge, abilities, forms of conduct, and competencies toward environmental conservation. These are ultimately the elements that are so essential to improving the quality of life, and life´s sustainability as well. FURNAS thus instituted in June 2010 its Environmental Education Policy, laying down the following guiding principles: • To promote the establishment of an Environmental Education process within the Company, guaranteeing its continuity, and continuously assessing the impact of the actions in development in and out of the Company; • To understand the environmental realm, considering the relations of interdependence of the ecological, social, economic, and cultural realms in order to promote its own sustainability; • To guarantee that the dialogue and cooperation among diﬀerent cultures, popular wisdom and scientific knowledge will be rallying agents for knowledge construction; SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • To stimulate a critical analysis of the historical processes concerning power generation, transmission, and the ways it may be used, considering the implications for life in society and for the environment; • To foster all Company´s areas to partake in action-taking toward the prevention and solution of problematic environmental issues; • To promote the development of social values, as well as of individual and collective knowledge upbuilding, abilities, behaviors and competences toward the conservation of natural resources and a better quality of life, with social justice and environmental responsibility; and FURNAS FURNAS • To remain in line with all the Company´s policies and the prevailing legislation. A4 A5 APPENDICES 1.5. Water Resources Policy waste management where it is active in, as well as before environmental agencies and other interested parties; and FURNAS Water Resources Policy is ruled by the following principles: • Establish, implement, assess, and monitor systems, plans, programs, projects, and processes addressing low waste generation, as well as norms of conduct within FURNAS, in accordance with the Environmental • Integrate the policy under view with the National Policy on Water Resources and the Company´s Policy and all Company´s policies. other policies; • Promote liaison with communities, associations and other interested parties so as to exchange information that my help implement the Company´s Water Resources Policy in a participative way; 1.7. Eletrobras System Sustainability Policy • Teamwork with the agencies of the National System of Water Resources Management and with the National Electricity System Operator (ONS) to minimize the adverse eﬀects of critical hydrological Objective events aﬀecting the dwellers of places under the inﬂuence of the Company´s undertakings; Establish orienting principles for Eletrobras Sister Companies regarding the promotion of sustainable • Promote the sensible use of water to meet the call of FURNAS market share, considering the multiple growth, while seeking to match business opportunities with social, economic, financial and environmental uses of water; responsibility. • Follow up the limnological behavior and water quality of the Company´s power plants reservoirs and other water resources that installations depend on, while setting forth to the discretionary Directives authorities preventive and mitigating measures of occasional impacts in water resources, when that • Promotion of Sustainable Development should be the case; Act as a sustainable development agent where Eletrobras companies are active in. • Act upon water resources management of those hydrographic basins the Company is active in; • Clean and renewable energy • Promote FURNAS employee qualiﬁcation to improve the knowledge available on the National Policy of Prioritize energy generation through clean and renewable matrixes. Water Resources and the National System of Water Resource Management, as well as the Company´s • Sensible use of resources participation in water resource forums; and Promote the sensible use of natural resources and the necessary material to the processes, systems • Apply the principles of the Policy under view to the phases of planning, design, construction and and operations of Eletrobras Sister Companies. operation of its installations. • Energetic eﬃciency Act as an energetic eﬃciency enforcer, seeking more consistency in the use of natural resources and promoting the development and the use of technologies, processes and systems for that purpose. 1.6. Waste Management Policy • Sustainable R&D+I Promote research, scientific development and technological innovation seeking an improved At a time when natural resources are becoming increasingly scarce, FURNAS acknowledges its performance, stressing positive impacts and minimizing the negative ones within the Company´s responsibility in managing the waste produced by its activities. activities. • Commitment with Ethics and Transparence So in May 2010, FURNAS instituted its Waste Management Policy, stressing the importance of a systematic Establish ethical and transparent relationships with all interested parties. waste control, from the beginning of the process until its final disposition, considering reusable or • Respect for human rights recyclable waste a social and economic asset, in accordance with the prevailing legislation. Respect human rights as established in the legislation, national and international tracts and conventions, shunning any violation in instances liaising with the Company´s businesses. The principles orienting waste management as associated to the several activities the Company engages in are: • Value for the interested parties Aggregate value and perform profitable and competitive operations, in an eﬃcient and eﬀective manner, • Promote and facilitate action-taking toward waste management in the Company on an integrated generating return for collaborators, shareholders, clients, suppliers and other interested parties. basis, stimulating an environmentally-friendly behavior and a sustainable business development in • Dialogue and participation accordance with the prevailing legislation; Establish a wide dialogue process that is transparent, ongoing, and structured together with the • Systematically control waste generation, collection, separation, waste stockpiling, transportation, interested parties, respecting equal rights, the diversity, and culture of the regions where the Company processing, handling, recovery, and final destination in the Company; is active in, while subsidizing corporate decision-making processes with such data. • Hire suppliers and service renderers that use environmentally-friendly technology, as well as purchase • Collaborator Citizen SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 products or materials that produce the least environmental damage; Foster in collaborators commitment-oriented practices addressing sustainability to build a culture • Oﬀer training and safe work conditions, protecting and preserving the health of those professionals / favoring a responsible behavior in both the corporate world and everyday life. employees dealing with waste management; • Promote, on an on-going basis, environmental education courses and build awareness within staﬀ toward waste management issues; • Maintain FURNAS image as a socially-oriented and environmentally-responsible Company concerning FURNAS FURNAS A6 A7 APPENDICES 2. Corporate governance Committees Objective Corporate Sustainability Promote the incorporation of Corporate Sustainability concepts and practices into FURNAS management in its economic, financial, social and environmental dimensions. Strategic and Corporate Planning Support the deliberations concerning FURNAS Strategic and Coordinator Corporate Planning, with a view to providing strategic directives for the Company. Ethics Commission Orient and counsel employees on professional ethics, handling people and the Company´s equity. Human Resources Promote on an ongoing and systematic basis corporate actiontaking concerning Human Resources (HR) in accordance with the established strategic directives. Work Safety and Occupational Health Promote within the Company information and follow up of Work Safety and Occupational Health initiatives. Energy Commercialization Lay down the directives ruling Electric Energy Commercialization in FURNAS. New Businesses Coordination Support Upper Management in deliberations addressing new businesses with a view to building value for the Company. Water Resources Orient the Company, on a permanent and systematic way in • Employee labor and welfare conditions action-taking concerning Water Resources. Guarantee humane labor and welfare conditions to collaborators as foreseen in domestic health and Quality and Productivity Formulate quality strategies and policies. safety standards, and require the same from suppliers. IT Safety Promote action-taking toward IT safety to conform to FURNAS • Quality of life of collaborators strategies. Promote the personal and professional growth of our collaborators, as well as a work environment Research and Development Define Research and Development directives and align them to upholding equal rights and diversity. the Company´s strategic directives. • Procurement and responsible partnerships IT Promote the alignment of IT-related issues to FURNAS global Incorporate social and environmental requisites when hiring goods and services, and stimulate this strategies in the context of business doing. very policy in business partnerships. FURNAS Pro-memory Coordinate permanently and systematically initiatives regarding • Sustainability management FURNAS memory and history, following and integrating Improve management systems so as to promote and guarantee continuous improvement of corporate document, information, material, and equipment collection, preservation, recovery, and disclosure. processes, strengthening sustainability principles. Technical Standardization Formulate general policies and directives for Technical • Risk Management Standardization. Act with the purpose of minimizing and mitigating financial, environmental, social, and operational Corporate Communication Suggest integrated actions in line with the Company´s strategies risks, and those inherent to the businesses of Eletrobras Sister Companies. in internal and external Corporate Communication processes. Commission for Solidarity Waste Collection Suggest directives addressing the implementation in FURNAS The whole of Eletrobras Sister Companies Sustainability Policy may be found at www.eletrobras.com. of selective waste collection of recyclable waste as produced by the Company. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Insurance Coordinate permanently and systematically those actions concerning the insurance of goods, equipment, and installations at FURNAS. Assessment of Documents Promote, orient, and integrate actions regarding Document Management as made by the Company´s several departments, in line with the prevailing legislation. Social and Equity Management Orient the Company on a permanent and systematic fashion in those actions addressing Social and Equity Management of its installations, among them power plants, construction sites, FURNAS substations, transmission lines, reservoirs, and other installations FURNAS deemed essential for its core business. A8 A9 APPENDICES 3. Research and technological and scientific 4. Social and sector indicators development indicators 4.1. Internal social and sector indicators Funding for strategic research issues (R$ thousand) Collaborators according to labor relationship and area of activity 2010 2009 2008 Area of activity Employees Outsourced Interns Total Energetic eﬃciency 0 0 75.2 Central Oﬃce Support to 1,075 502 164 1,741 Renewable or alternative source 181.0 2,988.0 235.0 Business Environment 2,079.11 10,432.70 2,516.7 Core business 823 202 122 1,147 Quality and reliability 310.68 0 1,813.6 Regional Areas Support to 266 139 17 422 Planning and operations 191.20 2,412.07 1,309.7 Business Supervision, control and protection 89.36 2,779.54 708.7 Core business 2,742 748 197 3,687 Mediation 64.94 0 79.8 Total 4,906 1,591 500 6,997 Data transmission through power grid 0 0 396.9 Support to Business: Presidency, Upper Management, Finances and Corporate Management. Generation of electric energy 1,668.41 3,800.94 327.4 Core Business: Upper Management, Engineering, Construction, System Operation and Energy Commercialization. Strategic research 712.69 2,083.60 7,128.9 Transmission of electric energy 1,686.28 1,025.94 165.3 Total invested in R&D 7,238.53 25,522.79 14,757.2 Resources toward energetic eﬃciency over total invested in R&D (%) 0 0 0.5 Total employees per region Resources toward renewable or alternative sources over total State Number 2.50 11.71 1.6 invested in R&D (%) DF 169 Resources toward the environment over total invested in R&D (%) 28.72 40.88 17.0 ES 73 Resources toward quality and reliability over total invested in R&D (%) 4.30 0 12.3 GO 309 Resources toward planning and operations over total invested in R&D (%) 2.64 9.45 8.9 MG 796 Resources toward supervision, control and safety over total 1.81 10.89 4.8 MT 16 invested in R&D (%) Resources toward measurement over total invested in R&D (%) 0.90 0 0.5 PR 202 Resources toward data transmission through the power grid over total RJ 2,597 0 0 2.7 invested in R&D (%) RO 19 Resources toward power generation over total invested in R&D (%) SC 5 23.05 14.89 2.2 SP 706 Resources toward strategic research over total invested in R&D (%) 9.9 8.16 48.3 TO 14 Resources toward power transmission over total invested in R&D (%) 23.30 4.02 1.1 Total 4,906 Number of employees per educational background POSITION 2010 2009 2008 Managerial 372 371 379 College degree 1,489 1,407 1,378 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Technical level 1,956 1,895 1,888 Middle level – support 758 757 750 Basic level 331 328 329 Total 4,906 4,758 4,724 FURNAS FURNAS A10 A11 APPENDICES Grouped by position, gender and ethnicity Educational profile in relation to total employees (%) Positions Gender Ethnicity Number 2010 2009 2008 Board of Directors Male Caucasian 6 Basic education (complete or incomplete) 7.1 7.3 7.3 Male Caucasian 1 Secondary level (complete) 42.0 40.4 41.9 Governance Supervisory Board Female Caucasian 2 College degree (complete) 30.3 31.3 31.8 Board of Executive Directors Male Caucasian 6 Post-grad (specialization, master, PHD) 20.6 21.0 19.0 Caucasian 294 Illiterate personnel 0 0 0 African-Brazilian 5 Dark skinned 19 Male Asian 3 Native Brazilian 0 Employees per age bracket (%) Not informed 1 Managerial 2010 2009 2008 Caucasian 45 30 5 5 7 African Brazilian 2 31 to 40 20 20 20 Dark skinned 3 Female 41 to 50 28 31 34 Asian 0 Over 51 47 44 39 Native Brazilian 0 Not informed 0 Caucasian 2,794 African Brazilian 203 Gender equity Dark skinned 784 Male 2010 2009 2008 Asian 56 Total women / total employess (%) 15 14 14 Native Brazilian 12 Women in managerial positions / total Not informed 20 13 13 12 Employees managerial positions (%) Caucasian 553 African Brazilian 16 Dark skinned 81 Female Asian 9 Reference salary and remuneration per position and gender Native Brazilian 2 POSITION REFERENCE SALARY (LOWEST SALARY) (R$) REMUNERATION (AVERAGE) (R$) Not informed 4 MEN (M) WOMEN (W) M/W MEN (M) WOMEN (W) M/W Total governance 15 Upper 30,956.74 30,956.74 Total managerial 372 management Total employees 4,534 Management 4,899.10 4,899.10 1.00 20,447.72 20,689.72 0.99 Grand total 4,906 Employees 1,185.72 1,741.17 0.68 8,271.99 7,015.27 1.18 Ethnicity as self-declared. Where no manifestation was made, people were reported as non-declared. Note: The CEO also holds a position as a Council Member, being the only employee to play such a role. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 FURNAS FURNAS A12 A13 APPENDICES Admissions and dismissals NUMBER OF ADMISSIONS AND DISMISSALS PER GENDER Like in 2009, admissions in 2010 outnumbered dismissals. There were 35 dismissals and 183 admissions. Status Men Women Total Number of employees early in the year 4,088 670 4,758 Dismissals profile Voluntary 11 5 16 Dismissals 2010 2009 2008 Unvoluntary 6 6 Number of employees at Fiscal Year End (FYE) 4,906 4,758 4,724 Programmed 3 0 3 Number of retirees* Number of admissions during the year 183 65 250 Accident 2 2 Number of dismissals during the year 35 31 60 Dismissals, others** 11 11 Labor claims Number of admissions 133 50 183 Provisioned in liabilities (R$ thousand) 320,150 230,551 392,138 Number of employees at FYE 4,191 715 4,906 Amount claimed in courtrooms (R$ thousand) 27,649 94,118 25,658 *In 2010, Real Grandeza Foundation recomposed 5 pensions, 4 of which referring to BD plan and 1 to CD plan. Number of labor claims 5,602 6,577 5,305 **Casualties. Contingencies and labor liabilities Number of labor claims brought against the Company 602 1,096 587 Number of labor claims the Company was found guilty 1 2 5 Remuneration (R$ thousand) Number of labor claims tried in courtrooms 6 24 12 2010 2009 2008 Total fines paid as determined by legal decisions (R$) 114,790 113,767 25,628 Gross payroll 1,007,811 1,018,067* 820,101 *Revised and amended, reported otherwise in 2009. Number of admissions and dismissals per age bracket From 31 From 41 Social benefits (R$ thousand) Status Until 30 Above 50 Total to 40 to 50s Number of employees early in the year 241 962 1,468 2,087 4,758 Social security – Employees 177,036.77 Voluntary 6 4 4 2 16 Dismissals Contribution to the Severance Indemnity Fund 44,887.81 Unvoluntary 1 4 6 for Employees FGTS Programmed 1 1 4 6 Number of retirees * Accident 2 2 Desmissals, others** 0 0 0 3 3 Number of admissions 2 2 Salary profile Number of employees at FYE 1,003 1,347 2,319 4,906 2010 2009 2008 Highest and lowest salary ratio (including profit sharing and bonu24.17 22.16 17.0 *In 2010, Real Grandeza Foundation recomposed 5 pensions, 4 of which referring to BD plan and 1 to CD plan. ses) **Casualties. Lowest salary and minimum wage ratio (including profit sharing 2.32 2.71 2.5 and bonuses) Remuneration and salary (%) R$ 2010 2009 2008 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Up to 2,199.99 4.3 5.2 12.6 From 2,200.00 to 3,399.99 20.1 25.4 29.8 From 3,400.00 to 5,499.99 38,1 39.7 36.0 Above 5,499.99 37,5 29.7 21.6 FURNAS FURNAS A14 A15 APPENDICES Average salary according to position (R$) Retirement 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 Executive oﬃcers – Upper Management 30,956.74 29,482.61 28,186.00 Contributions made to FRG for the provision of benefits 12,185 11,576* Managerial 12,879.07 10,930.00 9,294.14 (R$ thousand) Coverage of administrative expenses of retirement plans Administrative 6,351.84 5,644.75 4,776.44 4,743 3,051* (R$ thousand) Production 5,522.70 4,897.20 4,157.15 Total invested in complementary coverage (R$ thousand) 16,928 14,627* Number of people in the Complementary Coverage Program 4,918 4,655 Number of people in the Retirement Preparation Program 800 320 Remuneration of officers *Variation between reported amounts and those in the Social and Environmental Report. 2009 is 2010 2009 2008 due to the orientations of CPC 33, issued by the Accounting Convergence Committee, and IAS 19, by the International Accounting Standards. Remuneration and/or total paid oﬀ (A) (R$ thousand) 2,462 2,147 2,029 Number of Executive Oﬃcers (B) 6 6 6 Remuneration and/or average paid oﬀ (A/B) (R$ thousand) 410 358 338 Total paid oﬀ to board members (C) (R$ thousand) 342 319 304 Number of outsourced personnel, total cost and relation with total workforce Number of board members (D) 9 9 9 2010 2009 2008 Paid oﬀ Average (C/D) (R$ thousand) 38 35 34 Number of outsourced personnel 1,591 1,676 1,723 Total cost (R$ thousand) 173,515 189,832 182,452 Outsourced personnel in relation to total 24.5 26.0 27.0 workforce (%) Profit sharing 2010 2009 2008 Total invested in the Company´s profit sharing programs 105,338 76,849 70,479 (R$ thousand) Educational background of outsourced personnel (%) Disbursements in relation to gross payroll (%) 6.76 7.39 8.59 2010 2009 2008 Employees shares (%) 0.000390280 0.000391900 0.000394434 Basic education (complete or incomplete) 7.6 6.0 7.6 *Revised and adjusted amounts, reported otherwise in 2009. Middle school (complete) 55.3 56.5 57.1 College degree, post-grad (specialization, 37.1 37.5 35.3 masters, PHD) Benefits 2010 2009 R$ R$ % over GP % over NOR % over GP % over NOR thousand thousand Social benefits 222,776 22.10 3.45 201,903 19.83 3.38 Remuneration of outsourced personnel (%) Food vouchers 49,101 4.87 0.76 38,695 3.80 0.65 R$ 2010 2009 2008 Transportation 904 0.09 0.01 1,113 0.11 0.02 Up to 1,499.99 2.0 3.8 6.4 Social security 16,928 1.68 0.26 14,627 1.44 0.24 From 1,500.00 to 2,199.99 11.1 15.2 27.0 Health 95,339 9.46 1.48 86,717 8.52 1.45 From 2,200.00 to 3,999.99 52.4 55.9 47.2 Safety and Occupational Above 3,999.99 34.5 25.1 19.4 8,126 0.81 0.13 8,040 0.79 0.13 Health Education 2,786 0.28 0.04 2,896 0.28 0.05 Culture 1,588 0.16 0.02 1,986 0.20 0.03 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Proﬁssional qualiﬁcation and 14,165 1.41 0.22 18,157 1.78 0.30 INTERNS AND APPRENTICES (%) development Day care / Day care support 9,165 0.91 0.14 5,673 0.56 0.09 2010 2009 2008 Profit sharing 105,338 10.45 1.63 76,849* 7.55* 1.29* Interns in relation to total employees 10 13 16 Others 46,150 4.58 0.72 200,499 19.69 3.36 Employees hired through the apprentice 2.3 3.3 2.5 placement program Total 572,366 56.80 8.86 657,155 64.55 10.99 *Amounts reported otherwise in 2009. FURNAS FURNAS A16 A17 APPENDICES Investments in professional development 2010 2009 2008 Total invested in professional development and 1.41 1.78* 2.62 education (%) Average attendance / hours of professional 37.54 20 40 development courses per employee / year * Revised and adjusted amounts, reported otherwise in 2009. Note: Percentage of amount invested in professional development and education was calculated over net revenue. Education – Number of attendees per type of Upper Management Total no. of employees and No. of employees No. of outsourced outsourced participating personnel personnel in educational participating in participating initiatives educational initiatives in educational initiatives Construction 331 172 503 Engineering 229 50 279 Finance 72 9 81 Corporate Management 438 211 649 System Operation Energy and 1,372 237 1,609 Safety and occupational health Commercialization Presidency 89 36 125 2010 2009 2008 Average extra hours worked per employee/year 161 151 196 Total of work-related accidents with employees 63 62 86 Total of work-related accidents with outsourced personnel 35 111 82 Number of participants (men and women) per age bracket Average work-related accidents per employee/year 0.013 0.014 0.02 Men Women Total employees and Work-related accidents with employees and/or service outsourced personnel renderers (%) Age Employees and outsourced Employees and outsourced attending educational • Employes 29 28(1) 32 personnel attending personnel attending activities • Service renderers 19 12(1) 16(1) educational activities educational activities Work-related accidents with employees and/or service < 30 76 18 94 renderers resulting in mutilation or other damages to physical 30 – 40 708 178 886 0 0 0 integrity provoking permanent leave (including Repetitive 41 – 50 816 144 960 Strain Injury – RSI(%) > 50 1,160 146 1,306 Work-related accidents leading to casualty (%) • Service renderers 0 1.19 1.22 • Employees 0 1.61(1) 0 Index TF(2) total in the period concerning employees 3.01 2.97(1) 2.99 Index TF(2) total in the period concerning outsourced 4.38 2.75 3.62 personnel Index TG(3) total in the period concerning employees 55 451(1) 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Index TG total in the period concerning outsourced (3) 16 2,225 1,935 personnel Investments toward programs for the prevention and treatment of drug addiction (recreational drugs and alcohol) 27.14 24.40 21.30 (R$/appointment) (1) Revised and adjusted amounts, reported otherwise in 2009. (2) TF = Work Accident Frequency Rate. (3) TG = Work Accident Severity Rate. FURNAS FURNAS A18 A19 APPENDICES Work accident frequency and severity rate Employees with physical impairment (%) Total employees (a) Total with physical % b/a Diﬀerence between % Frequency Rate impairment (b) required by the legislation Frequency Rate is obtained by dividing the number of occupational accidents by total million hours of and current % human exposure to risk situations. 4,906 236* 5 0 *Concerns the sum of 24 employees and 212 professionals hired from the Association for Valuing Persons with Labor Accident Frequency Rate Disabilities (Avape). 3.01 Number of physically impaired employees 2010 2009 2008 Employees 24 23 22 2.99 Employees hired from Avape (2009) and IBDD (2008) 212 214 233 Employees trained by Ines 0 20 22 2010 2.97 Avape: Association for Valuing Persons with Disabilities. IBDD: Brazilian Institute for the Rights of the Disabled Person. Ines: National Institute for the Education of the Hearing Impaired. 2009 2008 Note: Revised and adjusted amounts, reported otherwise in 2009. Number of discriminations and measures against them Status 2010 2009 2008 Severity Rate Sex* 0 1 1 Severity Rate is obtained by dividing the number of days on leave plus due days on account of occupaOther relevant forms of discrimination** 1 5 0 tional accidents by total million hours of human exposure to risk situations. *For the appreciation of the Ethics Commission. **Discrimination concerning professional position, sent to the appreciation of the respective Superintendencies. Labor Accident Severity Rate 451 55 19 2010 2009 2008 Note: Revised and adjusted amounts, reported otherwise in 2009. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 FURNAS FURNAS A20 A21 APPENDICES 4.2. External social and sector indicators Projects starting in 2009 that were given continuity in 2010 No. of Name of Project Place benefitted Objective Focus Social Projects people Educate and qualify children Projects starting in 2009 that were given continuity in 2010 and the young living in socially vulnerable situations No. of Promotion of through video, photography, Name of Project Place benefitted Objective Focus Manguerê Vitoria (ES) 125 Citizenship and creative writing, reading, and people Civil Rights environmental education, Promote the necessary actionproviding them with technical taking toward the integral education and social inclusion. FURNAS Technical schooling and development Education and São José da Barra (MG) 624 Enable disabled people to partake Promotion of School of grade school and middle Qualification Swimming Rio de Janeiro (RJ) 37 in swimming activities, favoring Citizenship and school students and Professional without Barriers their social inclusion. Civil Rights Education in Electronics. Oﬀer pedagogical support and Contribute to the social inclusion Rio de Janeiro, Promotion of educational guidance to promote Modernization of of families below poverty line in Rio Citizen Child Campos, Petrópolis 850 Citizenship and Education and civil rights among the young living the Qualification Rio de Janeiro (RJ) 200 18 communities in Rio de Janeiro e Macaé (RJ) Civil Rights Qualification in socially vulnerable situation. Program through professional qualiﬁcation. Oﬀer children and the young Promotion of Qualify jobless women from age Teather and professional insights in the several Belo Horizonte (MG) 600 Citizenship and 16 on in communities within Movies Alvorada artistic and technical careers in Civil Rights greater Rio de Janeiro through Education and drama and in the movie industry. Rescuing lives Rio de Janeiro (RJ) 180 professional qualiﬁcation Qualification workshops in catering, manicure/ pedicure, shaving and embroidery. Projects started in 2010 Consolidate the busines activities No. of of the Craftship Cooperative Work and Name Place benefitted Objective Focus Faces of Rio Rio de Janeiro (RJ) 75 Mistura Carioca in the State of Rio Income people de Janeiro, guaranteeing product Generation comercialization in Rio de Janeiro. Contribute to Professional qualiﬁcation and cultural inclusion Contribute to the social inclusion Feel the through workshops addressing Professionalizing Work and Education and of the young and adults through Environment and Duque de Caxias (RJ) 50 recycling and musical education, Courses Children Duque de Caxias (RJ) 30 Income Qualification professional qualiﬁcation in Live Well and motivational lectures to of Grande Rio Generation develop self-steem in youngsters carnival decoration. and adults. Mobilize Ariquemes citizens so they may become the agents of Instructor Promotion of Qualification Contribute to sustainable regional Ecological Brigade environmental preservation in the Ariquemes (RO) 2,400 Citizenship and in Farming development by qualifying of Ariquemes municipality and state through Education and Civil Rights Development Brasília (DF) 153 instructors in the development of a Program of Environmental Qualification Education. in Cerrado, farming activities in thew Brazilian the Brazilian Savannah (Cerrado) Contribute to the social inclusion Savannah of teenagers living in socially Promotion of Children of Oﬀer technical qualiﬁcation in Nova Iguaçu (RJ) 475 vulnerable situations through Citizenship and Technical Course Baixada farming and cattle raising to low Education and sports practice, using it as a Civil Rights on Farming and Alpinópolis (MG) 105 pedagogical tool. income students in communities Qualification Cattle Raising in the vicinities of Alpinópolis (MG) Promote olympic sports courses (judo, taekwondo, boxing and Promote social inclusion of wrestling) for children and disabled people through the Promotion of SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 teenagers in the community artistic and cultural manifestations Olympic Energy Rio de Janeiro (RJ) 220 Citizenship and Ambassadors of Education and of Morro dos Cabritos, thus Rio de Janeiro (RJ) 400 of the Brazilian Carnical as tools Civil Rights Joy Qualification contributing to keep the young for them to build more balanced away from violence, drugs, and relationships with family and crime. society. Promote the development of Qualification children, teenagers and adults, Workshops for providing them with social Education and Cuiabá (MT) 50 Teachers and inclusion through professional Qualification Young Musicians education and qualiﬁcation FURNAS courses. FURNAS A22 A23 APPENDICES Projects started in 2010 Projects supported by the Fund for Children and Adolescents (FIA) No. of Benefitted Municipality Projects Name Place benefitted Objective Focus people people Association of Parents of Children with Special Needs (APAE) 109 Promote the development of children, teenagers and adults, Volunteer Association for the Support of Children and Teenagers 130 providing them with social Education and Carapina Institute 213 TransFormar Magé (RJ) 154 inclusion through professional Qualification Elói Mendes (MG) education and qualiﬁcation Ludovico Pavoni Social Assistance 100 courses. Brazilian Community Association for the Prevention of Drug Abuse n.a. Contribute to a better caloric intake for those families living in CMDCA Elói Mendes Mobilization for the Prevention of Drug Use n.a. Working AntVista Work and Vista Alegre Settlement by oﬀering Alegre Settlement Cristalina (GO) 117 Income Chapada dos Guimarães (MT) Casa-Lar – Purchase and Assembly n.a. them professional guidance and Millhouse Generation support to commercialize manioc Além Paraíba (RJ) APAE´s Oﬃce, finishing oﬀ construction 253 production surplus. Araguari (MG) Children´s Home Boarding School – Project Roleplay 250 Contribute to rewarding Work and Arts, Hands On Foz do Iguaçu (PR) 37 family income oﬀering families Income Araporã (MG) Secretary of Social Action Project Playing for the Future 96 qualiﬁcation courses. Generation Secretary of Social Assistance – Project Sowing the Future 80 Use sports as an inclusion tool for Promotion of Barra do Piraí (RJ) Training Center – Campos dos Inclusion Pathways Project 30 60 teenagers from age 12 to 15 with Citizenship and Sports No Barriers Goytacazes (RJ) soccer workshops. Civil Rights Colinas do Sul (GO) Construction of the sports arena n.a. Oﬀer social inclusion to children Uruaçu (GO) Construction of the sports arena 1,052 and teenagers living in socially vulnerable situation through Campinaçu (GO) Construction of the sports arena n.a. Promotion of Playing and sports and cultural activities. Foz do Iguaçu (PR) 84 Citizenship and Campinorte (GO) Construction of the sports arena n.a. learning Soccer classes (indoor, field and Civil Rights swiss soccer) and track and field Campos (RJ) São José Professional Institute Project Widening Horizons 80 (sprint, long jump, high jump, javelin and hammer). Foz de Iguaçu Young Guards Sports, Culture and Leisure Project in the Regimen of Support to Social and Educational 1,100 Use sports as a social inclusion Promotion of Foz do Iguaçu (PR) Activities and Social Inclusion Educating Citizens Elói Mendes (MG) 396 tool, educating citizens and Citizenship and Fostering Talents Maria Porta do Céu Family House Project Healthy Environment 708 fostering new soccer talents. Civil Rights Workshops for manufacturing Niquelândia (GO) CRAS Project Pro-Youth 150 chairs proper for handicapped Promotion of Playrole Rio de Janeiro (RJ) e Secretary of Social Assistance and Parental Counseling Project 220 children aged between 1 and 6 so Citizenship and Passos (MG) 25 Workshop Belo Horizonte (MG) House-Home they may remain sitted, improving Civil Rights their posture and health. São Gonçalo (RJ) Pestalozzi Association 145 Contribute to the economic, social São João Del-Rei (MG) Project House-Home Loving is Quite Simple 27 Technical Support and environmental development Service and Promotion of Auri Verde Community Association– Projects and Workshops of the area within Manso HPP 150 Rural Extension Cuiabá (MT) 1,368 Citizenship and of Culture and Arts outskirts through technical to Family Small Civil Rights São Paulo (SP) assistance and rural extension to Farmers Jardim Autódromo Community Service Project Culture family small farmers. 180 in the Race Stadium Contribute to the integral Varginha (MG) Municipal Secretary of Sports Project Sports for Citizenship 350 education of children between Promotion of Come to me Rio de Janeiro (RJ) 90 7 and 10 who live in socially Citizenship and Volta Redonda (RJ) Irmã Zilá Charity Institution 300 Literature unfavorable conditions through Civil Rights Workshops of Arts and Literature. Luminárias (MG) Construction of the Music School 93 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Oﬀer several activities Medianeira (PR) No defined Project Promotion of Citizenship, a (recreational, sports, music, health, Belford Roxo (RJ) 285 Citizenship and Minaçu (GO) No defined Project Living Hope and recycling) for the community Civil Rights of Vila Santa Tereza. Total of benefitted people identified 5,621 Caption: n.a. – Not available. FURNAS FURNAS A24 A25 APPENDICES 5. Environmental indicators R&D projects with focus on the environment Length Amount Name Objective Technoloy partners (months) disbursed • Develop an assessment R&D projects with focus on the environment method for exposure Epidemiologic levels to CEM and build an • Fundação Faculdade Length Amount assessment of EMF´s Name Objective Technoloy partners epidemiological model de Medicina da (months) disbursed (Electric Magnetic 24 R$ 444,439.60 to assess the likelihood of Universidade de São Fields) in FURNAS health-related eﬀects on Paulo – USP • Understand the processes installations the population living near that generate, uphold, and electrical equipment in Brazil. impact biodiversity; and • Escola de Farmácia e Odontologia de • Identify, characterize, and Assessment of toxic • Contribute to improve assess lake dynamics in Alfenas/UNIFAL (MG) metal in the diet of knowledge on water quality Cycle 2003-2004 ﬂood plains of rivers, namely several planktonic and aquatic biodiversity in Grande, Verde, Aiuruoca, • Fundação de and benthic the State of Minas Gerais Characterization of and Sapucaí for ﬂood and Ensino Superior de 30 R$ 993,138.00 communities and in order to produce an marginal lakes and ebb tide scenarios; Passos/UEMG its outcomes in the economic assessment of the ﬂood plains in High tributaries of Furnas ecological issue, establishing Rio Grande in what • Identify basic patterns of • Pontifícia • Escola Politécnica HPP reservoirs (MG) sound and scientifically regards ichthyofauna fish communities living in Universidade 30 R$ 671,312.64 da Universidade de grounded parameters for and definition of these environs; and Católica – PUC-MG São Paulo the conservation of water priority areas for resources and their rational conserving fish • Based on ichthyofauna exploration. diversity (MG) data and those obtained by remote sensing, define the • Oﬀer qualiﬁcation in health Cycle 2005-2006 priority areas for ichtyofauna and environmental public conservation in the region. policies; and Ecological assessment of • Fundação para o • Create a management Desenvolvimento • Develop methodology potential vectors of process to ensure Científico e addressing health impacts human diseases in methodological Tecnológico em based on Geographic the area of inﬂuence 24 R$ 1,481,416.00 standardization to be used Saúde – Fiotec Information System and of Manso Multiple • Fundação in future Environmental models of dynamic analysis Use (MT): Subsidies • Fundação Oswaldo Coordenação de Impact Study, and Definition of impact of impacts; and and control Cruz – Fiocruz Projetos, Pesquisas e Environmental Impact mitigation scenarios measures Estudos Report for hydroelectric for health issues of • Suggest general and Tecnológicos – 24 R$ 398,765.00 power plant constructions populations aﬀected specific study directives, as COPPETEC in Brazil. by hydro power well as those concerning projects in Brazil strategy planning and • Universidade • Assess how feasible it is Cycle 2005-2006 implementation for the Federal do Rio de for Funil reservoir to act as Janeiro – UFRJ control and prevention a natural drainer of organic of diseases in the areas of matter and its pollutants, inﬂuence of electric energy oﬀering improved water projects. quality downstream; Ecological • Instituto de Biofísica Development assessment of • Identify the role of abiotic Carlos Chagas Filho/ • Set up a semen bank of of methods potential vectors of compartments (water, UFRJ endangered species; and focusing increased human diseases in suspended particulate and • Universidade eﬃciency in fish the area of inﬂuence bottom sediment) when • Universidade 24 R$ 500,600.00 • Study the possible ways Federal de Lavras – 48 R$ 397,540.00 reproduction in fish of Manso Multiple transferring these metals to Federal do Estado to preserve fish eggs UFLA farms: Piracanjuba, Use (MT): Subsidies the acquatic biota; and do Rio de Janeiro – and embryos through Dourado, Curimbatá and control UNIRIO cryopreservation. and Piapara measures • Assess the importance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 of nutrients, physical and chemical factors and the composition of planktonic communities in dispersing and storing these pollutants. FURNAS FURNAS A26 A27 APPENDICES R&D projects with focus on the environment Transmission lines environmentally reinstated Length Amount 138 kV Campos-Macaé II TL; 138 kV Muriqui-Angra (CERJ) TL; Name Objective Technoloy partners (months) disbursed 138 kV Campos (Usina)-Campos (SE) 1 TL; 138 kV Muriqui-Brisamar TL; • Based on the data produced by sanitary 138 kV Campos (Usina)-Campos (SE) 2 TL; 138 kV Palmares-Mato Alto TL; monitoring, elaborate 138 kV Imbariê-São José 1 TL; 138 kV Santa Cruz-Brisamar 1 TL; bio-security procedures for Development FURNAS Hydrobiology and 138 kV Imbariê-São José 2 TL; 138 kV Santa Cruz-Palmares 2 TL; of sanitary, bio• Escola de Fishery Station, considering security and Veterinária/UFMG 138 kV Jacarepaguá-Ari Franco TL; 138 kV Santa Cruz-Zin-Ari Franco TL; the whole production cycle, sanitary handling as well as the replacement • Universidade 138 kV Jacarepaguá-Palmares TL; 138 kV Santa Cruz-Jacarepaguá TL; certification 36 R$ 397,620.00 of reproducers of each fish Federal de Lavras – protocols for fish species; and UFLA 138 kV Jacarepaguá-Zin TL; 345 kV Adrianópolis-Jacarepaguá 2 TL; reproduction and programs in FURNAS • Furnish the Hydrobiology System 138 kV Jacuacanga-Brisamar TL; 345 kV Campos-Macaé 1 TL. and Fishery Station a permanent structure and logistics for sanitary monitoring. Determination of charge loss •Assess charge loss due to Indirect energy consumption (MWh) provoked by the golden clam infestation; and Total 77,999.33 infestation of • Universidade golden clams and •Assess swift temperature Federal de Minas 36 R$ 800,030.00 Note: Data used in the calculation of emissions as specified in scope 2 of GHG inventory. assessment of changes for the removal Gerais – UFMG swift temperature of clams from bars and changes for their pipelines. removal from large pipelines Total water retrieved per water resource • Aquaplante Description m³ Cycle 2005-2006 Comercial Ltda. Ribeirão Sarassará 203,642 • Criativa – Rio Paraíba do Sul* 518,115 Consultoria em Matologia e Meio Rio Grande 2,522,880 • Characterize environs of Ambiente S/C Ltda. Rio São Marcos 436,615 aquatic plants; and • Faculdade de Rio Paraíba do Sul* 132,400 Development Ciências • Estimate plant biomass in and integration of Agronômicas da Rio Paraíba do Sul* 31,100 reservoirs and compare data technologies for Universidade Córrego Louriçal 73,200 produced with that of other monitoring and Estadual Paulista – 24 R$ 707,440.00 hydro plants where aquatic Córrego Areia 187,700 control of aquatic UNESP plants oﬀer problems to plants in Porto Rio Paraíba do Sul* 260,900 electric energy generation • Faculdade de Colômbia reservoir and the multiple use of Ciências Agrárias e CEDAE 96,495 reservoirs. Veterinárias Total water retrieved per water resource 4,463,047 • Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia *Water retrieved concerns Campos TPP and the works of Simplício HPP. • Fundação de Estudos e Pesquisas Agrícolas • Fundação Luiz • Obtain data to back the Englert da SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Biological and elaboration, planning, Universidade Federal environmental validation, and follow up do Rio Grande do Sul studies as the basis of methods to prevent, – UFRGS R$ for prevention and control and assess the • Universidade 36 2,070,881.80 control of golden environmental impact Federal do Mato clams in Brazilian caused by the golden Grosso – UFMT rivers and reservoirs clam in Brazilian rivers and • Universidade reservoirs. Federal Rural da Amazônia – UFRA FURNAS FURNAS A28 A29 APPENDICES Limnologic monitoring and water quality Endangered species list Species identified as endangered according to the International Union for Nature Conservancy (UICN) Hydroelectric Power Generation Collection Area (km²) Frequency Red List and according to lists produced domestically pointing out conservation habitats in areas aﬀecPlant (MW) Sites ted by the Company´s operation, discriminated according to levels of endangerment. Furnas 1,440 1,216 37 Quarterly Mascarenhas de Moraes 250 476 10 Quarterly L.C.B. de Carvalho 47 1,050 8 Quarterly 345 kV Tijuco Preto – Itapeti TL Porto Colômbia 143 320 10 Quarterly Scientific Name Popular Name Status Marimbondo 438 1,440 14 Quarterly Blastocerus dichotomus Wetland Deer CP Funil 40 216 13 Quarterly Ozotoceros bezoarticus Pampas Deer CP Itumbiara 778 2,082 17 Quarterly Pecari tajacu Collared Peccary VU Corumbá 65 375 13 Quarterly Tayassu pecari White-lipped Peccary EP Serra da Mesa 1,784 1,275 19 Quarterly Chrisocyon brachyurus Maned Wolf VU Manso 427 212 24 Every two Pseudalopex vetulus Prairie Fox EP months Speothos venaticus Bush Dog CP Under construction Leopardus pardalis Ocelot VU Every two Simplício 12 333 25 Leopardus tigrinus Little Spotted Cat VU months Leopardus wiedii Spotted Cat EP Every two Batalha 138 52 13 Oncifelis concolo Pampas Cat CP months Panthera onca Leopard Cat CP Puma concolor Mountain Lion VU Lutra longicaudis Otter VU Non renewable material Pteronura brasiliensis Giant Otter CP Description Average amount Chiroderma doriae Bat VU Diesel 1,071,211liters Platyrrinus recifinus Bat VU Insulating mineral oil 421,515 liters Thyroptera tricolor Bat VU SF6 4,830.00 kg Lasiurus ebenus Bat VU Silica gel 2,273.85 kg Myotis ruber Bat VU Chironectes minimus Cuíca-de-água VU Tapirus terrestris Tapir EP Callithrix aurita Pygmy Marmoset EP Discharge of PCB – Askarel Callithrix penicillata Star Monkey VU Year Company Amount (kg) Environmental Licenses Leontopithecus caissara Black-faced Lion Tamarin CP 2007/2008 Cetrel 196,200 FEEAM no. 356 Leontopithecus chrysopygus Black-faced Tamarin CP Gaiapan Alouatta caraya Howler Monkey EP 2009/2010 Saniplan Engenharia 10,650 FEEAM no. FE0011732 Alouatta fusca Howler Monkey VU Ekokem Oy Ab CRA ATRP0378 Brachyteles arachnoides Spider Monkey CP (Finlândia) FEEAM no. 578 Häme Regional Environment Callicebus personatus Titi Monkey VU Centre no. 0395Y0270/111 Agouti paca Paca VU IEMA no. 45692300 Dasyprocta azarae Agouti VU Inea no. LO FE 012857 Contract no. 18.668 Phyllomys thomasi Cururuá P SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Cabassous unicintus Armadillo VU Priodontes maximus Giant Armadillo EP Myrmecophaga tridactyla Great Anteater VU CP – Critically endangered EP – Threatened VU – Vulnerable P – Endangered FURNAS FURNAS A30 A31 APPENDICES Simplício HPP Environmental administrative sanctions Avifauna Estimated Infringement notices/ Scientific Name Popular Name Status Enterprise Subject Issuing agency amount as at date 12/30/2010 Pilherodius pileatus White Stork* EP Odontophorus capueira Uru CP Environmental Infringement Notice no. Nyctibius aethereus Mãe da lua parda* EP Itumbiara 6.588-A Agência Goiânia HPP Proc. no. Unlicensed operation R$ 13,173,375.05 Mastofauna Progress of the do Meio Ambiente 5302.01052/1991-1 procedings: 12/30/2009: Callithrix aurita Marmoset VU No amendments Brachyteles arachnoides Wooly Spider Monkey CP Environmental Platyrrhinus recifinus Bat VU Infringement Notice no. Blast followed by fire SE Ivaiporã – PR *According to Machado et al., 1998, Rocha et al., 2003. 48.351/2004 Progress and insulating oil spill Instituto AmbienProcesso R$ 2,023,772.81 CP – Critically endangered EP – Threatened VU – Vulnerable of the proceedings: in Auto-transfromer tal do Paraná (IAP) no. 5.942.831-4 12/30/2009: No ATO1-B. amendments Lack of ﬂora Environmental conservation Infringement Notice No. environmental Batalha HPP 687170-D/10 8/27/2010 programs concerning Progress fo the Batalha HPP Ibama R$ 3,051,570.33 Mastofauna São Marcos river, proceedings: Defense Scientific name Popular name Status between Cristalina pleaded timely on (GO) and Paracatu Myrmecophaga tridactyla Great Anteater VU 09/15/2010 (MG) Chrysocyon brachyurus Maned Wolf VU Notice of fine no. Leopardus tigrinus Little Spotted Cat VU 323/10-SAIA and Panthera onca Leopard Cat VU Subpoena notice No. 250/10-SAIA Instituto Estadual Puma concolor Montain Lion VU Provoking silt up 7/16/2010, reached de Meio Ambienthrough soil carried Priodontes maximus Giant Armadillo VU FURNAS only on Viana SE te e Recursos R$ 5,924.35 away due to the lack 10/14/2010. Hídricos (IEMA), do of vegetation cover VU – Vulnerable Progress of the Espírito Santo proceedings: FURNAS presented defense to IEMA on 10/28/2010 Notice of infraction Environmental Permanent PreservaEnvironmental administrative sanctions Infringement Notice No. tion Area destroyed SEMAD – Secreta37838 as it was improperly ria de Estado do Estimated Mascarenhas de Infringement notices/ 12/10/2002 used and damaged Meio Ambiente e R$ 1,979.87 Enterprise Subject Issuing agency amount as at Moraes HPP date Progress of 100 meters away Desenvolvimento 12/30/2010 proceedings: FURNAS from Mascarenhas de Sustentável. contested on 3/19/2010 Moraes HPP Hydraulic oil spill in Environmental the generating unit Environmental UHE Porto Infringement Notice Nº of the 2nd turbine, Ibama (MG) R$ 22,044.19 Infringement Notice Colômbia Lack of yearly 6° Distrito DNPM 561641 downstream the no. 1670/2009 reservoir. fee payment per Departamento 8/28/2009 Batalha HPP hectare in the 2nd Nacional de ProR$ 2,107.34 Progress of Proceedings: Secretaria de year of research dução Mineral Defense presented Meio Ambiente e authorization. Environmental Earthwork, tree on 9/23/2009, fax no. Desenvolvimento Infringement Notice Nºs Angra/Rio II TL cutting and R$ 459.33 DGA.C.0143.2009. Urbano do Muni2163 and 2164 embankment. cípio de Angra dos SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Reis. Environmental Infringement Notice No. 5.730 Progress of the proceedings: Itumbiara 12/30/2009: Fish kill and Agência Goiânia HPP Proc. no. R$ 9,690,896.27 No amendments. unlicensed operation. do Meio Ambiente 10/09/2009: Defense 5601.00650/2004-2 was not argued. FURNAS FURNAS Administrative Appeal filed, still pending sentence A32 A33 APPENDICES Emergency Assistance Plan (PAE) Enterprises including PAE Adrianópolis, Angra, Araraquara, Bandeirantes, Brasília Geral, Brasília Sul, Campos, Foz do Iguaçu, Grajaú, Guarulhos, Gurupi, Ibiúna, Imbariê, Itaberá, Ivaiporã, Jacarepaguá, Macaé, Substations Mogi das Cruzes, Poços de Caldas, Rio Verde, Rocha Leão, Samambaia, São José, Tijuco Preto, Viana and Vitória Hydroelectric Corumbá, Furnas, Itumbiara, Luiz Carlos Barreto, Manso, Marimbondo, Mascarenhas de power plants Morais, Porto Colômbia and Serra da Mesa Thermoelectric Santa Cruz power plant Conservation and efficiency discriminated by activity (R$ thousand) Type of enterprise 2010 2009 2008 Education – Energy conservation and rational consumption Investments – own resources 6,700 5,777 5,204 Investments – third parties 301 250 393 Total resources 7,001 6,027 5,596 Public illumination Investments – own resources 0 0 0 Investments – third parties 0 8,146* 0 Total resources 0 8,146 0 Environmentally-related legal actions Public utility Investments – own resources 0 0 0 Above R$ 1,000 thousand Investments – third parties 0 0 0 Proceeding Federal Court Subject Estimated amount Total resources 0 0 0 R$ 550,000,000.00 Own premises (in-company) Deposit was not eﬀected Investments – own resources 165** 534 150 Operating license of Serra da Mesa as the plead requiring 2004.35.00.018667-7 8th HPP annulled or rendered invalid until Investments – third parties 0 0 0 adjustment down to requirements are complied with. R$ 200,000.00 was accepted Total resources 165 534 150 by the court. *Reluz Goiânia – Funded by Eletrobras and Goiânia City Hall. **Energy optimization at the Advisory of Energy Conservation Studies and Programs and at Building P, at FURNAS Central Oﬃce. Population survey and resettling the 2005.35.00.022488-0 2nd population aﬀected by Serra da Mesa R$ 26,798,727.23 HPP. Conservation and rational energy consumption (R$ thousand) Education 2010 2009 2008 Investments – own resources 3,994 3,444 2,930 Lawsuit filed by the Federal Department Investments – third parties 301 0 343 of Prosecution of the State of Rondônia Total resources 4,295 3,444 3,273 2006.41.00.004844-1 3rd R$1 ,537,899.10 against Enersus, FURNAS, ANEEL and Ibama. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Public Proceeding – Simplício HPP Operating license was unauthorized 2010.5113.000406-9 1st R$ 5,289,600.15 as other legal requirements are still pending. Note: Amounts adjusted on 12/30/2010 based on the Selic rate as established by Art. 24, sole paragraph, Normative Resolution Nº 63, of 5/12/2004, according to § 5º, Art. 17, Appendix I, Decree Nº 2335, of October 6, 1997, already under Eletrobras contingency headings. FURNAS FURNAS A34 A35 APPENDICES Energetic efficiency Impacts, life cycle and environmental preservation 2010 2009 Conservation and bio-diversity Public illumination Conservation Unit/Indigenous land State Managing Authority Area (ha) Energy saved (MWh/year) (1) 0 6,244.87 Environmental Protection Area Cabeceiras do Rio MT SEMA 473,411 Reduction of peak demand (kW) 0 1.430 Cuiabá Unincurred cost due to energy saved (R$) 0 1,394,104 Environmental Protection Area Foz do Rio Santa Teresa TO SEMA 50,000 Public utility Environmental Protection Area Ilha do Bananal/Cantão TO Naturatins 16,780 Energy saved (MWh/yer) (2) 6,871.35 0 Area of High Ecological Interest Floresta da Cicuta RJ Naturatins 131 Reduction of peak demand (kW) 0 0 Ecological Station Itaberá SP ICMBio 180 Unincurred cost due to energy saved (R$) 1,586,382.78 0 Ecological Station Itapeva SP IF/SP 106 Own premises (FURNAS) Mário Xavier National Forest RJ IF/SP 493 Energy saved (MWh/year)(3) 6.70 353.91 Guará Ecological Park DF ICMBio 310 Reduction of peak demand (kW)(3) 2.66 239 JK Ecological Park GO SEMARH 2,311 Unincurred cost due to energy saved (R$)(4) 1,546.82 86,081 Municipal Ecological Park Fazenda Atalaia RJ Semma 235 Olhos D'Água Ecological Park DF SEMARH 16 (1) Reluz Goiânia – Funded by Eletrobras on behalf of Goiânia City Hall. State Park Estadual Águas do Cuiabá MT SEMA 10,600 (2) Considering only the number of students who attended FURNAS/Procel in Schools, and that Eletrobras steems State Park Altamiro de Moura Pacheco GO SEMARH 3,100 that each person qualiﬁed by the Program The Nature of Landscape – Energy: A life Resource saves up to 12.50 kWh/month. And considering that in 2010, 45,809 students were qualiﬁed, savings totaled 572.61 MWh/month, or State Park Gruta da Lagoa Azul MT SEMA 12,512 6,871.35 MWh/year. State Park Serra do Mar SP IF/SP 315,000 (3) Refers to internal projects at the Central Oﬀcie. State Park Paraúna GO SEMARH 3,250 (4) In 2009, energy saved in internal projects is based on the tariﬀ charged by the local utility company, Light, in State Park Jurupará SP IF/SP 26,250 november 2009 ( Resolution ANEEL nº 905/09), and does not include the reduction concerning peak demand. State Park Massairo Okamura MT SEMA 5,375 State Park Pirineus GO SEMARH 2,833 State Park São Camilo PR IAP 385 State Park Serra de Caldas Novas GO SEMARH 12,300 State Park Terra Ronca GO SEMARH 50,000 Municipal Park Curió de Paracambi RJ Paracambi City Hall 1,100 Municipal Park Cratera da Colônia SP SVMA/SP 53 National Park Chapada dos Guimarães MT SEMA 251,847 National Park Chapada dos Veadeiros GO ICMBio 61,000 National Park Serra da Bocaina SP/RJ ICMBio 134,000 National Park Serra dos Órgãos RJ ICMBio 20,024 National Park Itatiaia MG/RJ/SP ICMBio 30,000 Municipal Natural Park Fazenda Santa Cecília do Ingá RJ Volta Redonda City Hall 211 Prefeitura Municipal de Natural Park Rota das Garças ES 20 Viana Biological Reserve Poço das Antas RJ ICMBio 5,000 Biological Reserve Tinguá RJ ICMBio 26,000 Biological Reserve União RJ ICMBio 2,923 Indigenous Land Avá-Canoeiro GO FUNAI 38,000 Indigenous Land Barragem SP FUNAI 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Indigenous Land Krukutu SP FUNAI 26 Indigenous Land Jaraguá SP FUNAI 2 FURNAS FURNAS A36 A37 APPENDICES Seedlings 6. Indicators of operational performance and productivity Installation Seedlings Produced 2010 2009 2008 Furnas HPP 80,034 29,765 65,405 Luiz C.B. de Carvalho HPP 41,098 45,382 64,644 Marimbondo HPP 50,858 56,111 53,036 FURNAS system equipment and installations in operation Itumbiara HPP 291,540 93,725 34,664 2010 2009 2008 Funil HPP 17,350 0 0 Generation system Batalha HPP 35,414 0 0 Hydroelectric Power Plants – wholly owned 8 8 8 Simpício HPP 27,227 0 0 • Partnerships 2 2 2 • SPE 5 2 1 Installed Generation Capacity (refers to all HPP) 10,404 9,254(1) 9,114 Number of Hydraulic Generating Units 69 60 58 Expenses and Investments in environmental protection Thermal Plants 2 2 2 Type R$/1000 Installed Generation Capacity (MW) – Thermal(2) 962 962 962 Maintenance in operational processes for environmental improvement Number of Thermal Generating Units 8 8 8 22,687 Transmission system Preservation or recovery of degraded environs 31,747 Number of SE – wholly owned 44 44 44 Environmental Education for Communities 348 • Partnerships 2 2 2 Other environmental projects 7,187 • SPE 5 2 1 Total 61,969 Installed Transformation Capacity (MVA)(3) 103,304 102,012 101,651 Number of Transformers (3) 659 644 642 Number of Static Compensators 4 4 4 Number of Synchronous Compensators 9 9 9 Repopulation of reservoirs with fry TL Length (km)(4) 19,398 19,256 19,278 Year Number of fry released Telecommunication system 2010 266,810 Operating Optical-fiber cables (km) 5,842 5,533 5,139 2009 518,194 Microwave System – Number of Stations 84 97 97 2008 416,738 Microwave System Length (km) 3,532 4,173 4,173 Supervision, control and data acquisition system Number of SE and Plants serviced by Local Supervision Systems 49 52 48 Number of SE and Plants serviced by the Open System of Energy 46 44 40 Management (SAGE) (1) Amount revised and amended, reported otherwise in 2009. (2) Units of Santa Cruz TPP running on diesel. (3) Nominal power greater or equal to 2.5 MVA and nominal voltage greater or equal to 13.8 kV. (4) A 31-km long decrease is observed due to the de-phasing of 138 kV Luiz Carlos Barreto de Carvalho-Mascarenhas de Moraes TL, as well as an increase of 9 km due to the energization of 345 kV Luiz Carlos Barreto de CarvalhoEstreito Nova Circuito 2 TL (5 km) and Furnas-Estreito Nova (4 km). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 FURNAS FURNAS A38 A39 APPENDICES Generating units – Installed capacity, ownership and assured energy Technical data Installed Assured Energy (Average MW) Inputs, production capacity, sales, losses 2010 2009 2008 Plant Ownership (%) Capacity (MW) 2010 2009 2008 Number of consumers serviced – free 12 12 16 Hydroelectric – Full Ownership Number of own employees 4,906 4,758 4,724 Itumbiara 2,082 100 1,015 1,015 1,015 Number of outsourced personnel 1,591 1,676 1,723 Marimbondo 1,440 100 726 726 726 Energy generated (GWh) 38,352 37,309(1) 35,362 Furnas 1,216 100 598 598 598 Energy purchased (GWh) 16,372 15,489 16,356 Luiz Carlos B. de Carvalho Global electric Losses (GWh) 1,050 100 495 495 495 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% (Estreito) Electric losses – total (%) over demanded energy Mascarenhas de Moraes 476 100 295 295 295 Energy sold (GWh) 56,712 55,193 55,064 Corumbá I 375 100 209 209 209 Industrial 1,501 1,627 2,236 Porto Colômbia 320 100 185 185 185 Substations (in units)(2) 51 48 46 Funil 216 100 121 121 121 Transmission lines (in km) Hydroelectric – Shared Ownership • Wholly owned 19,398 19,256 19,278 • Partnership • Shared wnership 424 364 364 Serra da Mesa 1,275 48.46 671 671 671 Sale of energy over installed capacity 0.55 0.54 0.54 Manso 212 70 92 92 92 (GWh/MVA X N. hours/year) • Specific Purpose Entity Energy sold per employee (GWh)(3) 8.73 8.58 8.54 Peixe Angical 452 40 271 271 271 Added value/GWh sold 49.61 37.27(1) 48.19 Baguari 140 15 80.2 80.2 (1) Amount revised and amended, and otherwise reported in 2009. Retiro Baixo 82 49 38.5 (2) Includes those substations in shared ownership. Serra do Facão 212.58 49.5 182.4 (3) Includes employees and outsourced personnel. Foz do Chapecó 855 40 432 Thermal – Full Ownership Santa Cruz 932 100 733 496 496 Client profile Roberto Silveira (Campos) 30 100 21 21 21 2010 2009 2008 São Gonçalo (Out of Energy sold according to industrial tariﬀ (GWh) 1,501 1,627 2,236 100 Operation) Total 2.65 2.95 4.06 Notes: FURNAS partners in shared ownership: • Serra da Mesa HPP: CPFL Geração de Energia S.A. (51.54%). • Manso HPP: Produtores Energéticos de Manso S.A. – PROMAN (30%). Commercialized energy • Peixe Angical HPP: EDP Energias do Brasil – EDP Brasil (60%), in SPE ENERPEIXE S.A. Year Energy (GWh) • Baguari HPP: Neoenergia (51%) and Cemig (34%), in SPE Baguari Geração de Energia Elétrica S.A. 2010 56,712 • Retiro Baixo HPP: Orteng (25.5%), Logos (15.5%) and Arcadis (10%), in Retiro Baixo Energética S.A. 2009 55,193 • Serra do Facão HPP: Alcoa (34.97%), Camargo Correa (5.47%) and DME ( 10.09%) in Serra do Facão 2008 55,064 Energia S.A. • Foz do Chapecó HPP: CPFL Geração de Energia S.A. (51%) and CEEE (9%) in Foz do Chapecó Energia. Figures above are required by ANEEL to be expressed in “MVA”. Installed capacity (MW) discriminated by source of energy and the regulatory system. Purchase contracts made with Companies according to invoiced tariff (MWh) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Invoiced until Invoiced until Variation Company DEC. 2010 DEC. 2009 2010/2009 (%) Eletronuclear 12,921,000 12,442,764 3.84 SEMESA 3,025,704 3,025,704 0.00 SPE Serra do Facão Energia (Sefac) 395,143 0 100.00 PROMAN 30,470 30,470 0.00 Total 16,372,317 15,498,938 5.63 FURNAS FURNAS A40 A41 APPENDICES Purchase contracts made with Companies according to contracted demand (MWh) 7. Electric Sector Indicators Invoiced until Invoiced until Variation Company DEC. 2010 DEC. 2009 2010/2009 (%) CIEN 0 8,400,000 (100) Energy Output Empresa Produtora de Energia 0 4,800,000 (100) Ltda. Generation 2010 2009 2008 Hydraulic (%) 99.9 100 99.5 Thermal (%) 0.1 0 0.5 Total (%) 100 100 100 Length of transmission lines under FURNAS full ownership (km) Voltage (kV) 2010 2009 2008 ≤ 230 4,318 4,318 4,349 Hydraulic Generation 345 6,221 6,078 6,070 Hydroelectric Power Generated Volume (km³) Energy generated 500 4,549 4,549 4,549 Plant (GWh) ± 600 (CC) 1,612 1,612 1,612 Furnas 28.44 6,183 750 2,698 2,698 2,698 Mascarenhas de Moraes 30.11 5,251 Total 19,398 19,255 19,278 Luiz Carlos Barreto 31.07 3,112 Porto Colômbia 37.08 2,073 Marimbondo 57.02 7,580 Corumbá 9.26 1,581 TL in shared ownership in operation Itumbiara 46.42 8,352 FURNAS stake Operation Funil 8.50 1,265 Transmission Line Voltage (kV) Total (km) (%) Onset Serra da Mesa* 22.73 680 Irapé-Araçuaí** 230 61* 24.5 2007 Manso* 4.80 6,367 Itutinga-Juiz de Fora** 345 140* 25 2007 Peixe Angical* 40.55 2,600 Montes Claros-Irapé 345 139* 24 2006 *Shared ownership. Peixe Angical-Peixe 2*** 500 20 40 2006 Furnas-Pimenta 2 345 63 49 2010 *After construction completion, TLs length showed marginal diﬀerences if compared to the concession contracts with ANEEL. Net energy output as discriminated by primary source of energy (GWh) **TL in the Federal Government´s PAC. Source of energy 2010 2009 2008 ***In 2008, Peixe Angical-Gurupi TL was sectioned, originating the TLs of Peixe Angical-Peixe 2, with Hydraulic 38,313 37,309 35,185 20 km length, under the ownership of SPE ENERPEIXE S.A. and Peixe 2-Gurupi TL, with 73 km length, under INTESA ownership. Thermal 39 0 177 Note: FURNAS partners in installation ownership: • Irapé-Araçuaí TL: ALUSA Companhia Técnica de Energia Elétrica (41%) Cemig (24.5%) and Orteng Average availability factor as discriminated by source of energy Equipamentos e Sistemas (10%), in SPE Companhia Transirapé de Transmissão. • Itutinga-Juiz de Fora TL: ALUSA Companhia Técnica de Energia Elétrica (41%), Companhia Energética Source of energy % de Minas Gerais (Cemig) (24%) and Orteng Equipamentos e Sistemas (10%), in SPE Companhia Hydraulic 91.75 Transudeste de Transmissão. • Montes Claros-Irapé TL: Companhia Técnica de Engenharia Elétrica-ALUSA Companhia Técnica de Thermal 31.20 Energia Elétrica (41%), Cemig (25%) and Orteng Equipamentos e Sistemas (10%), in SPE Companhia Transleste de Transmissão. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • Peixe Angical-Peixe 2 TL: Energias do Brasil (60%), in SPE ENERPEIXE S.A. • Furnas-Pimenta 2 TL: Cemig (51%) in SPE Centro-Oeste de Minas. Fuel consumption for thermal generation Primary fuel Secondary fuel Energy generaTPP Type Consumption Type Consumption ted (MWh) Santa Cruz Special Diesel 1,042,094 l (UG11 and UG21) 3,299 Santa Cruz B1 fuel oil 0t Diesel 29,117 l FURNAS FURNAS A42 A43 Photos Page 5 – Upstream view of Santo Antônio (RO) HPP small scale reservoir ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Page 7 – Transmission line tower in São José substation (RJ) Page 68 – Doce river Baguari HPP (MG) Page 8 – Children partaking in the social project TransFormar, in Magé (RJ) Page 73 – Doce river Baguari HPP (MG) Page 76 – São Marcos river – Batalha HPP (GO/MG) WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Page 18 – Paraíba do Sul river – Simplício HPP (RJ) Page 81 – Waste collection boxes for waste separation at Funil HPP, in Itatiaia (RJ) Page 21 – São José substation (RJ) Page 82 – Birds rescued by the Wild Animal Sorting Center at Santo Antônio HPP (RO) Page 87 – Santa Cruz TPP (RJ) ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Page 22 – Turbine assembly at Santo Antonio HPP (RO) GRI TABLE AND IBASE 2010 SOCIAL BALANCE Page 27 – Construction of Santo Antonio HPP (RO) Page 32 – Machinery and earthworks in the construction of Simplício HPP (RJ) Page 90 Social Project Aldeia da Cidadania, at the Community Center in Vila Santa Tereza, in Belford Roxo (RJ) Page 33 – Company´s employees at Santo Antonio HPP construction site (RO) Page 111 – Social Project Oficina da Ciranda Page 35 – Metallization of non-conductive samples for electron microscopy analysis, Department of Support and Page 115 – Construction of tower for the execution of R&D project (RJ) Technical Control (GO) Appendices TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Page 36 – Santo Antônio HPP (RJ) Page A4 – Children visiting the Central Oﬃce (RJ) during the Environment Week Page 38 – São Marcos river – Serra do Facão HPP (GO) Page A5 – Seedlings at Batalha HPP (GO/MG) Page 43 – Concrete laboratory (GO) Page A8 – Concrete laboratory (GO) Page A19 – Construction of the main spillway of Santo Antônio HPP (RO) SOCIETY AND COMMUNITY Page A21 – Assembly of generators at Baguari HPP (MG) Page 44 – Social Project Aldeia da Cidadania, at the Community Center in Vila Santa Tereza, in Belford Roxo (RJ) Page 47 – Garbage collector benefitted by selective waste collection program (RJ) Page A34 – Maned wolf rescued by the Wild Animal Sorting Center at Santo Antonio HPP (RO) Page 48 – Children at an exhibition at the FURNAS Cultural Hall (RJ) Page A36 – Luiz Carlos Barreto de Carvalho HPP (MG) Page 54 – Transmission lines in Foz do Iguaçu (PR) Page A38 – Doce river Baguari HPP (MG) Page 57 – Meeting at the “Integration Nucleus Project” attended by dwellers of João Carro and the settlements of Quilombo and Mamede Rodher, in the Chapada dos Guimarães (MT) Page 61 – Seedling farm in Foz do Iguaçu substation (PR) All pictures are FURNAS Image Archives copyrighted. Page 63 – Music show by Nós do Morro group at the re inauguration cerimony of FURNAS Cultural Hall (RJ) Page 65 – Child partaking in the social project TransFormar, in Magé (RJ) Page 67 Irenita Albina da Silva, benefited by a social project in Manso Multiple Usage, in the Chapada dos Guimarães (MT) region PUBLISHER FURNAS Centrais Elétricas S.A. EDITORIAL COORDINATION Assessoria de Promoção da Cidadania Empresarial – AEM.P Coordenação de Responsabilidade Social – CS.P EDITORIAL PROJECT Martha Pavese Porto and Lilian Saback GRAPHIC PROJECT Flávia da Matta Design INTERNAL SUPPORT Coordenação de Comunicação Social – CO.P Pictures Núcleo de Programação Visual – AEM.P Lay out and graphic design Text composed at Gráfica e Editora Sir Speedy, Rio de Janeiro (RJ), in October 2011. Circulation: 200 issues in Portuguese, 100 in English and 100 in Spanish.
