A. Hatzopoulos S.A. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress | 2011 SINCE 2010, A. HATZOPOULOS S.A. IS A PROUD MEMBER OF UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT. WITH OUR PARTICIPATION WE EMBRACE, SUPPORT AND ARE COMMITTED TO KEEP ALIGNING OUR BUSINESS STRATEGIES AND OPERATIONS WITH THE UNGC’ S 10 PRINCIPLES, CONTRIBUTING TO THE INITIATIVE’S OVERARCHING MISSION OF HELPING BUILD A MORE SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL ECONOMY*. 26th October str. 162 54628 – Thessaloniki, Greece Tel. 2310 551801 – Fax: 2310 540690 www.hatzopoulos.gr * A. Hatzopoulos S.A. official newsletter – October 2010 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Thessaloniki, July 26th 2012 Meritocracy – Knowledge – Humanity – Quality – Ethos Hatzopoulos S.A.’s commitment to social, environmental, human responsibility begins with the foundation of the company itself. Two years age, this commitment became public with our participation to the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative. I am pleased to confirm our continuous support and active implementation of the ten universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact focus on the four areas of human and labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. The core values that our own company has set and stays loyal to also place Society, Humans, Environment and Transparency in the centre of our business activities. As we celebrated our 80-year anniversary in 2011, we celebrated 80 years of a constant effort to achieve excellence as well as 80 years of contribution to our society through active initiatives that go above and beyond any legal requirements. In these difficult financial conditions that affect everyone on a global level, we consider as moral obligation to our society and stakeholders to place even greater emphasis on the implementation of our principles. We contemplate the active implementation of the those principles an integral part of our business practice and this statement presents the multiple ways that our commitment and our support to Global Compact becomes action day by day. 1 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 COMPANY INFORMATION Year of foundation: 1931 Sector of Activity: Flexible Packaging Production Sites: 2 in Thessaloniki Number of employees: 233 (2011) Our Philosophy: Adding Value for our customers through packaging excellence Our Mission: To provide sustainable, innovative, high quality and competitive packaging solutions, by using green development and production processes, having as a result safe and best in class packaging for the consumer. 2 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 THE 10 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND OUR ACTIONS Human rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Humanity is one of the core values of A. Hatzopoulos S.A. Our company fully supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the relevant national and European legislation with reference to the fundamental rights of every individual, such as protection of privacy, freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of association, nondiscrimination and the right to be heard. We are not complicit in any kind of human rights violations while conducting our business activities and our main policy is to choose companies to cooperate with, which are not violating in any manner the internationally proclaimed human rights. Our commitments are not only reflected on our internal employment policies and partnership standards, but additionally our company, as a corporate citizen, provides active financial support to organizations dedicated to human rights protection and supporting the non-privileged. On a monthly basis we contribute to the work of the international medical humanitarian organization “Doctors without Borders” towards their mission to assist people whose survival is threatened by violence, neglect, or catastrophes. We have also been recognized for our financial and moral support to the Centre for the Autistic – AHTIDA, the organization founded in Thessaloniki by parents and relatives of autistic children, as well as to the Greek Food Bank, member of the European Federation of Food Banks, with mission to give each person in Europe access to a sufficient and balanced diet, through the fight against waste and call for solidarity. Our company has always expressed its interest to contribute also to the noble goal of protection of the Greek historical and cultural inheritance, while our activities reflect our simultaneous respect towards the diverse national cultures and traditions of our business partners. We support financially the Museum of the Macedonian Struggle in Thessaloniki, which serves as a repository for all manner of relics and 3 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 material documenting this significant chapter in Greece's modern history. In addition, we promote co-operations with academic institutions in Greece and abroad, being sponsors of the Institute for Balkan studies and offering foreign students and scholars the opportunity to attend and cultivate their knowledge on Greek history, culture and language with scholarships. The contribution of our company towards an advanced, cultivated society is being fulfilled with our membership and support to the Greek Centre for Cinema Studies and Research. Hatzopoulos S.A. is also a founding member of the Northern Greece Entrepreneurs Cultural Society, a non-profit organization, founded in 1995 by a group of Thessalonikibased entrepreneurs, aiming to intervene and contribute to the cultural policies of Northern Greece by launching numerous exhibitions, conferences, scientific projects and publishing significant academic works. 4 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 Labour rights 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. A. Hatzopoulos S.A. respects the freedom of association and recognizes the right to collective bargaining. We respect the right of our employees as of any individual to participate in unions in accordance with the national laws, while the members of the Regional Union are welcome to visit our premises, discuss with our employees and distribute material and publications. We do not tolerate forced or compulsory labour, excessive overtime, hard behaviour and harassment. We definitely comply with national laws and requirements concerning minimum age of employment, we would never employ any child or teenager in our workforce and we remunerate all overtime work. Meritocracy is the first core value of our company, while our equal opportunities standards and commitments are applied and reflected on all of our internal processes and systems (recruitment, training, development and promotion of employees). Starting even with the employment application form and the Employee Handbook, we state that we are absolutely committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and to avoiding unlawful discrimination. No job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment because of their gender, marital status, sexual orientation, colour, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, age, or any other conditions or requirements which are irrelevant. The employees in our company are treated fairly, with respect and humanity, compensated financially and morally according to their achievements and developed in a safe environment of motivation and no discrimination. We are regularly audited by our customers as well as by independent institutions on our labour practices as well as our procedures regarding training, evaluation of our employees. 5 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 Employees’ benefits Within the last year, we have invested more than 270,000 € to ensure a working environment that goes above and beyond the highest labor standards and rights. Employee Benefits Allocation 120.000 89.251 90.000 67.266 56.994 60.000 38.172 30.000 20.009 0 Dressing Internal & Daily Snacks Private Health Other Benefits External Insurance & Training Medicins Our extra employee’s benefits include:  Private health insurance  Marriage allowance  Child birth allowance  School allowance  Long tenure allowance  Free daily snack in the company premises  Meal tickets Blood Bank Our company maintains in addition a blood bank as every year there is a voluntarily blood donation in the company premises. In case of any medical emergency concerning any employee or family member, our company doctor will arrange the transfer of the blood to the relative hospital. Employees Groups Our employees’ breakdown according to their age, gender, tenure and education groups is illustrated below: 6 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 Age Groups >55 years < 25 years 6,3% 2,7% 45-55 years 25-35 years 21,0% 31,7% 23-45 years 38,4% Tenure > 20 years 7,6% 15-20 years 14,7% < 5 years 41,5% 10-15 years 12,1% 5-10 years 24,1% The average age of our workforce is 39.7 years old, while the average tenure is 8.2 years. 7 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 Gender Breakdown Women 19,6% Men 80,4% Education Level Post-Graduate & PHD 9 University 41 Secondary 174 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 8 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 Internal & external training Hatzopoulos S.A. ensures that every employee is trained and developed according to their customized needs and ambitions. Every new employee attends an induction training program, especially designed to cover all subjects that affect their daily job. Additional training is also provided according to the Annual Training Plan or according to emerging business needs. In the last 12 months, 2,955 training hours (indicating an increase of 103% compared to the previous 12-month period) have been dedicated to internal as well as external training, covering a variety of subjects as presented below. 1.540 Training Hours (Last 12 months) Indicative Training Courses 1.516  Raw materials checking 1.520  Health & safety 1.500  Atlantis ERP  HΑACP / ISO 1.480  Excel 1.460  Quality control 1.439  Advanced Flexography 1.440  Customer Service Skills 1.420  Coaching & Leadership Skills  PLC 1.400  Negotiation Skills Internal External  Packaging Legislation Employee Satisfaction Survey The yearly Employee Satisfaction Survey guarantees that the voice of each employee is heard and appreciated by the company management team. The questions cover a broad area of issues, such as relationships with colleagues and supervisors, need for training, job satisfaction etc. The anonymity and confidentiality of the participants is guaranteed as the voting takes place in voting boxes and / or online, through an anonymous online application. The enthusiastic approach of our employees to the survey is reflected to the participation rates which are quite high every year, while a comprehensive report is communicated by the Human Resources Division to all employees following the survey. Last year’s survey was performed in June 2011. Consisting of 25 closed-type questions based on the Likert Scale, two multiple choice questions as well as a space for comments, its results show our employees’ satisfaction with the working environment that we provide and their commitment to continue to contribute to the achievement of the organizational goals. 9 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 Performance Evaluation System The Performance Evaluation System (PES) of A. Hatzopoulos S.A., aims at the maximization of the employees’ performance through the alignment of Corporate and Individual targets, as well as the clarification of the training needs, so that all employees have the chance to improve. Each employee, according to their job family, is well aware of what is expected by them in terms of performance. At the beginning of each semester, weighted individual Qualitative as well as Quantitative targets are set and the evaluation results are checked and monitored by the Human Resources Division that guarantees the accurate implementation of the process. The implementation of the Performance Evaluation System is an important tool not only for achieving the company targets but also for ensuring that all employees are treated in a fair and objective way. The system ensures that all major decisions regarding employees are based on an objective monitoring of the performance and achievements. 10 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 Environment 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Respecting the environment, the ecosystem and its resources is the fundamental priority of Hatzopoulos S.A. and a significant part of our philosophy and culture. We put this philosophy into practice by taking environmentally responsible and preventive actions every day for saving resources and minimizing the environmental impacts that our activities may have in accordance with the ISO 14001:2004 certification. Our programs include raw and secondary materials’ recycling as well as waste that is inevitably produced from our daily operations. During the last 12 months, we have recycled 91.7 tons of plastic, 520.08 tons of wood and 49.2 tons of paper. Since 2010, more than 1,770 tons of waste has been sent for recycling, while batteries and metals are also recycled on a regular basis. We use integrated information systems to minimize paper consumption, our employees are trained to follow environmentally sensitive practices, printing of electronically available material and correspondence is discouraged and preventive maintenance on equipment and building is regularly performed. Our company’s contribution towards sustainable development also extends to the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendlier technologies. The R&D team of Hatzopoulos S.A. intensively works on the development of alternative packaging solutions 11 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 and thinner material structures for our customers which results in less raw materials need and usage. Our efforts expand also to the development of new applications in flexible packaging such as re-closable packaging solutions which significantly contribute to food protection and food waste minimization. Additionally our culture of environmental responsibility is reflected on our systematic efforts to measure and minimize our emissions to the environment and reduce our products’ carbon footprint. For this reason we have launched the implementation of Measurement of Sustainable Values of the company (Sustainable Values Score Card) and we participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project by disclosing information regarding the company’s strategy in subjects related to the global climate change. Our total score placed us in the 2nd Quartile of all 709 companies participating, significantly higher than the average total, giving an objective positive indication regarding gas emissions of our company associated with global warming, setting up goals and action plans for the reduction of those emissions. In parallel, our company’s investments in solvent recovery and solvent abatement systems focus on the same target. A state-of-the-art air-purification system with solvent recovery bas been installed at the new factory in Kalohori. The system operates by means of activated carbon adsorption, with annual capacity of 1,500 tons of recovered solvents, mainly ethyl acetate. Since the beginning of 2011 the solvent recovery system has been equipped with a new distillation column, which also allows ethanol separation. This way Hatzopoulos S.A. achieves the re-use of the 95% of the solvents required for the printing and the lamination processes, drastically reducing its emissions to the environment. 12 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 Anti-corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Ethos has always been the fundamental value that runs through the 80-year long history and business activity of A. Hatzopoulos S.A. We are fundamentally opposed to any kind of corruption and bribery, our activities conform in total with the applicable law, and this is one of our major criteria in our selection process of a new supplier, customer or employee. Our procedures safeguard transparency in every single transaction with our internal and external stakeholders. We have an open pricelist policy; all cost factors that affect our prices are discussed and presented in detail to our customers on a regular basis. Our credibility as a supplier and business partner is highly rated, appreciated and expressed by our customers through our yearly customer satisfaction survey. Additionally, Hatzopoulos S.A. is since July 2009 an active member of Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange), a non-profit organization based in London for businesses committed to continuous improvement of the ethical performance of their supply chains. The platform of SEDEX offers companies the data to measure performance regarding corporate responsibility. Topics such as labour relations, safety and hygiene, environmental and business activities are in the scope of SEDEX. Through its secure database we store and share data concerning our company, including self-assessment, audit reports and corrective action reports and status. Lastly, all official documents are issued by our integrated ERP providing for total consistency and transparency (according to our ISO 9001:2008 certified system), while our most recent financial data are available to our partners and to the public (publications of the Greek Industry yearly guide, ICAP reports and researches, etc…). 13 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012 Reporting period This report focuses on our actions from August 2011 until August 2012, including some older and most recent activities. Publication Current issue: July 2012 Next issue: Scheduled for August 2013 Contact Details: 19, Arkadiou Street 57009, Kalohori, Thessaloniki, GREECE Τel. : +30 2310 754525 Fax: + 30 2310 755231 www.hatzopoulos.gr Contact Person: Theodoros Panagiotopoulos HR Manager 14 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. – United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress, 2012
