Sustainability Report 2011 Report facts REPORTING PERIOD 1.1.–31.12.2011 The ﬁrst stand-alone Sustainability report for 2010 was published in April 2011. BOUNDARY OF THE REPORT Data is reported for each plant according to the length of time it has been part of the Ahlstrom Group. This Sustainability report has been prepared with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative 3.1 guidelines to the level B. FEEDBACK AND QUESTIONS sustainability@ahlstrom.com Company facts PRESIDENT & CEO Jan Lång BUSINESS Ahlstrom is a high performance materials company, partnering with leading businesses around the world to help them stay ahead. CUSTOMERS Well-known global companies HEADQUARTERS Helsinki, Finland MANUFACTURING PLANTS 33 plants in 14 countries (as of 31.12.2011) SALES OFFICES 32 in 28 countries EMPLOYEES 5,185 employees in 28 countries on six continents NET SALES EUR 1.6 billion in 2011 (continuing operations) LISTED on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki since 2006 FOUNDED in 1851 You can ﬁnd out more about us at www.ahlstrom.com. Contents 1 | Who we are 24 | People and culture 2 | Key figures and targets 26 | Ahlstrom as an employer 3 | Business areas 28 | One Ahlstrom 4 | CEO’s message 30 | Health and safety 5 | 2011 Highlights 32 | Community impacts 6 | Governance and management 33 | Code of Conduct and human rights 7 | Where do we operate in the world? 8 | Core purpose, Vision, Values, Brand promise 9 | Our sustainability framework 10 | Interacting with our stakeholders 12 | Materiality assessment 34 | Supply chain 14 | Our products with purpose 36 | Responsible sourcing 20 | Sustainability in product design 38 | Environmental management in manufacturing 44 | Appendix 1 Renewed Code of Conduct 46 | Appendix 2 Adherence to GRI3.1 47 | Appendix 3 Adherence to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 48 | Our history of corporate responsibility Who we are Ahlstrom is a high performance materials company, partnering with leading businesses around the world to help them stay ahead. We make products that people use every day, both in the home and industry. We have a leading market position in all four of our business areas, Building and Energy, Filtration, Food and Medical, and Label and Processing. 1 Key figures and targets Our sustainability performance Key financial figures and targets PERFORMANCE TARGETS EUR million 2011* 2010 * Change, % 2009 SOCIAL IN 2011 FOR 2012 Net sales 1,607.2 1,636.3 -1.8 1,596.1 Achieve Zero Lost Time Accidents, Accident Frequency Rate 0 51 LTA's, AFR 5.11 17 LTA’s, AFR 1.98 Operating profit / loss 20.1 46.5 -56.7 -14.6 Complete compliance training for all key white-collar personnel 456 employees 100% Operating profit excluding non-recurring items 49.7 66.8 -25.6 39.8 Complete Code of Conduct training for all white-collar employees N/A 100% % of net sales 3.1 4.1 2.5 Human Potential Index 59 62 Profit / loss before taxes -6.6 18.8 -40.1 Goal and development discussion for all employees 72% 100% Profit / loss for the period -12.2 10.9 -32.9 Employee turnover 4.2% 5% Earnings per share, EUR -0.38 0.11 -0.72 Key strategic development program completion 33 employees 50 employees Return on capital employed, % 2.0 5.2 -1.1 for targeted employees Capital expenditure excluding acquisitions* 66.4** 47.2 ** 40.6 63.8 Gearing ratio, % 38.2** 46.9 ** 57.7 ENVIRONMENTAL Net cash from operative activities 83.7 167.5 -50.0 209.6 Achieve zero waste to landfill by 2015 14.6 kg/T 13.5 kg/T Dividend per share, EUR 1.30*** 0.88 47.7 0.55 Reduce water intake by 5% in 5 years 42.8 m3/T 43.1 m3/T Cut electricity usage by 5% in 5 years 1.037 MWh/T 1.000 MWh/T *Continuing operations Cut fuel energy usage by 5% in 5 years 10.37 GJ/T 11.59 GJ/T **Including discontinued operations ***The Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting. Consisting of a dividend Cut CO2 emissions by 10% in 5 years 553 kg/T 565 kg/T of EUR 0.87 per share and an extra dividend of EUR 0.43 per share. Have 100% of production capacity ISO 14001 certified 98% 99% ECONOMIC Our target is to achieve at least 13% Return On Capital Employed (ROCE), which for 2011 was only 2%. 2 Business areas Net sales by business area Operating profit by business area Building and Energy 18% Building and Energy 3% Filtration 20% Filtration 45% Food and Medical 21% Food and Medical 24% Label and Processing 41% Label and Processing 28% Building and Energy Filtration Food and Medical Label and Processing is one of the leading players is the global leader in is one of the leading players is one of the largest suppliers of globally for materials used in walltransportation filtration materials. globally for materials used in specialty papers globally. It has coverings, floorings and windmill It has plants in Brazil, China, teabags, food packaging, plants in Brazil, France, Germany blades. It has plants in Belgium, Finland, Italy, Spain, South Korea masking tape and medical and Italy. China, Finland, France, Russia and the U.S. gowns and drapes. It has plants and Sweden. in China, Finland, France, India, the U.K. and the U.S. Strategic priorities Strategic priorities Strategic priorities Strategic priorities To strengthen wallcovering mateTo grow next generation To expand the range of sustainable To focus on cost effective materials­­­ rial presence particularly in Asia applications and invest in global products and strengthen global with sustainable features. and expand the differentiated supply platform in transportation presence in food applications. offering. filtration. To grow release liners globally. To expand the differentiated To strengthen position in cushionTo grow substantially and establish product offering and strengthen vinyl flooring materials globally. global presence in air, water and global platform in medical life science materials. applications. To align supply platform for reinforcements’ materials for wind energy and marine industries to global trends. Customers Customers Customers Customers construction, energy, automotive, water, food, beverage, labeling, food and industrial fabric, marine and energy, healthcare and medical, healthcare and packaging, graphics, cosmetics transportation industries food industries construction industries and pharmaceutical packaging, printing, furniture and construction industries 3 CEO’s message We believe our role, as a business, is to offer our customers products that make a positive contribution to their own sustainability performance, while achieving improvements in our own. This ambition is at the heart of everything we do, from our management of resources to our membership of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, to our investment in new environmentally-friendly products. As the world’s population rises and concentrates increasingly in cities, we see significant opportunities to contribute to a more sustainable future. We can do this by developing products that help the world save resources, and make everyday life easier, healthier, and greener, from air filters, to components for wind turbines, to specialized medical fabrics. Our recent acquisition of 49 percent of Porous Power Technologies, a US company developing separators to lithium batteries used in electric cars, is another excellent example. Unlike many companies of our size, we already use a significant proportion of renewable raw materials – 87 percent in 2011 – and this continues to rise as we apply our expert knowledge to make more and more products from renewable fibers. Our challenges as a business relate to the fact that ours is a resource-intensive industry, and those resources are becoming scarcer, and competition for them more intense. Our response is to become more efficient in our use of those resources every year, and to continually look for new ways to consume less energy, use less water, and produce 4 2011 Highlights We created a new vision ‘Inspiring people, passionate about new ideas, growing with our customers.’ page 8 less waste – and help our customers do the same. We have important initiatives underway in all of these areas, including a plan renewed our Code of Conduct. to reduce our waste to landfill to zero by 2015. There are more details We believe that our business dealings should not harm people, the environment or society at large. page 33, 44–45 on all of these initiatives later in this report. In other ways we are similar to all other major businesses across the joined the World Business Council for Sustainable Development world, as we face the challenges of difficult economic conditions, and its Sustainable Forest Products Industry working group. page 11 volatile and rising commodity prices, changes in environmental regulation, and the risks as well as the opportunities of expanding our business into emerging markets. I am confident that we will address these issues – as well as the specific challenges of sustainability – in developed our own Life Cycle Assessment expertise the same spirit that Ahlstrom has demonstrated since it was founded at our Research Center. page 22–23 in 1851. We have always been a responsible company, and one that has adapted successfully to change, and these principles are made explicit both in our updated Code of Conduct, which we launched reduced our waste generation by 3.9% over 24 months. page 38 this year, and in our values, which are Acting responsibly, Creating value, and Learning and renewing. These values have helped Ahlstrom become the internationally successful company it is today, reached zero waste to landfill from 9 plants. page 41 and they will help us meet the sustainability challenges of tomorrow. reached zero lost time accidents in 16 plants. page 30 Jan Lång modernized our training program portfolio. page 27 President and CEO made a large donation to advance human rights in India. page 33 5 Governance and management Ahlstrom Group’s Governance Statement HSEA structure, with dedicated persons 2011 is included in the Annual Report. responsible for Europe, the Americas as well as Asian countries. Our sustainability and Health, Safety, Environment and Asset management (HSEA) Everyday sustainability issues are handled governance and management practices by the Group Sustainability function ensure that we integrate environmental together with the Supply Chain and and social responsibility into our daily business areas, who are responsible for operations. We employ several tools to the operational management of their do this, such as our group-wide policies sustainability issues. The Group function and processes, sustainability targets and convenes regularly with the business areas KPI’s, environmental management systems to monitor performance and implement with third party assurance, internal audits, actions. common sustainability measurement system and reporting. Every manufacturing plant has an identified person responsible for health, Our Sustainability function is tasked with safety and environmental matters. the development and implementation of Likewise, plants with a Chain-of-Custody our activities in this area. It is led by the VP, certificate each have a person responsible Sustainability, and VP, HSEA, who report to for forest certifications. Matters of social the EVP Sustainability and Human Resources responsibility fall under the remit of plant reporting to the CEO. Ahlstrom’s Executive management together with Human Management Team (EMT) is responsible for Resources function, who work together all policy issues related to sustainability. to ensure that each plant has the strong culture and leadership which are In 2011, we decided to strengthen the necessary to achieve high standards of organization and move to a regional safety and well-being. 6 Where do we operate in the world? 7 20 4 11 1,048 3,324 205,752 563,918 136,120 700,629 23% 53% MANUFACTURING Plants AS OF 31.12.2011 SALES OFFICES EMPLOYEES PER CONTINENT* TONS PURCHASED PER CONTINENT 4 TONS OF PRODUCTION PER CONTINENT 15 % of sales in euro per continent 463 We sell our products across the world with just over half our sales in Europe. We source much of our 2 69,869 Eucalyptus pulp in South America. Compared to 2010, we had fewer manufacturing plants in Europe and 2 33,809 the Americas in 2011, after the sale of the Home and Personal business. 350 13% We increased our manufacturing volumes in Asia by 388,872 112,491 17 percent compared to 2010 and opened two new sales offices there. A new plant opened in Binzhou, China, which will produce glassfiber reinforcements for wind turbine blade manufacturers. 11% * Europe, North and South America, Asia-Pacific and rest of the world 7 Core purpose Ahlstrom is a high performance materials company, partnering with leading businesses around the world to help them stay ahead. Vision Values Brand promise Stay ahead Inspiring people Act responsibly Performance Passionate about new ideas Create value Improvement Growing with customers Learn and renew Certainty Simplicity 8 Our sustainability We put this into practice by organizing our sustainability efforts in the same way as 87 percent of our fiber raw materials came from renewable sources, and all our wood framework we organize our business. And right across fiber suppliers have third party certification Ahlstrom you’ll find the same commitment for their forests. to safety and human rights, and a shared ambition to be a leader in sustainability in Manufacturing our sector. Our manufacturing operations are always We want Ahlstrom to be a successful and striving to be more efficient. It’s all about sustainable business, not just economically, Product development doing more with less, and saving both but socially and environmentally. Everything It all starts with product development. We money and resources. At the same time we make products that are designed to be want to minimize our emissions to air, water we do is underpinned by this belief, from the useful, but thanks to the high proportion of and soil. way we manage our supply chain, to the way renewable raw materials we use they are we manage our workplaces. also sustainable. The product development Sales and marketing process is particularly significant in this We are good stewards of the products respect, because as much as 80 percent we make, and pride ourselves on building of a product’s environmental impacts are long-term relationships with our customers. determined in the design phase. They face many of the same sustainability challenges that we do, and we can help Responsible sourcing them meet these challenges by providing Sourcing is an important area for us, more sustainable products, and sharing our given the nature of our products. In 2011 own expertise. Economic, social and environmental FOCUS AREAS in Ahlstrom’s value chain: Product development Responsible sourcing Manufacturing Sales and Marketing Minimized environmental Certified fiber sources Water use Product stewardship impacts of the products Supplier Code of Conduct Waste minimization Sustainable value over their life cycle (LCA) propositions Resource efficiency Social impacts of products Helping customers to Energy use solve their sustainability Minimized emissions to air, challenges water and soil Safety in workplace, human rights, leadership and management practices 9 Interacting with our stakeholders Employee feedback Customer feedback A company-wide employee survey was Customer satisfaction is a strategic KPI run for the second time in 2011 with the for Ahlstrom. We conducted a customer STAKEHOLDER GROUP EXAMPLES OF DIALOGUE ASSESSMENTS purpose of assessing the level of satisfaction, survey measuring loyalty according to Net Face to face meetings and motivation and commitment of the whole Promoter Index in 2011. We were not fully other contacts via the sales force, Customer satisfaction Ahlstrom Group, and giving our people satisfied with the results and have put plans Customers www.ahlstrom.com surveys Joint product development projects Feedback an opportunity to express their views and in place to make improvements. These Annual and Sustainability reports recommendations on ways to improve their include ways to make our customer service Daily contacts own work and workplaces. reflect our values, make it more predictable Performance management process and reliable, and speed up our response Ahlstrom Academy training program The response rate was a very good times. The results were further analyzed by Insite intranet Employee surveys 80.5 percent (74.3% in 2010) with 4,221 business and sales units for specific follow-up Employees Inside magazine Pulse surveys Ahlstrom’s European Dialogue respondents in 17 languages and plans. We aim to repeat the survey twice Internal information meetings Local cooperation with unions and 27 countries. per year. The results were further analyzed employee representatives by business and sales units for specific Face to face meetings and other contacts There was an improvement in all areas this follow-up plans. We aim to repeat the survey via the Global Sourcing organization year, as measured by a Human Potential twice per year. Suppliers Joint seminars (e.g. Sustainability) Supplier surveys Index, with the sole exception of Ahlstrom’s Joint product development projects Joint cost reduction projects image as an employer. This received some Academia critical feedback. Employees appreciate The nature of our business, and the specific Annual General Meeting Annual Capital Markets Day being able to make their own decisions at sustainability challenges we face, make Shareholders www.ahlstrom.com work, and office workers felt stimulated and it vitally important for us to have close and Quarterly conference calls and webinars Media monitoring investors, Annual and Sustainability reports Bi-annual media visibility challenged in their work. relationships with key universities, and analysts, Interim reports report specifically those close to our major plants. media Stock exchange and press releases Production workers felt most satisfied with In Italy, we have collaborated with the Road shows Face to face meetings the levels of cooperation within their teams. University of Turin and in France with Centre Work/life balance was felt to be one of Technique du Papier in Grenoble. In the Practical training and degree theses Ahsltrom’s strengths, and people also felt United States we support North Carolina Research and development projects Preferred employer Academia empowered to try new ideas, which is a State University. A major grant was paid in Recruitment fairs surveys Student visits positive reflection of our values. People are 2010 and 2011 to Aalto University in Finland. also satisfied with the amount of information Society: Local level cooperation with they receive concerning their own work. Over the years, numerous students have government, the authorities regulators, Open house events at production plants completed their degrees by doing their national and local A main area for improvement was team diploma work or thesis at Ahlstrom. In 2011 Public hearings authorities, communities spirit. An important action is to activate we had 39 people working for their M.Sc. Industry peers, goal and development discussions to cover or Ph.D. degrees in our units. We also like to competitors, Participation in trade associations, lobbying everyone, as it seems to have a clear and welcome student visits to our plants. business partners, and joint projects in environmental matters NGO’s, positive connection with job motivation and trade associations engagement. 10 Memberships of associations World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) WBCSD is a coalition of international companies united by a shared commitment to sustainable development. Ahlstrom joined WBCSD in 2011 and became a member of its Sustainable Forest Products Industry working group. www.wbcsd.org Relationships with our stakeholders European Disposable and Nonwovens Association (EDANA) Industry peers, Ahlstrom is an active member of EDANA with a board chairmanship held by Jean-Marie Becker until competitors, 1.11.2011 when he became a Suominen executive due to the divestment of the Home and Personal business partners, NGO’s, business. Ahlstrom is also a member of the Board Working Group of Sustainability and participates in its trade associations Environmental Evaluation Committee and other business area specific committees. www.edana.org customers Society; government, regulators, national and local authorities PaperImpact PaperImpact is the European Speciality Paper Manufacturers’ Association where Ahlstrom employees is a founding member. Ahlstrom is a member of its Board of Directors and leading the Public Affairs and Legislation Working Group. www.paperimpact.org academia National Industry Federations Shareholders and investors, suppliers Ahlstrom has representatives on the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), Copacel (Confederation analysts, media Francaise de l’Industrie des Papiers), Assocarta in Italy and the German Pulp and Paper Association. Sector specific associations Ahlstrom is represented in various sector specific associations, both internationally and in local markets LengTH of the Strength of relationship: The relationship: where it operates, e.g. American Filtration Society, FINAT (the world-wide association for manufacturers shorter to longer weaker to stronger of self-adhesive labels and related products and services) and many others. 11 Materiality assessment Level of concern to stakeholders HIGH Supplier Code of Conduct Product stewardship Reducing environmental impacts of customers with products Renewable raw materials Life Cycle Assessment Code of Conduct Health and safety Better and targeted sustainability information about products Certifications Cost savings through sustainability Stakeholder Availability and price of raw materials engagement Megatrends creating new markets Community Open and transparent communication Employee attraction Efficiency of operations and minimizing emissions Integration of sustainability into business processes and product development MEDIUM Support for Human rights employees Waste management affected by redundancies Emerging market opportunities Well-being Raw material safety Sustainability training to employees Low Low MEDIUM HIGH Level of concern to AHLSTROM 12 Strategic sustainability priorities We commissioned PwC Helsinki to conduct a materiality As a result of the workshop, we decided made, used, and disposed of with minimal that helping our customers to reduce environmental impacts. We also aim to assessment of the aspects of our business relevant the environmental impact of their own provide our customers with sustainability to sustainability in 2011. They evaluated a stakeholder businesses with the help of our products information about our product ranges sustainability survey conducted in late 2010, a list is the highest priority for Ahlstrom. For which is more transparent, and more example, our products help to save targeted. of sustainability trends and issues raised by our energy and waste, reduce greenhouse competitors and peer group companies, and interviews gas emissions, clean the air or water, and Managing our resources as efficiently as with our executive management team, as well as our minimize the use of resources. We already possible and minimizing waste in all phases have many products that do this (pages of the process is of strategic importance Sustainability Annual Plan for 2011. Those issues 14 –19) and we are determined to develop to Ahlstrom and paramount for the deemed to be material were ranked by the executive more. We believe there are new markets sustainability of any operation. management team in a Sustainability workshop, which and emerging opportunities for these helped us set new and ambitious targets in these areas. products, all of which are indeed products Our decision to update our Code of with purpose. Conduct in 2011, based on our company values, and implement a new Supplier In general, our products are our best Code of Conduct in 2012 is proof of and most important sustainability asset. the importance we attach to business We want to be good stewards of them, ethics, both within Ahlstrom, and in our ensuring that they are safe, and can be relationships with business partners. 13 Our products with purpose Our products are an integral part of the modern world. You may not always notice them, but they play a key role in industry, in the home, and in transport. On the following pages you will find examples of our products from wallcovering to wind turbines and water filters. Glassfiber tissue has a whole Our glassfiber reinforcements range of uses, from laminate are used as surfacing materials flooring to building panels. for the blades of wind turbines. As this suggests, glassfiber Wind power is one of the most tissue has to be both strong significant and promising forms and reliable, but it also needs of renewable energy, and We use 100 percent recycled to be resistant to mold and by 2008 had already saved polyester fibers in all our moisture, to prevent weather close to 300 million tons of CO2 wallcoverings, which has damage and the spread emissions per year, and EUR 6.6 reduced their cradle to gate of bacteria. We currently billion of fuel costs, according environmental footprint use synthetic binders in to the European Wind Energy by 10 percent. We’re now our products, but our Life Association. With the expansion looking for natural fibers to Cycle Assessment work has of off-shore technology replace the synthetic ones encouraged us to look for turbines will become even – wallcoverings like this are renewable alternatives, bigger and more efficient, and hung by pasting the wall first, which will significantly reduce we’re meeting this demand so our challenge is to find a their environmental impact. by developing new glassfiber formulation that will maintain reinforcements that can our products’ ‘paste-the-wall’ cope with these demanding performance. conditions. 14 We’ve developed a new Another one of our specialty fabric specially designed products is called Cristal for teabag manufacturers. Evolution. It is made only Ahlstrom BioWebTM is made from cellulose fibers sourced entirely from renewable raw from responsibly managed materials, and its carbon forests. These fibers are fully footprint is at least 30 recyclable and biodegrade percent lower than other in just a few weeks. Ahlstrom similar products. It uses Cristal Evolution was the very almost no water during first product that could be manufacture, and can be used to replace the plastic in made into teabags at a envelope windows, which has lower temperature, which made it possible to recycle means our customers can over 3,000 tons of paper save energy. every year. Cristal Evolution is also ideal for bread bags – it’s light, thin, and allows the bread to breathe, and can also be printed on. We provide high performance Ahlstrom Genuine Vegetable Parchment molds for customers seeking an environmentallyfriendly solution to plastic or aluminium. Produced from renewable sources, parchment molds are 100 percent biodegradable and produce a significantly lower carbon footprint than alternatives like aluminium. 15 We have a range of poster papers for use on billboards and in open-air urban environments, which are all made of natural fibers from renewable and responsible sources. Outdoor posters are still one of the most effective forms of marketing in terms of return on investment, and we’re helping to make this form of advertising more sustainable. One of our most important products is what is known as a release liner. These are the ‘backing sheets’ used to supply the adhesive labels you see on thousands of consumer goods, from food and drink to car tyres. Liners like this are coated with silicone, which allows the sticky label to come away easily. We’ve recently developed a new Ahlstrom Acti-VTM release liner which is far more sustainable than Our indicator papers are its competitors – it’s made from 100 packed with surgical percent renewable raw materials, instruments, so that and the silicone can be applied at surgeons and nurses and a lower temperature, which saves see at once whether energy. This silicone also contains as they have been properly much as 60 percent less platinum sterilized, and be than traditional alternatives. confident in using them. 16 Ahlstrom specialty materials are also used for other medical and diagnostics applications. You can find them in home pregnancy Ahlstrom air filtration is trusted to create kits, or in some of the testing a ‘cleanroom’ environment for hospital materials used in hospitals. operating theatres. Our filters keep the air free from dust, bacteria, viruses and airborne They’re also used in the very microbes. We sell similar filters to other sensitive process of screening organizations that require ultra-clean air, newborn babies for lifesuch as electronics manufacturers. threatening hereditary and genetic conditions. A small amount of the baby’s blood is spotted onto Ahlstrom paper and tested, which allows for early diagnosis and more effective preventative treatment. We have a full range of specialized medical fabrics which are used to create protective barriers that help prevent the spread of infection. They’re used in surgical drapes, gowns and, sterilization barrier systems used in operating theatres. They are specifically designed to be disposable, because this requires fewer resources than laundering, sterilization, and re-packaging them for subsequent use. All of these products can be safely incinerated. 17 Filter products are an important product area for us, especially those used in cars, with as many as 50 percent of the world’s automobiles using Ahlstrom filters. We now offer to the filter manufacturers for the automotive industry ‘fast curing’ filter materials for use in vehicles. This process allows the materials to be turned into the required filter component at a lower temperature, which saves energy. These materials can also be used in flame retardant products which are more sustainable than other alternatives, because they do not involve the use of the potentially hazardous PBDEs (Polybrominated Di-phenyl Ethers). We’re already selling our new ‘fast-curing’ filter materials in Europe, Asia and South America. As air quality becomes an increasingly important health concern, we’re developing more and more indoor air filtration products, designed to remove the damaging particulates and volatile organic molecules which may come in from outside, as well as the gases that can be produced from cleaning and cooking inside the building. 18 Our gas turbine filtration media help ensure that this vital machinery works at maximum efficiency, however challenging the environment. Optimizing the filtration process can increase power plant output by up to 20 percent and cut gas consumption by 10 percent, which also reduces CO2 emissions. Our filter products are just as Ahlstrom Disruptor ® is one vital to consumers as they of our advanced water are to industry. Our milk filter filtration products. It produces media are used on farms clean and safe residential to ensure that bacteria are drinking water in gravitykept under control. This helps flow filter devices, without maximize dairy production the need for chemicals or and protect the purity of the electricity. Ahlstrom Disruptor ® milk. removes pesticides, trace pharmaceuticals, chlorine, bromine, and iodine. It can also be used at a municipal level to test water quality. 19 “Our ambition is to incorporate the principles of sustainability and green chemistry into our product design.” Dr. Paul Stenson, EVP, Product and Technology Development Sustainability in product design Ahlstrom’s product development is run by a central group based at Pont-Evêque, France, and there is also a network of experts working within our four business areas – Building and Energy, Filtration, Food and Medical, and Label and Processing. 20 Meeting customer demands for sustainable products Our 2012 target is to incorporate a the green chemistry website, http://www. enzymes – this natural process starts breaking We have also developed a special Sustainability checklist into the process warnerbabcock.com/green_chemistry/ the fibers down before they are refined, Ahlstrom BioWebTM fabric for teabag we follow for all our new product designs, which means we will need less energy later. manufacturers. Its carbon footprint is at and we also aim to extend our Life Cycle A good practical example of how we are Our Filtration business is also introducing new least 30 percent lower than similar products, Assessment expertise to cover more of our applying the green chemistry approach is ‘fast curing’ materials for our key automotive it needs minimal water during manufacture, strategic product ranges. A longer term the gradual removal of all hazardous raw filter customers. These materials can be and it can be made into teabags at a ambition, but one where we are already materials from our existing products and turned into specific filter components more lower temperature, allowing our customers making progress, is to adopt the principles manufacturing operations. Formaldehyde, quickly and at a lower temperature, which to save energy. of ‘green chemistry’ into our new product for example, is a component in the synthetic saves our customers energy. development processes. binders we use to improve the strength Meeting customer expectations of paper, nonwoven and glass-based New technologies Our customers expect us to deliver Green chemistry products. As a result, traces of formaldehyde We’re always exploring ways of using products that are sustainably sourced, Green chemistry is a whole new approach are found in the emissions from the drying new technology to make our products and manufactured in a safe and reliable to product design, which aims to reduce ovens in our Filtration, and Building and more effective and more sustainable. For manner, without causing pollution to the or eliminate hazardous chemicals from Energy production plants, which require example, we have now launched the environment. As much as 87 percent of product development and manufacture. careful monitoring and ventilation. We innovative Ahlstrom Acti-VTM technology our raw material fibers are already green, The key point is that this assessment occurs have now started work to completely for the backing sheets that supply product because they are sourced from renewable in the design phase, on the basis that it is eliminate formaldehyde from our production labels. The technical name for these sheets sources. The comparable figure for a better to prevent waste or harmful emissions processes. is release liners, and they are coated with petrochemicals based materials supplier than to deal with them later. There are silicone to ensure that the adhesive label would be around 20 percent. By applying twelve core principles of green chemistry, Saving energy comes away easily. Our new process allows the principles of green chemistry to our which range from pollution prevention, Energy reduction is another priority for these liners to be coated with silicone at product design and manufacture we hope to energy efficiency, to the use of safer us, and there are numerous examples of a lower temperature, and reduces the to further improve our performance, and solvents. You can read more about this on progress in this area. We are, for instance, platinum content, without compromising demonstrate our ambition to be a leader in looking at treating our raw pulp with the quality of the product. this field in our sector. 21 Material processing Raw material extraction Manufacturing End-of-life LIFE CYCLE Product use Conversion and packaging Assessing the From cradle to gate During 2011 we developed our own Life environmental impacts, from carbon emissions, to energy and water use. This to the point they leave the factory gate: we’ve focused on this part of the cycle Life Cycle impacts Cycle Assessment expertise so that we can assess the impact of our products from assessment helps us make better decisions internally, but it is also invaluable externally, because this is where we can have the most influence. since more and more of our customers are of our products cradle to gate – in other words, from raw materials to the moment the product leaves now asking us about the environmental Eco-design approach our factory. In some cases we can extend performance of our products. Looking forwards, we aim to fully integrate that analysis through to the product’s use our Life Cycle Assessment into the research and final disposal, though clearly this is a We’ve carried out four Life Cycle studies and design stage of the development harder task, as the data is more difficult to so far, using the international ISO 14040 process, since it is known that up to come by. and ISO 14044 standards to assess our 80 percent of a product’s impacts are wallcoverings, release liners, glassfiber and determined by the decisions made then. Our Life Cycle Assessment evaluations take vegetable parchment products. This work into account all the product’s potential has concentrated on the products’ impacts 22 Life Cycle impacts Contribution analysis of a wallcover product We studied the contribution of raw materials, energy, water What we have learned so far is that the 8% and waste treatment as well as transportation of raw materials raw materials and energy we use have 8% Water eutrophication potential to the main environmental the greatest bearing on our products’ 16% Air acidification potential impacts of Ahlstrom wallcovering environmental impacts. As a result, we are 1% Global warming potential products. 5% endeavoring to use a higher proportion of Energy is the main contributor to renewable polymers, like poly-lactic acid 18% 23% 50% 44% 61% 66% carbon footprint (global warming (PLA), and recycled synthetic polymers, potential), while raw materials account for the biggest impacts like polyethyleneterephtalate (rPET). We Raw materials on acid rain (air acidification are also working on our energy efficiency. Energy potential) or harmful nutrients Transportation of raw materials in water (water eutrophication Water and waste treatment potential). % Vegetable parchment molds Inbound freight 100 Wallpaper with eucalyptus from 80 South America Our vegetable parchment molds are made of 98 percent Another useful piece of information Wallpaper renewable raw materials. We have compared their life relates to our logistics footprint. Our 60 with eucalyptus cycle impacts to those of aluminium molds. In cradle to analysis has shown that the bulk shipping from Portugal 40 gate comparisons, Vegetable Parchment molds have of wood pulp from South America to half of the carbon footprint impacts. The performance of our European manufacturing plants is 20 aluminium is more affected by the end-of-life phase – if actually a relatively environmentallyit is recycled it comes closer to parchment. Composting efficient method of transportation. 0 CE re D N ne o C abl w nE Re Dne C ab w e parchment does not, however, significantly lower its E TO D G lT le pooba W te l w nt aia rm l in g at Ab se de oti er u pl ic Ac ion idet ific at impacts compared to landfilling and incineration. Eu O tro ion ph ic at Phz de on pl e la et yio er n ion ox oto id ch at e io m n ic al CED=Cumulative Energy Demand 23 People and culture Common culture and global processes are key objectives of One Ahlstrom. 24 25 Ahlstrom as an employer Inspiring people Diversity Dialogue 4,000 people took part to our employee One of the three elements of our vision is We have always believed that a more We manage employee relations at a local survey, which was a response rate of over 80 ‘inspiring people’. This ambition extends diverse business is a more creative business. level. Many of our employees are covered percent. We analyze the results of this survey from our own employees to our customers We have employees in 28 countries, with by local collective bargaining agreements. to calculate what is known as our ‘Human and business partners, and all our other 64 percent in Europe, 20 percent in North Potential Index’, HPI. The level of our HPI is stakeholders. We particularly want to inspire America and 8.5 percent in Asia. We held our annual Ahlstrom European a key performance indicator for us, and is our own people – empower them to succeed Dialogue meeting on May 11, 2011 one of the factors taken into account when and encourage them to fulfill their potential. In 2011 our Board had one female director in Vantaa, Finland. This involved 18 determining managers’ bonuses. There’s We want to be an employer of choice and out of a total of seven. Three of the representatives from 13 European plants. more on this survey on page 10. an organization that never stops learning. members were over 50 years old, and The meeting included a briefing from the other four were between 30 and 50. management on our financial results, and Performance management There were 5,185 people working at Ahlstrom Two of the ten members of the Executive an update on the progress being made on A good performance appraisal system at the end of 2011, compared to 5,639 at Management Team were female, and four our strategy, objectives and key projects. is as important to the individual as it is to the end of 2010. This reduction was largely executives were older than 50 years. Each representative brought a list of the company. It helps us ensure we have due to the sale of the Home and Personal questions to the meeting, which had been the skills we need to execute our strategy business to Suominen Corporation, and the Of the total workforce 23 percent were agreed by their colleagues beforehand. effectively, and identifies opportunities for profit improvement program. The employee women, compared to 19 percent in 2010. personal and professional development turnover rate was 4.2, and 98 percent There is a balance of ages across the Meetings like this are one way for our people for our staff. Since 2011, all our white-collar were in permanent positions, compared to whole Group. to give feedback, but we also run surveys employees in Ahlstrom have been using the 96 percent the year before. across the whole company. In 2011 over same performance management process. Headcount* by age Headcount* by educational level Headcount * by country 3% 9% 13% 10% 2011 2011 20% 2011 3% 13% 7% 8% 11% 24% 2010 13% 2010 23% 2010 23% 13% 7% 3% 8% 12% 24% 13% 2009 2009 7% 2009 23% 11% 7% 9% 50% 45% 42% 7% 27% 27% 27% 5% USA 31% 8% 21% 34% 9% 9% France 13% 35% 22% Italy < 29 10% 24% Finland 34% < 39 36% Basic 12% Asia < 49 Professional 11% Brazil 33% < 59 B.Sc. Germany 11% > 60 M.Sc. Ph.D. Others *Employed 31.12.2011 *Employed 31.12.2011 *Employed 31.12.2011 26 Reflections from a new and old “Jumpee ” Learning The second element of our training Arvind Purushothaman has worked for the ‘Learning and renewing’ is one of our core program is leadership and management Building and Energy business area since values, and in the last year we’ve made a development. During 2011 the first two January 2009. He helps develop nextnumber of improvements to each of the groups of senior managers graduated from generation products like battery separators, three main components of our portfolio our The Way Forward program, which aims wallcoverings, and protective packaging of training courses. The first of these is the to build knowledge in key strategic areas for the automotive, apparel, and home Ahlstrom Academy, which is open to all such as leading people and change, sales furnishing sectors, with a special emphasis employees, and where we have continued and marketing, supply chain, strategy, and on finding more sustainable products and to focus on skills of strategic importance business practices in Asia. supporting our automotive customers. He for us. We are also streamlining the training found it stimulating to work with such a offered across the Group, to reinforce our We also extended the third element of our diverse group of like-minded people on aim of being One Ahlstrom wherever we are training: our leadership development and the program: “The JUMP training was an in the world. For example we gave the same mentoring program for future leaders, which eye-opener for me. Topics like coaching Project Management training in 5 different is called JUMP, and which celebrated its techniques, cross-cultural intelligence countries to a total of 130 employees. 25th anniversary in 2011. This is one of our and leadership were really interesting and Almost 1,000 employees took part in an most important programs, and has helped thought-provoking.” Ahlstrom Academy course during the year, us identify and develop some of our most which is close to 50 percent of the whitesuccessful leaders. Here are some views from collar workforce. those who attended the program – one from 2011, and one from 1995. Daniele Borlatto has worked for Ahlstrom since 1990, in a range of different roles including accounting, sales, and VP positions in Filtration, and is now EVP for the Label and Processing business area. He attended JUMP in 1995, at an early stage of his career, and still considers it one of the Key human resources figures best training programs he’s ever done, “It’s a unique opportunity to discover yourself in 2011 2010 2009 respect of your personal goals and working Number of employees at year-end 5,185 5,639 5,841 ambitions.” Employee turnover rate 4.20% 4.00% na Share of women among all employees 23% 19% 18% Women in Executive Management Team 2 out of 10 2 out of 10 2 out of 12 Women in Board of Directors 1 out of 7 1 out of 6 0 out of 7 27 One Ahlstrom One of Ahlstrom’s special qualities as a company is the mix of people who work here. We rejoice in the diversity of nationalities and backgrounds that come together in Ahlstrom, and we are united in our belief in the same values, and our commitment to the same goals. We’re proud of the positive working environment we create at Ahlstrom – we believe in working hard and achieving goals, but it’s equally important to have a good balance between work and free time. These stories from around the world show how our people are working together to improve safety at work, team spirit, care for their communities, and make progress on sustainability. 28 Collaboration in Italy Teambuilding in China Supporting the local community Committed to sustainable Teams at our plant at Turin have made Whenever we open a new facility we in Brazil operations in India some real progress on safety in the last year, always start by focusing on the sort of Our two plants at Jacareí and Louveira, We opened our manufacturing facility in as part of their ambition to achieve a zero company we are, and the values we in Brazil, are both working actively with Mundra, India in May 2010. India is one of accident rate. Some of the improvements believe in. When we began operations at charities for local children. Jacareí works the world’s fastest growing economies, and relate to better processes, such as our Chinese plant in Binzhou, for example, with AME (Associação Morada da the competition for talented employees is speeding-up the reporting of near-misses, we organized two workshops about our Esperança), which helps children living becoming extremely fierce. We’re proud but the greatest improvement has come values, and a team-building event around in poverty, and Louveira supports CIELO, to say that Ahlstrom has proved to be an from empowering individuals to take more our vision: ‘inspiring people’ and ‘passionate an organisation for people with learning employer of choice locally, with almost responsibility themselves. As Diego Bianca, about new ideas’. The workshops helped disabilities. 75 percent of our employees university the Health and Safety Manager at the the teams to discover that nothing is graduates, the highest in the whole company. plant says, “we have a new approach impossible, that new ideas are the root of Every Christmas a special tree is erected in The number of people studying for higher called PARS, which stands in Italian for success, and that working together with the plants’ reception areas, and decorated degrees in Mundra was also the company’s ‘think and act responsibly and safely’. It the same values allows the whole team to with baubles bearing a wish from a local highest at 10 in 2011. means everyone ensuring that they have achieve its goals. “This training inspires us child. Our employees volunteer to choose a the right training for the job, and the task is and gives us new ideas for innovation, as bauble and make the wish come true. We The plant produces single-use protective safe to do.” ‘Act responsibly’ is, of course, well as improving the efficiency in our work,” also hold a Christmas party for the children. fabrics for the healthcare industry, and it also one of Ahlstrom’s values, and this is a great said Wang Xinhai, Winder Operator at the As Cid Portugal, a shift supervisor at Jacareí uses state-of-the-art technology to minimize example of how much this can achieve in plant. and one of the organizers of the party says, its environmental impacts. Water, in particular, practice. The plant hasn’t achieved a zero “It is a magical moment”, and particularly is a crucial issue in India, where the climate is accident rate yet, but there have been real so for him, since he was once a recipient of so dry, and we have worked hard to ensure improvements thanks to the new spirit of one of these gifts as a child. our plant is extremely efficient in its use of collaboration across the whole plant. water for humidification, cooling and general In November 2011 the local authority housekeeping. The plant uses only 11,441 m3 of held a special event to mark Ahlstrom’s water annually, but unlike most similar facilities, contribution to the community, and does not release any effluent back into the encouraged other companies in the city to environment. We purify our waste water and do the same. “It is gratifying to know that our channel it to a drip irrigation system to water small gestures can help,” said José Laércio the hundreds of trees that our employees have Pereira, our HR Manager for Brazil. planted around the plant. The first of these were planted in February 2010 and now there are over 400 coconut trees, 100 sapota trees, as well as many local species. 29 Health and safety Health and safety is included in our overall Risk Management Policy, and our Group Standards and Guidelines, which reflect manufacturing plants over the last ten years. The Accident Frequency Rate, or AFR, is defined as number of lost time accidents best practice as defined in the OHSAS per million man hours. This was 39.08 in 2001, (Occupation Health and Safety Assessment which equated to 373 lost time accidents, Series) 18000. All our plants and employees but by 2011 it had dropped to 5.11 – a are covered by this, as well as anyone else reduction of nearly 90 percent in ten years. who is directly affected by what we do, such Our target for 2012 is 1.98. Safety results are as contractors and visitors to our plants. Plant also linked to management compensation. inspections are carried out on a three-year cycle, and any resulting recommendations In the long term our ambition is to have no monitored via a web-based tracking system. workplace accidents at all, and we fully We are also implementing OHSAS 18001 believe this is achievable. In fact 16 of our 38 across all our plants, with 15 accredited so plants did so in 2011. Our challenge now is to far. See table on page 42. achieve this across the whole group, which will help us fulfill our ambition to be the We’ve made significant progress on leader in our industry in terms of employee reducing workplace injuries at our safety. LTA AFR ASR kpl kpl kpl kpl 450 20 0.25 400 350 0.2 15 300 250 0.15 10 200 0.1 150 100 5 0.05 50 0 0 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 * 07 08 09 10 11 12* 07 08 09 10 11 12* *2012 target *2012 target *2012 target LTA = lost time accidents. AFR = accident frequency rate. ASR = accident severity rate. The Accidents that cause the absence of an employee The accident frequency rate is calculated accident severity rate is calculated from work for X number of days. by dividing the number of accidents by dividing the number of days of that result in absence, by the man hours absence, by the man hours worked, worked, and multiplying by 1,000,000. and multiplying by 1000. 30 Seven years without lost time accidents in Taylorville, USA In February 2012, our plant at Taylorville marked seven years without a single lost time accident. This has taken hard work by every employee, every day, and a complete dedication to continuous improvement. The whole plant is involved in safety training, safety audits, and the reporting and prevention of near–misses. There are events at the plant to mark each new safety milestone, with families brought together to celebrate what’s already been achieved, and to look forward to the next one. Progress on health and safety in Brignoud, France Ergonomic improvements The experience of our plant in Brignoud, South-East France, proves what a difference it can at Madisonville, USA make to have a full-time health and safety expert on plant. Sebastien Jaffrezic was first appointed in 2008, when the plant’s track record was good, but there was still plenty of room One of the key safety issues at our Madisonville plant for improvement. Having a dedicated professional overseeing procedures and assessing is the scrap paper baler. Nearly all of the plant’s paper potential hazards resulted in noticeable progress in a short space of time. The key here was waste is processed on plant using this baler, and then a shift in mindset from seeing safety as a chore or even a disciplinary matter, to one where its sent to be recycled into insulation material. There were importance is integral to the plant’s operating culture, and everyone on-site understands the no accidents during 2010 or 2011, but over 650 nearcontribution it makes to effective working, and high-quality production. misses, which led to a number of changes to working processes to improve safety. In the three years since 2008, the lost-time accident rate at the plant has fallen to zero, but no-one sees this as cause for complacency. As Jean-Guy Durand, Plant Manager says, “We The team began by carrying out a standard hazard have done well, but our intention is to be world class, and there is some way to go to reach assessment, and gathering input from each of the that, but we are confident our team can get there.” operators working on the baler. The most important recommendations that emerged related to changes in the way materials were handled and lifted, which reduced the likelihood of strains and injuries. ‘Ergonomic’ changes like this can make a significant difference to employees’ well-being at work. 31 Community impacts Wherever we do business, Our operations often play a major role in make efficiency savings across a number making a total of 362. A further 446 people their local communities, especially when of other plants as part of a company-wide transferred to Suominen Corporation as part we have an impact on the they are located in fairly rural areas, where profit improvement program. The latter was of our divestment of the Home and Personal world around us, whether they are major employers and tax-payers, necessary because we want our business to business. on the local community, the and important business partners for local be sustainable not only environmentally, but firms. also economically. To do that, we have to According to our strategy for the future to local economy, or the natural ensure that we are profitable, both now and grow in Asia, we acquired a filtration plant environment. We want to Every plant is encouraged to invest in their in the future, and in some circumstances this in Binzhou, in China’s Shandong province, make our presence as positive communities and support local causes. At a can mean we have to close some plants, as in 2010. We began producing glass fiber group level, the Annual Meeting authorizes was the case this year. We understand that reinforcements at the plant in late 2011, as possible, by making a significant charitable contributions, such as it has very real consequences both for the with a special focus on components for the constructive economic and the EUR 250,000 paid to the Aalto University employees concerned, and the surrounding wind turbines needed for renewable energy social contribution and by in Finland in 2010 and 2011, and the EUR community. We offer a range of support generation, which is a major growth area in minimizing any negative 120,000 donated to the Eva Ahlström for people facing redundancy, such as Asia. We also plan to make wallcoverings at Foundation in 2011. We do not make redeployment, outplacement, re-training, the Binzhou plant, and announced a joint impacts. political donations. coaching or financial support to start their venture for the production of masking tape own businesses. substrates and medical papers in Longkou, Focusing our strategy Shandong province, China. By the end of Among the strategic decisions about During 2011 we were forced to make 170 2011 we had 207 employees in China and the future direction of our business made employees redundant in Finland, 74 in the our production in Asia Pacific had increased last year, one was to stop the glass fiber USA, 39 in Germany, 22 in Italy, and 35 in by 17 percent compared to 2010. manufacturing in our plant in Karhula, and Brazil, as well as 22 in various other locations, Ahlstrom’s economic impacts in 2011 AHLSTROM’S CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS 1000 EUR 2011 2010 2009 Direct economic value generated * EUR a) Revenues 1,852,582 1,894,200 1,596,100 400,000 Local Economic value distributed * Group b) Operating costs 1,496,692 1,416,251 1,207,202 300,000 c) Employee wages and benefits 353,806 350,000 337,800 d) Payments to providers of capital 22,914 28,200 27,000 e) Payments to government 5,210 7,600 -7,100 200,000 f) Community investments 74 74 66 Economic value retained (calculated as Economic value -26,133 92,075 31,132 generated less Economic value distributed) 100,000 * with divested operations 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 32 Code of Conduct and human rights Code of Conduct Human rights Our values as a company are ‘Act We are committed to the United Nations responsibly, Create value, and Learn and Declaration of Human Rights, and renew’. As part of this, we have recently we observe the International Labor updated our Code of Conduct, which Organization’s Core Conventions on labor covers all aspects of the way we deal rights. These are particularly important in with employees, business partners and markets where the local legal framework communities. The revised Code now includes is under-developed. We also support the a grievance mechanism which allows United Nations Global Compact and Photo courtesy of UNICEF Finland employees to report any concerns they may its 10 principles on human rights, labor, The Eva Ahlström Foundation have to codeviolation@ahlstrom.com. Only environment and anti-corruption. the VP, Legal Affairs, General Counsel has The Eva Ahlström Foundation is a humanitarian organization that supports access to this e-mail address. The Code was Issues relating to human rights are included underprivileged women, children and young people in Finland and throughout the approved late in the year and no concerns in our Code of Conduct, and in an internal world, especially those dealing with poverty, oppression, war, political instability were reported in 2011. audit standard applied to all our plants. or natural disasters. The Eva Ahlström Foundation was founded in 2010 in honor These audits also include health and safety, of Eva Ahlström, the wife of Ahlstrom’s founder, who was a generous supporter of You can read the full text of the Code in the and the environment, and are carried out healthcare, culture, and education, especially for girls. appendix 1 on page 44–45. once every three years. Ten assessments were made in 2011, which means 31 The Foundation is currently supporting a three-year program in the Madhya We will be training all our employees on their percent of the 32 operating plants at year’s Pradesh area of India, where it is working with UNICEF Finland to provide clean responsibilities under the Code in the course end had been audited for human rights. water, sanitation and better hygiene in schools. Educating the children on water of 2012. We will also be introducing a Supplier hygiene will improve their own health, and help spread the message to the rest of Code of Conduct this year. We have comprehensive compliance their families. Overall the project will reach 150 schools, 37,500 children and 15,000 policies, for which we provide online families. and face-to face training, with a special emphasis on competition, antitrust and antiAhlstrom’s donation to the project is a way of demonstrating our commitment to corruption issues. A total of 456 people were children’s rights and sustainable development in India, which is becoming an trained last year, and we are focusing in important market for us. We opened our medical nonwoven plant in Mundra in the particular on training staff in Asia, since that’s neighboring Gujarat state in 2010, and have a sales office in New Delhi. a region of strategic importance for us. 33 Supply chain All our products are made from fibers, and 87 percent of those we used in 2011 were from renewable sources. 34 35 Responsible sourcing Our renewable fiber sources include wood Responsible forest management pulp, other natural fibers, recycled fibers and All of our wood fibers are purchased from synthetic polymers made from renewable suppliers who can provide us with the quality sources such as viscose and poly-lactic acid of pulp we need, under long-term contracts. (PLA). The proportion of renewable fibers we We require our pulp suppliers to be Chainused went up by 5 percent this year. of-Custody certified, either through the Forest Stewardship Council (FSCTM) or the In 2011, we purchased 1,228 thousand tons Programme for the Endorsement of Forest of raw materials, worth EUR 923 million. Certification (PEFCTM) schemes. Some Natural fibers made up 64 percent of all suppliers have both. our raw materials, and the percentage of chemicals dropped to 25 percent, We believe that using certified suppliers is compared with 28 percent in 2010. Thirtyone of the most effective ways we can help two percent of our raw materials were tackle climate change, since that ensures sourced from South America mainly in the the responsible management of the world’s form of wood pulp. Seventeen percent forest resources. As yet less than 10 percent came from North America, 46 percent from of forests are certified in this way, most of Europe, and 6 percent from Asia. We have them in Europe and North America, which manufacturing plants across the world, and means that supplies of certified pulp remain source our raw materials locally when we scarce. can. Both the FSC and PEFC standards were updated last year to include social criteria Ahlstrom raw materials in 2011 such as health and safety and human rights, and both our suppliers and our own certified Packaging 2% plants were audited against these new Synthetic fibers 9% standards. Total 1,228 ktons Chemicals 25% Natural fibers 64% 36 Fourteen of our plants are now Chain-ofcredentials, with no reduction in the quality Custody certified, with two more added of the product. during 2011: Windsor Locks, in Connecticut, and West Carrollton, in Ohio, were the first Most of our products cannot use recycled of our North American plants to achieve fibers; strength and consistency are often this. See table on page 42. We hope the a problem, and there are also stringent plant at Chirnside, Scotland, will go through hygiene requirements for food packaging the process in 2012, which will mean that and medical materials. the only plants using wood pulp that are not certified will be those in the Filtration CO2 emissions from transportation Sources of energy business, as there is currently no demand We’ve been examining ways to reduce Last year we used 4,567,925 MWh of energy. from our customers for certified filter the CO2 emissions we generate from We prefer to use natural gas, which is the materials. In other areas of our business transporting raw materials and finished cleanest burning fuel, but given the nature the sales of certified products continued products. For example, we’ve piloted the of our manufacturing processes it is a to increase considerably – demand rose use of rail, rather than truck transport for challenge to change the energy mix used almost 50 percent last year compared to pulp arriving at our La Gere plant in France, by our plants. That said, we are continuing to 2010. and this has proved to save both CO2 and look at the possibility of using renewables. money. Our other European plants are now Recycled fibers following the same model, and we are also We use recycled fiber wherever practical. examining other ways to manage our freight This tends to be in products closest to more effectively. printing and writing papers, and similar applications, such as in wallpaper base, As we’ve stated elsewhere in this report, poster paper, and paper for repositionable we have also established that, contrary to Sources of energy notes. We also use recycled polyester fibers popular opinion, the bulk transport of pulp in our nonwoven wallcoverings, which helps to Europe by sea from South America is not Purchased steam 15% to minimize their environmental impacts. significantly different, in environmental terms, They also contribute to a building’s green to sourcing pulp from Europe. Natural gas 51% Grid electrical power 20% Secondary fuels and recovered methanol 8% Coal 7% 37 Environmental management in manufacturing Management approach We are also ensuring that our filtration facility was acquired in Binzhou, We’ve always believed that the best way There are two key principles at the heart manufacturing plants have ISO 14001 China. We also sold our Home and Personal to manage waste is to produce less of it. of our environmental strategy: to minimize environmental certification. This gives us business to Suominen Corporation, and As part of this we initiated a worldwide emissions to the air, water and soil, and to a robust and consistent framework for six manufacturing plants were included waste reduction program in 2009, with the optimize the efficiency of our operations, managing environmental performance in that sale, with another significantly aim of reducing waste at source at all of thus saving raw materials and resources. at each plant. In each case we aim affected. Taken together, these changes our production plants. The initial goal was These two principles translate into five for continuous improvement based on have fundamentally recast Ahlstrom’s to cut waste by 2 percent in 18 months, group-wide KPIs: identifying the environmental impacts environmental profile. For example, our which was later revised to a 3.5 percent of both the operation and the products; gross production dropped by 5 percent reduction target over 2 years. The goal setting goals and objectives relative to compared to 2010, to 1,110,673 tons. We was exceeded by the end of 2011, with these impacts; monitoring performance have announced the closure of the Karhula waste generation cut by 3.9 percent. This Our water intake (m3/ton) against these goals and targets; and glass fiber production facility in Finland and equates to over 40,000 tons of raw material, Our electrical energy efficiency (MWh/ton) taking action to ensure ongoing progress the glass weaving facility in Bishopville, as well as the energy that would have Our fuel energy efficiency (GJ/ton) in environmental performance. USA, and we anticipate that this will have been required to process it. At the end of The waste we send to landfill (kg/ton) a further impact on our environmental 2011, our material loss rate, which is the Our CO2 emissions (kg/ton) Environmental impacts footprint. difference between gross and net tons In 2011, we made significant changes to produced, hit an all-time low, thanks to the our operating model, which in turn had an Eliminating waste at source work done by teams across the company. effect in our environmental profile. Three Resource efficiency is absolutely key plants were no longer under Ahlstrom to a sustainable operation. This means We’re continuing to look for further ownership (Groesbeck, USA, Altenkirchen, minimizing waste and utilizing all raw opportunities to reduce waste and make Germany, and Wuxi, China), and a new materials as efficiently as possible. our manufacturing processes more efficient. 38 Energy and CO2 our production operations led to a rise of Emissions into the air We have a long-term strategy to reduce 0.5 percent in the power required per ton Our emissions of major air pollutants such as CO2, our CO2 emissions, and achieved an 8 of product. Our continuous improvement SO2 and particles were down in 2011, principally percent reduction in 2011, compared to teams are actively working on energy saving in proportion to the reduction in our production 2010. The normalized rate of CO2 emissions projects throughout the business, and we levels and the amount of fuel we used. Emissions (i.e. CO2 per ton of product produced) was invested EUR 2.14 million in energy efficient of nitrogen oxides (NOx) rose by 0.4 percent due cut by 3.3 percent. This improvement was projects during 2011. In the last five years we to increased production at the Karhula fiberglass driven principally by the use of natural gas have spent EUR 12 million in such projects manufacturing facility in Finland. In terms of wherever possible, the burning of waste achieving a level where we remove ca. kilograms per ton of product produced, SO2 as fuel, and the out-sourcing of our boiler 100,000 tons of CO2 out of the atmosphere emissions fell by 5 percent and particle emissions operations. every year. This level of support will continue by 25 percent, as we switched to natural gas from in 2012. coal and oil. Our overall energy use also dropped by 4.5 percent, as a result of better energy We published our greenhouse gas emissions efficiency coupled with lower production in the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project, this levels. However, changes in the profile of was the fourth time we participated. Energy efficiency CO2 emissions Emissions into the air ton CO2/year kg CO2 /ton MWh/ton GJ/ton of product mg/MJ mg/m3 1,100 10.60 750,000 700 100 30 Electrical energy ton CO2/year mg NOX/MJ 10.40 MWh/ton of product 700,000 650 fuel input 1,050 kg CO2/ton 80 25 10.20 Fuel energy efficiency 650,000 mg SO2/MJ 1,000 600 of product 20 10.00 GJ/ton of product 60 fuel input 600,000 550 950 9.80 15 Particles mg/m3 550,000 500 40 900 9.60 10 9.40 500,000 450 850 20 5 9.20 450,000 400 800 9.00 400,000 350 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 39 Water intake and discharges from 2010, but two other key measures, Our overall water intake was down by 3 total Suspended Solids (TSS), and Biological percent to 47,590,706 cubic meters. Water Oxygen Demand (BOD), both improved intake per ton of product produced rose in 2011. They were down 6 percent and slightly by 2.2 percent, which again reflects 10 percent respectively, driven principally our new manufacturing profile. Our emissions by improved removals at Osnabrück, of direct effluent wastewater dropped by Germany, Windsor Locks, USA, and the nearly 2.3 million cubic meters, partly thanks two Italian plants at Cressa and Turin. Total to the fact that our plant in Hyun Poong, phosphorus rose slightly by 5.6 percent. South Korea, now pre-treats its wastewater Total nitrogen also increased. The increase and discharges it to a new municipal facility. in nitrogen levels was driven by a new Overall, some 84 percent of the water used approach to managing wastewater at our is returned to its source. plant at Stenay, France. This new approach had the effect of reducing COD discharges The key measure for pollutants in effluent by 13 percent and BOD discharges by 29 water – Chemical Oxygen Demand per percent while still respecting local limits on ton of product, or COD – was unchanged nitrogen. Total water intake and discharge COD and BOD in the effluents Total suspended solids in the effluents Million kg COD/ kg BOD/ kg TSS/ kg TSS/ m3/year ton of product ton of product year ton of product 60 2.5 0.6 450 0.45 Total water intake COD kg/ton TSS kg/year 50 0.40 m3/year 2.0 0.5 BOD kg/ton TSS kg/ton 400 0.35 Cooling water 40 0.4 0.30 m3/year 1.5 350 0.25 30 Total water discharge 0.3 m3/year 1.0 0.20 300 20 0.2 0.15 0.5 250 0.10 10 0.1 0.05 0 0 0.0 200 0.00 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 40 Waste to landfill Performance against targets In the last ten years we’ve reduced the In 2011, we achieved our environmental amount of waste we send to landfill by 75 targets in three areas: CO2 emissions, wastepercent, and our long-term ambition is to to-landfill, and ISO 14001 certification, where send no waste to landfill at all. This ambition 98 percent of the company’s production is driven by our firm belief that landfilling capacity is now certified. We did not represents a long-term liability and the least meet our targets in water intake, energy desirable of available disposal methods. We efficiency, and fuel energy efficiency. plan to achieve our ‘zero landfilling’ goal by This is because the sale of some of our 2015. We made very good progress on this operating plants significantly affected our in 2011, reaching an all-time low level of 14.6 environmental profile in these areas. A kg per ton of product. This figure represents team has been established within our new a 6.6 percent reduction from 2010 levels, Supply Chain organization to focus on these which had been the lowest to date. Nine opportunities for improvement. of our plants are already sending no waste to a landfill. In 2011, this number increased Looking to the future again when the plant in Brignoud, France, We have established five year targets for succeeded in eliminating all wastes from our environmental performance. These are landfill. shown on page 2. These are very ambitious goals, but we’re confident that we can build on our past successes and achieve what we set ourselves to do. Nitrogen and phosphorus in the effluents Landfilled solid waste kg/ton kg/ton of product tons/year of product 0.100 25,000 25 Total Nitrogen tons/year 0.080 Total Phosphorus kg/ton of product 20,000 20 0.060 15,000 15 0.040 10,000 10 0.020 5,000 5 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 41 Certification status Reducing the waste to landfill PLANT COUNTRY FSC PEFC QUALITY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETY OTHER Generating energy in France Barcelona SPAIN ISO 9001, TS 16949 ISO 14001 IPPC Bethune USA ISO 9001 Binzhou CHINA in 2013 Bishopville USA ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Bousbecque FRANCE X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Brignoud FRANCE X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 IPPC Chirnside UK ISO 9001 ISO 14001 IPPC Hyun Poong KOREA ISO 9001, TS16949 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Jacarei BRAZIL X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Karhula FINLAND ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Kauttua FINLAND ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 La Gère FRANCE X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Longkou CHINA Ahlstrom ownership 60%, Ahlstrom employees on site Louveira BRAZIL ISO 9001, TS 16949 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Madisonville USA ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Malmédy BELGIUM X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 IPPC Mikkeli FINLAND ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Mount Holly USA ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Springs Mundra INDIA ISO 9001 in 2013 Osnabrück GERMANY X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 EEG Pont Audemer FRANCE X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Radcliffe UK ISO 9001 ISO 14001 IPPC Rottersac FRANCE X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Saint Séverin FRANCE X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Sassoferato ITALY ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Stenay FRANCE X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Ställdalen SWEDEN X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 EN 16001 Tampere FINLAND ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Taylorville USA ISO 9001 ISO 14001 IPPC Turin ITALY X X ISO 9001, TS 16949 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 EMAS Tver RUSSIA in 2012 EEG = Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetz West Carrollton USA X X in 2012 EMAS = Eco-Management and Audit Schema EN = Guidance and requirements for energy management systems Windsor Locks USA X X ISO 9001 ISO 14001 IPPC = International Plant Protection Convention ISO = International Standardization Organizations ISO/TS = ISO Technical Specification (for automotive quality systems) Ahlstrom Group FINLAND X X N/A N/A N/A OHSAS = Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services VPP = Voluntary Protection Program 42 Collaboration and innovation This story is another good example of the value of partnerships, and how collaborations with our customers and suppliers can lead to profitable and sustainable innovations. In 2009 a former Ahlstrom employee set up Nesocell a new business based in Italy, to develop a new and sustainable insulation material from the sludge waste generated during paper production. This new material can help reduce energy use in a building by up to 70 percent, and is easier to In the last ten years we’ve reduced the amount of waste we send install and transport than insulation panels. This means it has a lower environmental impact than to landfill by 75 percent, and our ambition is to send no waste to traditional approaches to insulation. It’s also flame-retardant, recyclable, and very breathable. landfill at all. We’re putting this into practice by systematically reducing waste throughout our manufacturing operations. When The patented process involved in creating this new material requires very high quality cellulose all these alternatives have been implemented, the next best fibers, which are being sourced from the nearby Ahlstrom plant in Turin. Everyone wins with this new option is recycling, followed by composting and using the waste idea: Nesocell are able to offer customers a more efficient and sustainable product, and our Turin to generate energy. plant can turn useless waste into something with a real value and environmental purpose. This approach has a number of advantages. It avoids all the negative consequences of landfill, and can also reduce the need to burn fossil fuels to generate energy, which saves carbon. Our plant at Brignoud, France is a good example. In the past it shipped between 480 and 960 tons of waste a year to landfill plants, but last May the plant identified a local energy plant Recycling in Brazil Recycling certain types of filter paper used to present a real challenge for our that could take the sort of waste the plant produces. As a result plant in Louveira, Brazil. Transportation filters need to be so robust that turning around 700 tons of waste a year is now being used to generate the waste produced during manufacture back into usable pulp was extremely energy for local businesses and households – a total of over 3,000 difficult, which meant that 80 percent of the waste Louveira sent to landfill was MWh of electricity. this type of paper. The plant decided they needed to do something about this, and set themselves the goal of eliminating all landfill waste within two years. The first step towards this was to work with a paper recycling company on more effective process for re-pulping the filter paper. As a result this waste can now be used in the production of cardboard for packaging materials, which saves money and reduces the plant’s environmental impact. The technical requirements of the new process also required the phenol and formaldehyde residues in the original material to be reduced, and the plant managed to achieve this too. Now Louveira can send all this waste for recycling, and the same process is also being used by the customers who use this material to manufacture transportation filters, which helps them improve their own environmental performance. “It was a way to differentiate ourselves in comparison to the competition,” says Osvaldo Wagno Carvalho, the manager who coordinated the project. 43 Appendix 1 Renewed Code of Conduct 1. Introduction 2.1. We comply with national and We support the United Nations’ Universal 2.4. We respect the environment international laws and regulations Declaration of Human Rights, the The Ahlstrom Code of Conduct describes International Labor Organization’s We minimize the environmental impact of the ethical principles that underpin how We abide by all the appropriate Declaration on Fundamental Principles and our operations, source responsibly and use we conduct business in our company. It is international and national laws and Rights at Work, the OECD Guidelines for all our resources as efficiently as possible. based on our core values ‘Act responsibly, regulations. Multinational Enterprises, and the UN Global Create value, and Learn and renew’ and Compact covering human rights, labor, We comply with environmental legislation, takes into account our principles of how to We adhere to our own internal Ahlstrom the environment, and anti-corruption. This and strive to exceed those demands. manage business in a sustainable manner policies and procedures, and ask for commits us to eradicate child labor and as well as the legislation in the countries guidance whenever we are unsure. forced labor anywhere in our organization We co-operate fully with any environmental where we operate. The Code applies to and supply chain, and recognize our inspections or monitoring, and report our everyone in the company. We refrain from any dealings with employees’ right to freedom of association environmental performance openly and competitors or other firms that could be and collective bargaining. honestly. harmful to our customers’ interests. 2. The Code of Conduct We limit our emissions to the soil, water and We condemn all corrupt business practices, 2.3. We adhere to high ethical standards in air to permissible levels, and reduce the These are the principles that our Code is and refuse to take part in any act of everything we do environmental impact of our products over based on: bribery, whether of government officials or their entire lifecycle. anyone else. We conduct our business with the utmost • We comply with national and professionalism and integrity, and to the This is all part of our belief that we have international laws and regulations You can find more detail on this in our most demanding moral, ethical and legal a responsibility to manage the planet’s • We respect and promote human rights Compliance Program. standards. resources sustainably, on behalf of future • We adhere to high ethical standards generations. in everything we do We keep our promises, and take due care • We respect the environment 2. 2. We respect and promote human rights of our own employees and the people and • We are committed to maintaining firms we do business with. a safe, healthy and fair workplace We treat all our people with respect, for our employees and give them all equal opportunities We develop working partnerships that are • We are good citizens in all our for personal growth and professional fair, responsible and mutually beneficial. communities development, regardless of their gender, • We avoid conflicts of interest age, race, ethnicity, disabilities, nationality, We keep correct and complete internal • We protect Ahlstrom’s assets, both sexual orientation, religious beliefs, political records, and issue transparent and tangible and intangible, including affiliations, marital or economic status, or accurate external reports. intellectual property, confidential position within the company. information, and the company name This is a key part of our overall ambition to achieve excellence in everything we do, and consistently deliver the best possible service to our customers. 44 2.5. We are committed to maintaining a 2.6. We are good citizens in all our 2.8. We protect Ahlstrom’s assets, both 3. How to report a concern safe, healthy and fair workplace for our communities tangible and intangible, including employees intellectual property, confidential We want all our employees and other We care for our community, and act as information, and the company name stakeholders to feel they can freely We take responsibility for our own safety, responsible neighbors. report any concerns they might have and our colleagues’, by following the We only use Ahlstrom property for company about possible violations of this Code. This company’s safety standards, wherever we We respect the cultures, customs and business, and treat assets such as vehicles might include, for example, suspected are in the world. values of local people and societies, and equipment with care and respect, irregularities in accounting or financial wherever we are in the world. reporting any theft or misuse. reporting, potential conflicts of interest or We get the necessary safety training before illegal acts, as well as any environmental or we start a job, and intervene if others are in We make a positive contribution to social We maintain the physical security of human rights issues. danger or are violating safety rules. and economic development in our local our facilities and ensure all visitors are communities, and minimize any negative appropriately authorized. Employees can report concerns like this We adhere to all local Health & Safety impacts from our operations. to their own manager, or to any other regulations, and where appropriate, We safeguard the company’s confidential senior manager or the Human Resources exceed them. We listen to local people, and take their and proprietary information, and share or Legal department. If you wish to remain views into account, and encourage our it with people outside the organization anonymous your identity will not be We report near-misses, and share best own employees to play an active role in only when an approved confidentiality revealed unless it is absolutely necessary in practice proactively across the whole their own neighborhoods. agreement is in place. order to carry out a proper investigation. company. We take all sensible steps to protect Messages can be sent by employees and We encourage a healthy balance between 2.7. We avoid conflicts of interest our computer systems, and ensure our other external stakeholders by e-mail to work and personal life, and we do not passwords are secure and up-to-date. a dedicated and confidential mailbox, tolerate any form of abuse, intimidation, We take care that no personal codeviolation@ahlstrom.com. Only the VP, or harassment at work, whether that’s considerations or relationships influence the We are aware at all times that Ahlstrom’s Legal Affairs, General Counsel has access physical, sexual, or psychological. way we do business on behalf of Ahlstrom. tangible and intangible assets belong to to this email address. the company, not to individuals, regardless We ensure that our business travel and of their position. accommodation expenses are always paid by the company, and we do not There’s more detail about the protection of give or accept gifts, entertainment, or the company’s intellectual property in the hospitality beyond what would normally be Ahlstrom’s Intellectual Property Policy and considered reasonable. We report anything Guidelines, which includes guidance on that might be considered a conflict of respecting the intellectual property owned interest in our work to our line manager. by third parties. The Code of Conduct is part of the Ahlstrom We do not use our jobs to further our own Compliance Program and is overseen by private or financial interests. the VP Legal Affairs, General Counsel. 45 Appendix 2 Adherence to GRI3.1 Economic Performance Indicators Page EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 32 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 36–39 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. EUR 1.6 Million EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 7, 36 Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 36 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 37, 39 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 39 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 37–39 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 14–19, 21–22 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 37 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 40 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 36 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 39 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 36–39 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 39 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 40 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 41 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. zero EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 14–19, 21–22 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. zero EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 37 Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 26 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. 27 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. 30 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. 27, 32 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 2, 26 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 26 Human Rights HR3 Total hours of training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 33 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 33 HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. 33, 36 HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. zero 46 Society Page SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 32 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 33 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 11 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 32 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant or actual negative impacts on local communities. 32 Product Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 10 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 36, 42 Appendix 3 Adherence to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Page Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 33, 44–45 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 33, 36 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 26, 33, 36, 44–45 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 33, 36, 44–45 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and 33, 36, 44–45 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 33, 36, 44–45 Environment Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 38–43 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 38–43 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 38–43 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 33, 44–45 47 Our history of corporate responsibility Villa Mairea designed by Alvar Aalto and Antti Ahlström founds the company in 1851, and runs it with built in 1938–1939. his wife Eva for 25 years until his death in 1896. He plays a key role in the development of Finnish public education: elementary schools are established wherever the company has a plant. He sets up Finland’s first co-educational school in Pori, and supports higher education. He is also an early and passionate pioneer of women’s rights, and after his death his wife Eva runs the company until 1903. Ahlström is by now the biggest company in Finland, with sawmills, pulp and paper mills, engineering and glass plants forming the core of the business. CEO Harry Gullichsen commissions Alvar Aalto to design detailed new town plans for Varkaus, Karhula, The acquisition of Cartiere Kauttua and Sunila, incorporating better infrastructure, Bosso S.p.A. in Italy in transport, schools and houses. As a result of this 1963 makes Ahlström a work, and the house he designs for the Gullichsens pioneer in international in Noormarkku, Aalto becomes one of the most expansion among Finnish The first elementary celebrated architects of the period. companies. Antti Ahlström school in Noormarkku. 1851 1901 1911 1921 1931 1941 1951 1961 1971 Eva Ahlström funds the A new regional plan Further support for Ahlström is recognized building of a hospital in is developed for the employee housing as for its environmental Noormarkku in 1903. Varkaus area. part of the post-war protection program, Employee housing is reconstruction effort. including Finland’s provided at the Ahlström first flotation plant for plants in Kauttua, Varkaus, wastewater treatment. Noormarkku, and Karhula. Eva Ahlström Karhula employee housing designed by Alvar Aalto. Photo Martti Kapanen, Alvar Aalto museum. Eva Ahlström hospital in Noormarkku. Photos from 1910. During the Second World War two thirds of the workers were women. The amount was the highest in 1943. 48 Engineers in the Hyun Poong plant in South Korea. Path breaking environmentally beneﬁcial technologies were developed in the 1980s Pyroﬂow boilers enjoyed global success thanks to their particularly low SO2 and NOx emissions. MC (medium consistency) pumps were saving both energy and the environment due to less water and Expansion in Asia starts with the discharges in the process. establishment of a ﬁlter paper mill in South Korea in 1987 as a joint venture between Ahlstrom is entirely focused The Dispro web-forming method was both resource Ahlström and On Yang Pulp Co.Ltd. on specialty papers and efficient and improved the quality of the web at the nonwovens, with 40 plants same time. in 14 countries. Sustainability awareness grows worldwide. 1980 1991 1998 2001 2011 Ahlström completes The company starts using EUR 500,000 donated to Aalto University construction of a new innovative recycled ﬁber in Finland. The company’s support to Eva manufacturing plant for technologies in Germany. Ahlström foundation is channeled to a release liner production in Comprehensive water and school project in India as part of Mathi, Italy designed by environmental monitoring and its continuing commitment to educational architects Gabetti & Isola protection programs are put and humanitarian causes. and Franco Fusari. in place. Ahlström Osnabrück receives FSC™ Chain-ofThe design was widely Custody certiﬁcation in 1998. recognized as a great example of modern industrial architecture aimed for low visual impact and harmony Finnish Glass Museum Photo Collection with the local residential 1985 Ahlström received recognition for architecture. its unique contributions to preserving cultural heritage with 7 museums established for industrial history. Certiﬁed pulp arrives by boat in Osnabrück. Ahlstrom Corporation P.O. Box 329, FI-00101 Helsinki Salmisaarenaukio 1, FI-00180 Helsinki Finland Tel. +358 (0) 10 888 0 Fax. +358 (0) 10 888 4709 ﬁrstname.lastname@ahlstrom.com www.ahlstrom.com
