VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Page Contents Topic no. 2 VACSERA Message 3 VACSERA Profile 6 Application and Adherence To The Global Compact Principles 7 1. Human rights 9 A. Internally 11 1. Transportations 11 2. Entertainment 12 3. Social Service 13 4. Health Care 14 5. Training Center 15 6. Safety Measures for our workers 15 7. VASCERA Library 16 B. Externally 17 1. Blood Donation Campaigns 18 2. The Therapeutic Center 19 3. Vacsera Vaccination Center 20 4. Vacsera Medical Services Sector 21 A. Medical Centers 24 B. Labs 26 C. Out patients clinic 27 5. Pharmacy 28 6. Knowledge Management Department 29 2. Labour 31 3. Environment 34 Waste Management Program 35 4. Anti-Corruption 38 GRI Indicators Page 1 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 VACSERA MESSAGE * VACSERA is committed to the United Nation Global Compact. * We believe that collaborative work between counterparts in our industry can lead to remarkable changes and improvement in the work environment * We are aware of our social responsibility and we do apply policies to prevent child labour, discrimination, promote health and preserve the environment * We support the anti-corruption principle that was added to the framework of the compact Page 2 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 VACSERA PROFILE * The Holding Company for Biological Products and Vaccine VACSERA is the sole manufacturer of vaccines,Sera and biological products in Egypt. * VACSERA is a government owned company that works under the umbrella of the Ministry of Health. * VACSERA has three affiliated companies after merging two of its affiliated companies, which areThe Egyptian Company for The Egyptian Company The Egyptian Company Production of Vaccines, for Blood Transfusion for Drugs and Sera and Drugs Services Veterinary * The holding company is a land mark of the Ministry of Health, all affiliated companies are working as private legal entities, they have their own board of directors, that put their own policies and strategies. * VACSERA's current institutional structure presents many advantages for the organization, vacsera share a dual benefit from both governmental and privte which enable it enjoy the firm support of the Ministry of Health, as well as having all of the incentives of the private sector, and both push it to excel. *Beside being the only manufacturer of vaccines in Egypt, VACSERA runs a main blood bank that provides all blood banking services. * VACSERA is one of three suppliers for the insulin products nation–wide. * VACSERA has a large number of laboratories that operate equally to the international standards, among these laboratories are the two WHO Certified regional reference labs for Polio and Influenza. Page 3 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 * VACSERA is GMP certified, and has received the ―ISO 9001:2000‖ and ―ISO 14001:1996 certification, and is working towards accreditation by the American Association of Blood Banks for VACSERA blood bank transfusion services. * VACSERA has received ―ISO 17025:2005‖ certification for one of its laboratories and preparing for others labs to be certified. * VACSERA conducts cooperative projects in collaboration with a lot of organization and companies such as: *WHO, such as the regional influenza center. *Glaxo SmithKline. *Microbe Institute-Russia. *Bioton –Poland *Dongbae-China. *Aventis. *Pasteur Institute-France. *Amersham SNBTS,Tecnedil-Italy *BioCon -India (Insulin company) *Agent of Baxter U.S.A Page 4 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 * Furthermore, VACSERA plays an important role in research activities related to the rich historical and cultural heritage of Egypt, as now we participate in project with other Egyptian research institutes related to DNA sampling of mummies, this project has several objectives such as :1Tracing the genealogy of the ancient Egyptian mummies. 2Retrieving the origin of various diseases, and microbial organisms, hoping to help in discovering better cures. * VACSERA has eleven years experience in conducting clinical trials to assure safety of its products and comply with national and international standards. * VACSERA clinical trials department shares with WHO in late stages of polio eradication at Egypt through a serology survey on more than 1000 children over one year. * VACSERA clinical trials department shares with External universities and Research institute in conducting clinical trials and providing field study services to there clinical trial in egypt (monitiring investigators , site selection and documentation). * During the period extended from 2009 to 2011 we participated in a clinical trial study with Mary land university , Baltemore, USA on patients with acute viral hepatitis in EGYPT. Page 5 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 PART 1 Application and Adherence To The Global Compact Principles. Page 6 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Page 7 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 * In terms of the Global Compact principles of supporting and protecting human rights, VACSERA's Values and Ethics are at the heart of our relations with our clients, our personnel and the community — and are associated with the international declaration of Human Rights. * So we are very pleased to continue joining the Global Compact in order to share our experience with a lot of respectable establishments all over the world, under the supervision of the United Nations, and to expand our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact by learning from the experiences of others and then try to spread them in our community. * In our policy we address human rights, which are often interpreted in the health sphere to mean a right to better health by embedding it in our mission and goals . * We apply non-discrimination practices and we are committed to our employees. * We are committed to respect human rights in both our workplace and our surrounding community. * We have taken certain measures to adhere to the principles of human rights in both our workplace and our surrounding community. Page 8 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Page 9 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 1VACSERA protects the right of enjoying better health. 2VACSERA plays an essential role in the domain of public health in Egypt; it took an obligation to provide better vaccines and other pharmaceutical products at affordable prices to the Egyptian market. 3VACSERA is responsible for providing all the Ministry of Health requirements for the National Expanded Immunization Program 4VACSERA respects human rights in the health research. We have a research Committee in place to evaluate compliance of the research procedures to ethics. * We have independent institutional review board (IRB) to review and approve all clinical researches sponsored by VACSERA putting in mind the rights and welfare of human subjects. * VACSERA adopts certain policies and strategies that address basic human rights in order to protect our employees' rights, improve the working conditions, and raise human rights awareness. * VACSERA goes through human rights by application of the following points for the employees in order to maintain the human rights and increase the awareness of the employees with human rights. * VACSERA Application of human rights: 1. Transportations 2. Entertainment 3. Social Service 4. Health Care 5. Training Center 6. Safety Measures for our workers 7. VASCERA Library Page 10 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 1Transportation: * VACSERA has 42 buses dedicated to transport the employees and workers from their residence to work and vice versa. *This service is nearly free. 2Entertainment: * VACSERA gives their employees and workers the opportunity to have their summer vacations at considerable costs in company-owned apartments by the sea. *At weekends VACSERA organizes trips for its employees to places of their own choice. * VACSERA believes in giving its employees the right to practice sports and encourages them to create teams to play for its name at the companies' leagues in various sports such as handball and football. * VACSERA achievement in the sport field is targeted by rising to the first division of Companies National Football League. * VACSERA participating in Chess Championship. Page 11 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 * In order to provide the employees and their families with the chance to gather and practice sports VACSERA established VACSERA Club where the employees are allowed to spend time and practice their favorite sports. * In 2012 VACSERA Club as well offers summer classes for different sports and activities for VACSERA`s employees' kids. *VACSERA organizes some indoor contests such as chess contests for their staff. 3Social Services: *VACSERA gives a hand to employees through a committee for social assistance to overcome their financial or social problems. In 2011&2012 about 150 employees got this advantage. *VACSERA organizes Donation Day to encourage the employees to donate blood. *VACSERA offering care, education and entertainment for VACSERA`s mothers kids during their working hours in VACSERA Nursery . *VACSERA shares the working mothers their Mother`s Day and honors some of them. *VACSERA celebrates Orphan`s Day every year on the first Friday of April to put a smile on orphan children attended a fun-filled day of playing, music and presents to make it a day they can never forget. *VACSERA has a unique insurance system, which gives its employees or their inheritors the advantage to receive 119 month salary as their retirement reward or death compensation beside their due pension. Page 12 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 4Health Care: *VACSERA provides distinguished medical services for their employees. Medical Care Project As VACSERA cares for their employees and their families, this project is established to visit any clinic (in Vacsera Medical Center) besides getting 25% discount for any laboratory tests. Any medical services or vaccines produced by the company are sold for our employees at cost prices. Page 13 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 5Training Center: * VACSERA established the training center, which gives the employees the opportunity to take further studies in different fields, which are fully paid by VACSERA, and during the study period the employee is allowed to have a paid leave of absence to study and attend the exams. * And here is a list of different post graduate degree VACSERA's staff owned in the last period. 1. 46 employees obtained (MBA) degree. 2. 32 of our staff obtained philosophy of science (PhD) degree. 3. 87 of our staff obtained Master of Science (MSc) degree. 4. 7 Of our staff attended the Governmental Leadership Academy UK courses five of them obtained (GLA) distinguished certificate. 5. 8 employees obtained (ORACLE) diplomas. 6. 96 employees obtained (TQM) degree from AUC. 7. 3 employees obtained intellectual property degree. 8. 2 employees obtained Egyptian Board for Blood transfusion. 9. 3 employees are preparing doctoral degree in GEORGIA UNIVERSITY 10. 1 employee is preparing doctoral degree in GERMANY 11. 1 employee is preparing doctoral degree in BELGIUM 12. 1 employee obtained master degree in Biomedical and Forensic studies in Egyptology in the U.K. 13. 1 employee obtained master degree in Bioinformatics in the U.K. 14. 1 employee obtained doctoral degree in JAPAN Most of our staff had been a part of training courses in different specialties according their work needs in co operation with many institutes such as RUTGERS university (Center for Executive Leadership in Gov, USA) – American university of Cairo ( Quality institute ). * VACSERA managed to eliminate the illiteracy among its workers, by organizing illiteracy eradication classes in the company and giving the workers the educational tools free; and therefore VACSERA community has no illiteracy. Page 14 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 6Safety Measures for our workers: * Establishing a documentation system for safety issues according to the related international specification and guidelines such as WHO, OSHA and CDC. Examples: AProviding a specific safety information manual for each unit at VACSERA that includes all safety notes, guidelines, programs and standard operating procedures (SOP's) to ensure health and safety for all workers and work environment. BProviding the Material Safety Information references (MSI) specific for all chemicals used in all VACSERA laboratories, referring to the international Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each chemical. * Establishing VACSERA safety program to accomplish the following goals:AThe protection of our personnel from being exposed to workplace hazards. BProviding safe environment for production or high quality research by making available safe practices on facilities. CComply with WHO and CDC applicable standards that suit the local requirements and circumstances. DDesignating a safety coordinator team that covers all VACSERA units and departments, who are well trained on general and specific safety rules, and also ensuring that all workers comply with all safety rules. 7VACSERA Library (2012 update): A huge library which holds 1. 7500 books and journals 2. Internet access 3. Insignia (in process) which will connect the library with the largest libraries in the world to provide as much knowledge as possible for the researchers. This will give the employees the opportunity to increase their knowledge. Page 15 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Page 16 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 * VACSERA supports the human rights within our sphere of influence, we believe that we have a huge responsibility for our society especially in the medical field; we try to fulfill our concept in providing better health for people. * VACSERA dedicates all its potentials, expertise and facilities in the favor of the surrounding community in order to achieve our goal in providing better health for the human. * In order to achieve its goal, VACSERA made major efforts together with the government to contribute in the health field, among which:1Blood Donation Campaigns * On average, 7 campaigns per day and 5000 to 6,000 blood bags collected per month about 90% in them from Cairo & Giza. * Our mobile units for blood collection carries out 100 campaigns covering Cairo and Giza governorates with an average of 5000 blood bags. * All these blood products are given to hospitals and individuals against the cost price. * All blood bags are tested for HBs Ag, HCV Ab, HIV 1,2 Ab and TP Ab using the chemilumescence technique then all negative samples are retested for HBV, HCV and HIV using the NAT technique (Nucleic acid testing) which ensure the good quality of blood bags that patients may need. * VACSERA share in HIV controls through MOH central infection control department. * VACSERA offers a general checkup for the donors and made some tests for the donors like Hepatitis B (HBsAg), Hepatitis C (HCV Ab), Syphilis (TP Ab) and AIDS (HIV 1,2 Ab). Page 17 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 During year 2007, there were 21659 donors, and the results of the blood sample testing were 502 donors positive HBsAg, 673 donors positive HCV Ab, 25 donors positive TP Ab, and 11 donors positive HIV 1, 2 Ab. During year 2008, there were 23222 donors, and the results of the blood sample testing were 547 donors positive HBsAg, 721 donors positive HCV Ab, 69 donors positive TP Ab, and 11 donors positive HIV 1, 2 Ab. During year 2009, there are 55005 donors, and the results of the blood sample testing were 795 donors positive HBsAg, 1534 donors positive HCV Ab, and 231 donors positive HIV 1, 2 Ab. During year 2010, there are 56342 donors, and the results of the blood sample testing were 778 donors positive HBsAg, 1564 donors positive HCV Ab, and 208 donors positive HIV 1, 2 Ab. During year 2011, there are 61511 donors, and the results of the blood sample testing were 818 donors positive HBsAg, 1296 donors positive HCV Ab and 207 donors positive HIV 1, 2 Ab. * All positive HIV samples were sent to MOH labs for confirmation by Western Blot. 2The Therapeutic Center: *Blood transfusion services for the needy patients suffering from Hemophilia and Thalassemia, ranging from 2 months old infant to adults. * On average, one blood bag is provided for each patient per month, and the quantity varies according to weight and age of the patient. * Regular monitoring of the hemoglobin percentage in blood for Hemophilia and Thalassemia patients. * Providing the necessary chelating agents for patients according to their medical status need. * Fresh frozen plasma or CRYO ppt. to patient suffering from deficiency in factors 8 & 9, which results in chronic bleeding. Page 18 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 * General check-up for our patients. * Our blood transfusion services benefit: -in 2008 was 173 Thalassemia patients, 94 Hemophilia patients, and 69 miscellaneous diseases per month in 2009 was 4401 patients: 1853 Thalassemia patients, 1139 Hemophilia patients, and 1409 miscellaneous diseases per month. in 2010 was 2918 patients: 1415 Thalassemia patients, 608 Hemophilia patients, and 895 miscellaneous diseases per month. in 2011 was 8707 patients: 1183 Thalassemia patients, 6620 Hemophilia patients, and 904 miscellaneous diseases per month. * Our services are submitted to patients at affordable prices and we provide free treatment for needy patients. 3-VACSERA Vaccination Center * VACSERA has an outstanding vaccination center working 7days form 8.30am to 9pm, consisting of 3 main departments, which offer various services for affordable costs. AVaccination Department for children: * All types of essential compulsory vaccines for children and other recommended vaccines such as Hepatitis A and Varicella. Also, this department is accompanied by a pediatric examination unit for prevaccination assessment. BVaccination department for travelers * All types of vaccines necessary for pilgrims such as meningitis. * Travelers vaccines for those traveling to countries with endemic diseases. Page 19 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 CImmuno-Compromised Patients’ Department * All types of vaccines for patients suffering from different kinds of chronic diseases such as (cancer patients, liver and kidney failure…etc), who need special vaccination schedules. * The Center helps in raising the awareness of public health, highlighting the importance of vaccination through giving free lectures in schools, universities, medical personnel,….etc. * Occupational health awareness in areas where certain categories of people are more susceptible to specific diseases for example: workers in petrol fields (due to the work conditions in deserts, they are more in need for Anti-snake serum, Antiscorpion, Rabies…..etc). * The Center has a remarkable contribution in carrying out FREE vaccination campaigns for children in orphanages and for the handicapped. * Vacsera's Vaccination Center services provided to about 50000 customers in 2009, 60000 customers in 2010 & 75000 customers in 2011. 4VACSERA Medical Services Sector (VMSS) VACSERA medical center had been reconstructed to be V.M.S.S and transfer from Ramsis district to Agouza district which offers full healthcare services through its different clinics, centers and labs. Patients prefer Vacsera's center where they receive high standard medical services for low costs. It opens from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.*The medical center has 25 specialties which provide unique medical service for customer and patients. Medical Centers Labs Outpatient Clinics VACSERA now has 11 outpatient clinics, 3 labs and 6 medical centers. Page 20 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Medical Centers (Diabetes treatment center, Renal dialysis center, Allergy, Immunology and immunotherapy center, Treatment of patients at state expense, Blood transfusion unit and Genetic unit) Labs (Clinical pathology lab and Molecular Biology lab) Outpatient Clinics (Internal medicine clinic, Cardiology clinic, G.I.T. clinic & ultrasonography, Endocrinology clinic, Ophthalmology clinic, Gynecology & Obstetrics, Pediatrics clinic, Skin& Venereal clinic, Orthopedic & Traumatology clinic& X. Ray, E.N.T clinic and Dental clinic) AMedical Centers: 1-VACSERA Diabetes Center: * Just a few years ago access to comprehensive diabetes care was not available in Egypt, but now it is very easy. In VACSERA diabetes Center number of patient on 2009 was about 1000 per month, on 2010 was 1300 per month, on 2011 was 1800 per month, now a days the no. is about 4000 patients coming for follow up every month because we know that individual with diabetes can enjoy long, productive lives tremendously through education & better treatment this service is given freely to the poor patient at the expense of the state. Diabetes Care team: Our goal is help our patients integrate optimal diabetes management into their everyday lives. We strive to remove all the barriers that may make it hard for people to control their blood sugar level. VACSERA diabetes center helps patients & their families to put diabetes in its place this is provided through a wide range of clinicians (pediatric & adult endocurologists) as well as educators nutrtionists, ophthalmologist we understand the impatience of working with the patient in reducing the risk of heart attacks & strokes. We are dedicated to the management of D.M., hypertension hyperglycemia with only one goal to reduce all there complications this is provided through complete medical plan: 1. Monitoring blood glucose level & blood pressure. 2. Investigation (HbAic, cholesterol & triglycerdes level, etc.) 3. Eye & examination. 4. Abdominal & cardiac examination. Page 21 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 5. Continuous education by offering weekly classes on the following topics: Type I, II D.M. Gestational diabetes. Nutrition & diabetes. Ramadan & diabetes. Hajj & diabetes. Exercise & diabetes. 6. Giving patients their treatment (drugs or insulin) freely. 2-Renal Dialysis Center:  The center contains 9 beds for day-use admission for renal dialysis, I.V rehydration, introduction of BCG tumor in cancer bladder patients and for blood transfusion if needed. The center is working 4 shifts and helping about 11230 cases per year. 3-Genetics Unit Center: A. Molecular Lab: *Gene level diagnosis *Carrier detection *Duchene muscular dystrophy and spinal atrophy diagnosis *Finger prints *Early diagnosis of embryo diseases from amniotic fluid Page 22 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 B. Cytogenetic Lab: *Premarital examination *Chromosomal abnormalities *Mental retardation syndrome *Frequent abortion *First trimester screening (PAPPA + free beta-sub) *Second trimester screening (Free beta-subunit + alpha feto protein) C. Genetic Counseling clinic: *Clinical diagnosis for handicapped children *Genetic counseling D. Embryo disease diagnostic clinic: *3D Ultrasongraphy. st *1 and 2nd trimester screening. *Amniocentesis. 4Allergy and Immunology Center:  The prevalence of allergy had been increased in the last decades so the center provide a unique medical service for patients sufferings from allergy represented in allergy from 1Respiratory system (asthma, allergic rhinitis). 2Skin allergy. 3Rhino conjuncts.  Environmental pollutants play an imported role in induction of manifestation of allergy mainly asthma and divided into AChemical pollutants (triggers) such as nitrogen cpd, sulpher (NOX) (SOX). BBiological pollutants (H.D. Mite, cockroaches, animal dander and hair).  In VACSERA allergy and immunology center the number of patients in 2009 was about 1000, 2010 about 1500 and 2011 about 2000.  Page 23 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012  Today the number is about 2500 patients coming for follow up every month, this service is given freely for patients who cannot afford to pay at the expense of the government. Allergy and Immunology Team:  Our goal is quality of the life's patient and to reduce the manifestation of allergy to make them more integrated into their everyday life through the management of allergy by education and better treatment. We are dedicated to the management of allergy by two ways. First by medical treatment (antihistaminic, corticosteroids). Second immuno desensitization by gradually increasing doses of the allergen and this provided through complete medical plan. 1Chest x-ray. 2PEFR. 3Esinophilic count. 4C.B.C 5Patient history. 6Skin prick test (skin allergy test). 7Total IgE. 8Specific IgE. 9Continuous education by offering monthly classes on the following to topics: aAsthma management. bAllergy desensitization. 10Giving patients their treatment (drug, desensitization). 5-Treatment of Patients at State Expense Center:  We have the right to assess the patients' case and we have team for all administration work to issuing with MOH cooperation the declaration for patient therapy at state expense.  We work for issuing about 35000 declarations per year saving the patient effort and time. B-Labs: 1-Clinical pathology lab: * All types of laboratory medical examination including chemical, bacteriological, immunological and Hematology. * Urine, stool and hormonal analysis. * Tumor examination. Page 24 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 *Suspected employees are subjected to Hepatitis, Syphilis, and AIDS tests. * Employees and their relatives are entitled to 25% cost reduction on all laboratory and medical examinations. * In exception to hormonal analysis, blood bank employees are entitled to 50% cost reduction on all laboratory medical examinations. * A lot of needy patients are examined and treated totally free in corporation with the ministry of health. 2-Molecular Biology lab: COutpatient Clinics: 1Internal Medicine Endocrinology Clinic 2Cardiology: equipped with an Electrocardiogram, a Stress/Exercise ECG and Holter 3-G.I.T. Clinic & UltraSonography 4-Ophthalmology Clinic  Ophthalmic minor surgeries can be operated  Examination of ocular pressure and vision screening 5-Gynecology & Obstetrics Page 25 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 6-Pediatrics Clinic 7-Orthopedic & Traumatology Clinic & X. Ray 8-E.N.T. Clinic 9Clinical nutrition Center 10Dental Clinic which provides the following services:  Root Canal treatment (endodontics)  Partial and complete dentures  Crowns and fixed bridges 11Dermatology: equipped with: We have qualified doctors who can deal with different dermatological cases with the help of advanced technology that we have as: a) IPL (intensive pulsed light) for hair removal of skin (Hursitism). b) Chemical peeling. c) UVB for treatment of psoriatic and vitiligo cases. d) Electrocoutery for treatment of skin tags and warts. e) Meso-gun for mesotherapy use (Hair fall). f) Lipolysis. g) Meso-lightening. h) Treatment of dark halos around the eyes. i) Treatment of the coloasma.  There are about 2000 patients / year 50% of them are treated on the expense of the ministry, 25% of patients treated with 50% discount as Vacsera’s employees, 25% are treated by full payment. Page 26 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 *It is important to mention that this Center offers healthcare services to  Vacsera's employees through Medical Care Project  Patients whose treatment expenses are covered by the government  The employees in organizations such as the National Health Insurance, Sudan Embassy, Misr Bank, Shoura Council, the organization for Public Transport.  Public. Free-of-Charge services include: *General check-up and first aid for our employees. *Dental check for employees and patients suffering from Hemophilia. *In cooperation with the Hematology department at Abu El-Reesh Hospital , medical consultants make regular visits to our unit to examine patients and give professional advices. 5-Pharmacy: provides drugs to patients whose treatment expenses are covered by the government Page 27 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 6Knowledge Management Department  The focal point in VACSERA become a part of Knowledge management department which focus on Bridging the gap between research and practice Identify, create, represent, distribute, and enable adoption of insights and experiences. Dealing with management of knowledge as a strategic asset and focus on encouraging knowledge sharing. We respect the global compact principles as Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We facilitate women engagement in science.  Aim to raise awareness between researchers in different scientific areas about the possible ways for international cooperation.  Vacsera is working to enhance Egypt participation in the European framework programs & maximizing synergies between various European commission (EC) instruments for science & technology cooperation.  Vacsera supports cooperation in many fields such as health & biotechnology  It is our target to ensure the dissemination of information & to act as coordinator & facilitator entity for all Egyptian researchers in the ministry of health and population. From 2009 to 2012 VACSERA got two research projects through the EU FP7 program Hepa Cute for surveillance of Hepatitis B. RASP diagnostic project. VACSERA got one research project through the EU RDI program Universal Blood Cells. VACSERA got three Excellency centers through the EU ANDI program Biological production. Virology. Venoms. Page 28 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Page 29 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 *Vacsera adheres strictly to the “ILO's” declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, which was adopted by the International Labor Conference. *Vacsera has a declared a system of regulations which states the terms and condition of duties as well as the penalties and rewarding policy. *Vacsera realizes and protects the right of the workers and employees regarding freedom of association. *80% the employees and workers are members of syndicates according to their specialties and the company strongly supports their participation in various activities in these syndicates. *Vacsera hosts a branch of the syndicate of the workers of the ministry of health . *Vacsera recognizes the right to collective bargaining between the board and the workers. *Vacsera established the Think Tank committee in order to form a mechanism of meeting and sharing ideas between the employees and the board, which can be considered as collective bargaining. *Vacsera does not have any kind of discrimination in its hiring policies based on religion, political beliefs, se or race. *Vacsera is giving an equal treatment and equal pay to both genders, in fact the majority of its staff members are women who hold senior positions in the company. *Vacsera established a specialized data base unit to evaluate the employees' performance, qualifications, skills, and experience without taking into consideration any discrimination of any kind. *Vacsera opposes child labor as there is not any single employee under 18 years old in the company and in our future plans we are willing to take certain measure to monitor our associates and suppliers polices against the child labor. Page 30 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Page 31 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 *Respecting the environment preservation practices is the normal attitude in Vacsera. *Safe & Healthy environment is the policy of all our employees and their commitment is fully achieved. *Vacsera is implanting an Environmental Management System (EMS) which has been assessed and granted registration to ― ISO 14001:1996‖, in November 2003; continuance of registration has been confirmed as a result of the surveillance audit that was performed in September 2004. Our Environmental Policy is ―Safe & Healthy Environment‖ It is announced & understood by all our employees to ensure their commitment. * Senior management commitment is the driving force for the continual improvement process of our environmental performance which constitutes our major environmental objective. *Vacsera Environmental Objectives have been achieved by launching the following Environmental Management Programs: 1. Environmental Management System Documentation & Implementation 2. Environmental Aspect-Impact Identification of Processes, Materials, Products, Equipment, Tools & Services 3. Infrastructure Improvement Program 4. Green Technology adoption in our Product & Process Design Innovation 5. Prevention of Pollution & Infection by: Environmental Measurement & Monitoring Preventive Medicine & Occupational Health program Infectious Waste Treatment Sewage treatment.  Green Area Management Program  EMS Training Program Emergency Preparedness Programs  Compliance with legal regulations & other requirements. Page 32 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 * Environmental Management System Audits are periodically executed in accordance with the Audit Annual Plan .Results of the audits are reported to the top management for review and as a basis for improvement of the environmental management system. 6. Establishing a documentation system for safety issues according to the related international specification and guidelines such as WHO, OSHA, and CDC. Examples: AProviding a specific safety information manual for each unit at Vacsera that includes all safety notes, guidelines, programs, and standard operating procedures (SOP's) to ensure health and safety for all workers and work environment. BProviding the Material Safety Information reference (MSI) specific for all chemicals used in all Vacsera laboratories, referring to the international Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each chemical. 7Establishing Vacsera safety program to accomplish the following goals:AThe protection of our personnel from being exposed to workplace hazards. Bproviding safe environment for production or high quality research by making available safe practices on facilities. CComply with WHO and CDC applicable standards that suit the local requirements and circumstances. DDesignating a safety coordinator team that covers all Vacsera units and departments, who are well trained on general and specific safety rules, and also ensuring that all workers comply with all safety rules. Page 33 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Waste Management Program 1. Separation of uninfected wastes from infected wastes that originate from labs and production 2. Collection of wasted by procedure that ensure the safety of employees. 3. Transportation of wastes to infectious waste treatment unit. 4. Then treatment occurs to convert the infected wastes to uninfected wastes. 5. Dumping of wastes is done through private environmental companies associated to Giza governorate. The whole process is under the supervision of the Ministry of Environment. Page 34 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Page 35 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 * VACSERA has a transparent management system which believes in openness as an essential tool for success and conflict resolution on any level. *Circulation of documents in the company is done under strict official regulations based on transparency and accountability between employees to prevent any illegal practices. *VACSERA has an established legal department which oversees personnel behaviour and carries out investigation whenever needed. This is followed by the enforcement of relevant legal penalties according to the company's internal set of regulations. * Protection Measures: *VACSERA implemented the policy of signing Confidentiality Agreements in various departments. Employees sign this agreement on obligatory basis, especially before being assigned critical projects to work on within the company. *This kind of agreement helps protect the employees against unintentional disclosure of confidential information. We are considering the spreading of this kind of awareness in the organization through formal training sessions. * Intellectual Property refers to creations of the mind: inventions, literary and artistic works, symbols, names, images and designs used in commerce.  No. of patents filed: 22  No. of issued patents: 14  No. of trademarks: 2 IP role in society: Protection of an invention as a patent gives the company exclusive rights to use this invention, so intellectual property rights is important in the pharmaceutical field to face infringement. A strong intellectual property system promotes innovation which benefits the public by offering solutions to problems. To obtain a patent, an inventor is required to make a technical disclosure that will enable persons skilled in the relevant area of technology to make & use the invention. It also makes the knowledge available to others who would build on it. Page 36 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 IP role for Vacsera's employees: If any researcher invents or contributes in making an invention, this invention will be protected by a patent & the inventor is entitled to be named as such in the patent application & the company is entitled as assignee. Vacsera provide incentives to researcher who invent or contribute in making an invention. Page 37 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 PART 3 The Indicators Page 38 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 Page 39 of 41 VACSERA GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 For seen back about this report please contact, Dr. Maha Abd el Latif Hassan Maha.latif@vacsera.com Or Maha_kh6@yahoo.com Page 40 of 41
