2 introduction Who we are and what we do Noble Group manages a global supply chain of agricultural, energy, metals and mineral part in a discussion panel on sustainable growth at the annual Asian Financial Forum. ceo’s message resources. Noble operates from over 140 locations, employing more than 70 nationalities. Noble manages a diversified portfolio of essential raw materials, integrating the sourcing, The discussion shed light on the challenges associated with anticipated growth in demand for energy and raw materials, and the opportunities to adopt eco-friendly marketing, processing, financing and transportation of these products. The Group also technologies and solutions early in development. Our actions and approach towards Dear Stakeholders, owns and manages a number of strategic assets which assist in sourcing resources from sustainability are reflected in the following passage from the introductory speech As the new Chief Executive Officer of Noble Group, I am pleased to confirm Noble’s continued support of the low cost producers, such as Brazil, Argentina, Australia and Indonesia. These are supplied delivered by Mr. Elman: “Prevention is easier than a cure. It will be far more expensive UN Global Compact and its ten principles in respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. to high demand and growth markets, including China, India and the Middle East. to try and adapt to serious climate change than to reduce our impact in the first place. Over the past two years these principles have started to become part of Noble’s way of conducting business. As examples Today, Noble has interests in grain crushing facilities, coal and iron ore mines, fuel We can’t control nature, but we can control our impact on it.” of this commitment an increasing number of Noble businesses have undertaken initiatives to support local communities terminals and storage facilities, sugar and ethanol plants, ports, vessels and other key At a regional level, our engagement with the Global Compact Local Network in a range of ways, with special emphasis on education. An increasing number of our supply chains have developed infrastructure, ensuring that high quality products are delivered to our customers in aspires to make progress in addressing critical issues within the region. customized products that are certified carbon neutral. These actions demonstrate that the principles that form the the most efficient and timely manner. Noble Group’s Global Strategy Meeting in 2011 continued to stimulate strategic basis of the UN Global Compact are not simply mission statements but are put into action by Noble. discussion among Noble’s senior management of ways in which to further I feel it is important to stress that as a participant in the markets for numerous natural resources, we are conscious of the need to carefully Implementation of the 10 principles into company life promote the UN Global Compact’s principles. develop and maintain sustainable supply chains. Many of the industries we are involved in require care and attention to ensure they will be This issue of Communication on Progress (COP) marks the second year of Noble Group’s Our commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles assists us in bringing productive for Noble, our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate in the long run. commitment to the UN Global Compact. In the past 12 months, we have continued focus to crucial CSR standards and provide a guideline for their integration into At a time of heightened social and economic instability, environmental challenges and climate change all companies must endeavor to do implementing the 10 universal principles of the UN Global Compact into our commodity Noble’s business operations. This Communication on Progress (COP) describes their best to try and create a business environment that is sustainable to all stakeholders. This is in many respects what we believe the supply chain business. We have engaged and invested in various community projects and the progress we have made implementing these 10 principles in the areas of UN Global Compact aims to encourage and at Noble we are fully committed to this goal. initiatives to foster our relationship in the locations from which we operate. We have aligned human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The document also the eligibility criteria for our Noble Group’s Charity Foundation at the Group level and provides an overview of our commitment to the UN Global Compact and the many of our local operations have continued to establish initiatives to support those in need. relevance of the specific principles for Noble. This is accompanied by a brief Noble advocates policies and actions to advance broader UN goals and issues both description of our policies and systems, as well as our activities and their outcome Yusuf Alireza internally and externally. In January, Mr. Richard Elman, Executive Chairman, took and impact on our day-to-day business. Chief Executive Officer 4 human rights Principle 1 Human rights are high on our agenda; we uphold them always and often go Businesses should support and respect the protection beyond the legislative requirements. We invest in real actions to address issues such of internationally proclaimed human rights; and as education, health and safety, water and sanitation in communities in need. We do not tolerate human rights abuses within the scope of our business operations. Principle 2 Supporting Human Rights in Noble’s policies and actions make sure that they are not complicit in At Noble, every new employee attends an induction workshop to learn about human rights abuses. our company culture, rules and regulations, as well as our company principles. Hence, all employees are informed about their rights as reflected under existing Our Commitment policies, which are updated on a regular basis. In our offices, education on Noble is committed to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. business ethics and conduct are regularly held in order to affirm the procedures Our Code of Conduct – and other Group Policies demand that all Noble for reporting any such violations in the workplace. employees comply with the law in every jurisdiction in which we operate and At the Group level, we have a dedicated team conducting systematic internal apply to all employees of the Group and each of its subsidiaries’ directors, audits across all our operations and assets. In addition to ensuring compliance officers and employees. The Code and other Policies set out principles to guide with national requirements, the team also makes certain that all locations are employees in carrying out their duties and responsibilities. These principles adhering to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Any risks identified are require the highest standards of personal and corporate integrity when included in a review report and presented to the Operations Head for further action. dealing on behalf of the Group with its customers, suppliers, competitors When we acquire a new asset, any past, current or potential future liabilities and and the community. breaches of human rights are investigated as part of the legal due diligence we conduct. 6 We address basic needs such as health and education, while always encouraging our local employees to engage and contribute. Occupational safety at Noble’s Chinese soybean processing plants YCAB Foundation – Hands-on Operation for When we expand our supply chains into new territories, valuable investments Safety is our top priority. Noble Group focuses on Entrepreneurship (HOpE) are also made in infrastructure improvements which often bring economic and social creating a work environment with zero accidents. This non-profit organization based in Jakarta, wellbeing in impoverished regions within countries such as in Argentina, By coaching and improving employee engagement, Indonesia focuses in youth development by Brazil, China, India and Indonesia. Furthermore, across all locations Noble Noble has transformed the view of workplace safety remunerates employees at least at the level of the minimum wage. supporting access to education and economic from being simply a compliance regulation to safety We are fully aware that we operate in some regions that have a history of difficult assistance. The HOpE program provides micro loans being an integral part of the company culture. relations between resource extraction, farming industries and indigenous peoples. Building on Noble’s Group-wide health and safety assessment conducted in 2011, to female micro entrepreneurs on the condition that In Noble’s Chinese processing plants in Qinzhou and However we endeavor to address these issues and concerns by building relationships we maintain our ongoing commitment to control risks and improve safety performance they put their children in school. The project aims with local communities. We are pleased to report that in 2011/2012 we received no formal Longkou, we have recently reached a milestone in safety: in all of our assets and operations. One of our largest assets, the oilseed processing to create a stable income to the families of these complaints of any violations of the rights of indigenous peoples. facility and port terminal in Timbúes, Argentina, was recently certified for compliance operating for more than one million safe working hours. students so they can focus on their studies. Noble has Furthermore, with many of our community investment projects, which are often with OHSAS 18000 Standard, a management system that ensures high levels Furthermore, Noble’s other plants in China are not far behind. committed to supporting the micro loan program for initiated by our local operations, we address basic needs such as health and education, of occupational health and safety. Globally, we have a good safety record and in One million is the interim target and sustained effort is put into three years. while always encouraging our local employees to engage and contribute. An example most locations we have had no reported injuries or workplace illnesses. An example safeguarding the health and wellbeing of our workforce. of a community project to empower women is illustrated below. of our safety achievements is illustrated below. 8 labour Principle 3 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the the effective abolition of child labour; and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 Principle 6 the elimination of all forms of forced and the elimination of discrimination in respect of compulsory labour; employment and occupation. Our Commitment Noble’s Code of Conduct sets forth the requirements for compliance as well as the discrimination are tolerated and we encourage and promote procedures for reporting guidelines on the key labour issues, which are an integral part of the principles any unwelcome attitudes in the workplace. In 2011/2012 we received no credible advocated in the UN Global Compact. complaints of discrimination in any of our locations. We support the freedom of association and collective bargaining for our The Group is committed to a high standard of ethical conduct and our employees in the countries we operate in and diligently comply with local labour managers are responsible for ensuring that the Equal Opportunities Policy laws and regulations. and other labour principles are adhered to in their departments. Noble has At Noble, any kind of forced or compulsory labour is not tolerated and we do not adopted and implemented a whistle-blowing policy where employees may, exploit child labour in any of our global operations. in confidence, raise concerns on possible corporate improprieties in matters We value diversity at every level of our organization and respect the rights of unlawful activity, policy or practices, suspected fraud, corruption, dishonest of our 14,000 employees of more than 70 nationalities in almost 40 countries practices or other similar matters. There are also arrangements in place around the world. Our Equal Opportunities Policy applies to every employee in for an independent investigation of such issues and for appropriate follow the Group and commits Noble to eliminating discrimination, harassment and up action where necessary. Moreover, appraisal procedures are in place victimization at the workplace. that focus on employees’ development and succession planning and ensure management engagement. Implementation of Labour Standards in Noble’s policies and actions Many Noble employees, especially in countries such as Brazil, Argentina and China We have clear policies and training practices to combat discrimination. In our where key installations are located, are represented by trade unions. Our employees offices, education on business ethics and conduct is undertaken. Our employees are represented by a number of different trade unions or similar bodies, and we respect receive mandatory training on workplace conduct on a regular basis. No forms of and cooperate with these bodies. 10 Responsible Cocoa Sourcing 286,822 hours of technical, safety, Noble Cocoa believes that integrating sustainability and leadership training were into business practices is essential to secure the long term supply of cocoa and to maintain a profitable provided to employees in the first cocoa business. Helping farmers to improve their half of 2012 alone. livelihoods through increased revenue from better crop yields and quality will ensure that cocoa is grown in In some countries in which we operate, we are under collective agreements with unions, which stipulate labour conditions and eliminate any kind of forced sustainable ways that safeguard the environment and build long term value throughout the supply chain. Noble’s sugar mills awarded for Labour Conditions or compulsory labour. 63% of our employees are covered by such collective bargaining agreements. Our Code for Responsible Sourcing aims to achieve Initiated by the President of Brazil in 2008, the National sugar mills – Meridiano, Catanduva, Potirendaba and When we undertake investments in new assets, labour-related risks and compliance the highest possible social and environmental Commitment to Labour Conditions in the sugarcane Sebastianopolis – certifications for recognizing the with local labour laws and regulations form part of our due diligence and risk analysis. standards in all our operations and also our suppliers’ industry seeks to guarantee new rights and better quality National Commitment. At Noble, we recognize the strong correlation between poverty and child labour. business operations. This guarantees compliance with of life for its workers. We seek to play a positive role in this region and Limited access to quality education for minors jeopardizes the children’s future and The Commitment serves as the basis for initiating support local community projects. Last year Noble international labour regulations and addresses key hence Noble invests and supports initiatives in regions at risk. issues facing cocoa farming communities. public and private actions to improve working Bioenergia partnered with the Votuporanga municipality In line with our business growth, we have continued to expand our trainee To date, we have empowered over 2500 farmers conditions. It includes public programmes and policies to upgrade a health clinic in Vila América, and programmes, building on the structured apprenticeship approach in three areas: product trainees, corporate and industrial trainees. Through last year’s office-wide in Côte d’Ivoire, training them in good agricultural to protect workers; models of good business practice constructed two new health clinics in the Canaã and initiative, working with managers to identify high potential individuals in their teams, practices and the UTZ CERTIFIED Code of Conduct – in sugar and ethanol production units, as well as an Cecap II neighbourhoods. Every year, Noble offers more than 120 employees worldwide were identified as having high potential, leading the leading certification programme for sustainable emphasis on workers’ remuneration, health and safety horticulture lessons and literacy classes for rural workers to more than 30 job promotions and additional training and coaching. We also cocoa production – to improve the overall productivity and union activities. and through various partnership programs, we provide increased the hours of training for Noble’s employees in our sugar mills in Brazil. and quality of their cocoa, enabling them to increase Noble’s commitment to offer competitive products financial support to help children to meet their nutritional 286,822 hours of technical, safety, and leadership training were provided to employees their incomes and improve their standard of living. while ensuring workers’ rights has earned its four needs and develop knowledge and skills. in the first half of 2012 alone. 12 environment Principle 7 supports a precautionary approach to the environmental challenge posed by climate Businesses should support a precautionary approach to change. Furthermore, Noble Group supports the development and diffusion of environmental challenges; environmentally friendly technologies in various areas of its business. Principle 8 Implementing measures to protect the environment undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental All Noble employees are encouraged to reduce the environmental footprint of the company by controlling their resource usage, including energy, water and paper. responsibility; and In addition, environmental performance data with regards to CO2 emissions in our offices are collected and assessed for our Group-wide carbon neutral project. Principle 9 These results are certified independently. encourage the development and diffusion of At the asset level, environmental impact assessments are conducted according to legal environmentally friendly technologies. regulations and principles before we purchase new installations. Various environmental policies exist onsite at our assets. For example, our Australian coal mines, Timbúes oilseed Our Commitment processing complex and our Chinese crushing mills operate based on the principles of the As our business relies on the availability of natural resources, Noble promotes environmental management system ISO14001; monitoring systems are in place for water, environmental responsibility. We are committed to protecting sensitive and air quality, biodiversity, soil, and noise management. important areas of the world’s ecosystems, despite our business being confronted At various assets, Noble has invested in climate-friendly renewable energy technology. by an array of environmental challenges, including water and air pollution, A key investment realized this year was a bio-diesel plant Noble procured for one of biodiversity and resource depletion amongst others. In particular, the company its crushing plants in Argentina. Soybean oil produced onsite will provide the 14 Since the inception of Noble Group’s Carbon Neutral Project, more than 735,000 tonnes of CO2 have been offset with carbon credits generated from renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. energy feedstock for the plant. Several investments kick-started last year for In addition, Noble Group’s Clean Fuels Division is dedicated to provide solutions chain from Côte d’Ivoire last year to create a new product: Carbon Neutral Cocoa from El Carmen Transboundary Biodiversity example, biomass-fired cogeneration units in Argentina, Brazil and the Ukraine to alternative fuel sources while reducing environmental impacts. Noble is active in Côte d’Ivoire. Since the inception of Noble Group’s Carbon Neutral Project, more than Conservation Initiative have been continued. distributing bio-fuels and diversifying our energy assets in the clean fuels sector. 735,000 tonnes of CO2 have been offset with carbon credits generated from renewable El Carmen, a private trans-boundary nature reserve In expanding its owned fleet of ships to meet the growing demands of its Noble’s integrated supply chain strategy capitalizes on the rising regional demand and energy and energy efficiency projects in India, China and America. along the border between Mexico and the United States, integrated supply chain strategy, Noble is acquiring and building ships that shifts in consumption patterns to clean fuels. Furthermore, for its first response to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2011, is considered one of the five great wilderness are more energy efficient. Noble has also adopted a Vessel/Barge Chartering Noble also partners with NGOs, for example, Civic Exchange in Hong Kong, to Noble achieved the second highest score for carbon emissions disclosure in Asia ecosystems of the world. It is home to more than and Vetting Policy, the purpose of which is to ensure that all vessels chartered draw in scientific expertise in researching risks and potential adaptation measures to (ex-Japan). In our submission, we reported on the Noble Group’s greenhouse gas 500 species of plants, over 200 species of birds, for the transportation of petroleum, petroleum products, chemicals and LPG environmental issues. Since 2007 Noble Group has supported the efforts of the World emissions and all risks and opportunities related to climate change. The total Scope 8 0 s p e c i e s o f ma m ma l s , a n d 6 5 s p e c i e s o f meet certain specified criteria and undergo screening by external vetting Wildlife Fund (WWF). WWF Hong Kong engages in the preservation of nature 1 and 2 emissions combined amounted to 2,765,523 metric tonnes CO2e, an increase experts. Noble has also adopted an Emergency Oil Spill Response Plan to reserves in Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta regions. of 9.5% compared to the base year. The overall increase in absolute emissions for reptiles and amphibians. In an effort to protect ensure that, in the unfortunate event of an oil spill involving one of its We have also expanded our activities in the area of climate change mitigation. scope 1 and scope 2 reflects the growth of the company and its expansion in asset this ecosystem and restore natural habitats, vessels or terminals, it is able to respond in an immediate, effective and Noble’s Carbon Neutral project was initiated in 2007 with the aim of driving the investments. It is worthy to note that our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions figures were Noble Group entered an agreement in Februar y responsible manner. company step-by-step towards carbon neutrality. In 2011, Noble’s beneficiary ships, verified to confirm their completeness and accuracy. Noble’s signing and participation 2012 with Cemex, a building materials company, Our state-of-the-art liquid bulk storage terminal at Botlek Tank Terminal all Noble offices worldwide, Noble’s publications and top management events again in the CDP has brought a fresh focus to managing the risks and opportunities presented to collaborate in biodiversity and conser vation in the Netherlands operates virtually emission free vapours from loading are achieved carbon neutrality. After carrying out a similar exercise for our coffee supply by climate change to our operations, leading to the incorporation of new initiatives to efforts at El Carmen Mountains. recovered to protect both product value and environmental impact. chain in Brazil, we calculated the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions of our cocoa supply reduce greenhouse gas emissions into our overall business strategy. 16 anti-corruption Principle 10 Noble’s Code of Conduct contains a procedure for the good faith reporting of any Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, violation of the Code or other Noble Policies. including extortion and bribery. Additionally, Noble has appropriate systems and controls in place, such as regular check procedures conducted by our internal audit team, to ensure compliance with respect Our Commitment to anti-bribery and anti-corruption measures. Noble is against any form of corruption. It is our policy not to engage in any Noble’s Compliance Team conducts regular training for staff on a wide variety of form of corruption, bribery or anti-trust behavior, nor to violate fair competition. issues, including anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, competition, sanctions and We acknowledge our actions are constantly under scrutiny. Our core values of environmental compliance. being accountable and responsible extend to our shared commitment to prevent fraud and corruption. Global Training on commodity market abuse compliance Precautionary measures to prevent corruption As part of our global compliance training to enforce Noble has an experienced Compliance Team which is dedicated to ensuring that Noble’s ethical behavior, in 2012 Noble is organizing seminars business is undertaken in conformity with applicable laws and regulations. Compliance on commodity market abuse compliance across Team personnel are based in our largest trading offices. our main trading centres. The training was/is held Our Group-wide policies with respect to anti-corruption, anti-trust, anti-money by our compliance officers for traders and managers laundering, combating financial crime, terrorist financing, sanctions and fraud are outlined in detail in Noble’s Code of Conduct. Specific rules on security trading when exposed to such risks already more than 800 in possession of internal, confidential information are circulated among our employees employees have attended the course. The trainings regularly and set out in a separate policy. refresh legal guidance in both the EU and the US, All Noble employees worldwide are given explicit guidance on ethical business including an introduction to specific EU Gas & Power practices, such as conflicts of interest, entertainment and gifts. Their sector requirements and regulatory obligations when acknowledgment is part of the induction process mandatory for every new employee engaging in futures commodity trading in the US. joining the company. 18 outlook Noble emphasizes its strong support for policies and actions to continue to implement the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. As we operate within or enter new communities, we will continue to ensure We will maintain close contact with that our initiatives are driven by the greatest local needs. In the coming year, we will maintain close contact with those impacted those impacted by our activities and by our activities and ensure they are aware and involved in our initiatives. ensure they are aware and involved We aim to continue the work we have already started and will review our existing and new initiatives and community involvement. in our initiatives. Management is committed to working towards increasing staff and community engagement and awareness of the UN Global Compact principles to ensure the organization is well-placed to meet its obligations into the future.
