2011 Company Report We passionately create enthusiastic customers and build a better future. Overview. Key figures (in CHF million) 2011 2010 Change Net sales 3,998 3,930 +68 Operating result 207 268 –61 Cash flow from operating activities 242 376 –134 Net income 97 142 –45 Employees (as at December 31) 21,848 20,305 +1,543 Net sales (in CHF million) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 4,667 4,700 3,845 3,930 3,998 Operating result (in CHF million) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 600 500 400 300 200 100 533 450 172 268 207 This is Hilti. We supply the construction industry with technologically superior products, systems and services. We provide innovative solutions that feature outstanding added value. We passionately create enthusiastic customers and build a better future with approximately 22,000 team members located in more than 120 countries around the world. We live clear values. Integrity, the courage to embrace change, teamwork and commitment are the foundations of our corporate culture. We combine long-term financial success with comprehensive responsibility toward society and the environment. Reciprocal tenets of openness, honesty and tolerance apply to team members, partners and suppliers alike. Our corporate goal is to generate sustainable profitable growth. Topics. 04 Editorial 06 Strategy 10 Customers 16 Areas of business 22 Products 28 Research and development 34 Team members 40 Executive Board 42 Board of Directors 44 Corporate responsibility 64 Key figures 76 Trades Publisher: Hilti Corporation, Corporate Communications, PO Box 333, 9494 Schaan, Liechtenstein Editor-in-chief: Jessica Nowak Editorial team / Text / Translation: Nicole Bays, Priya Ender, Claudia Fernus, Matthias Hassler, Stephan Moosbrugger, Jessica Nowak, Anja Nöstler-Büchel, Susie Wellendorf, Chris Larson Design: Jeannine Merkli Photography: Uli Reitz, AlpTransit Gotthard AG, Aaron Bunch (Karratha, Australia), Jason Hendriks, Ambient Photography (Toronto, Canada), Karl Hopkinson, Image Group (Preston, England), Roland Korner, Close up AG (Triesen, Liechtenstein), Wolfgang C. Kuthan (Thüringen, Austria), Dmitry Kuzmin, with the kind permission of PWC (Moscow, Russia), Jorge Lara Martinez, Doos Comunicación Gráfica (Mexico City, Mexico), Michael Zanghellini, zanghellini.li Fotografie (Schaanwald, Liechtenstein), Leiming Zhang, Newsco (Shanghai, China) Printed by: BVD Druck + Verlag AG (Schaan, Liechtenstein) Image processing: Miro Repro (Hamburg, Germany) The Company Report is published in German and English. Duplication, even in part, only with permission of the publisher. The complete Financial Report, principles of corporate governance, a Group organizational chart, list of consolidated companies and information on the Martin Hilti Family Trust may be found on the Internet at www.hilti.com. This Company Report was printed on paper bleached without chlorine. 4 Editorial 2011 Hilti Company Report Dear Readers, From Hilti’s point of view, the summary of the 2011 in 2012. The core of our efforts is based on what business year has two sides. While we posted makes Hilti so unique: our quality, strength of innoabove-average worldwide sales growth and vation and differentiation in both products and sergained added market share, our successes were vices – all of which generate enthusiasm as well as not significantly reflected in our operating result. true added value for our customers. There are many reasons for this. The decisive resource we need to achieve our asNegative currency influences and rising material pirations is our employees. Their great commitand logistics costs are contributing factors. The ment and bond with Hilti were reflected in 2011 significant strategic investments we made in through top rankings in numerous benchmark growth markets and new areas of business, some competitions on employee satisfaction. We are of which have yet to generate satisfactory profitproud of this recognition and will build on these reability, also impacted our overall results. sults in the future. A competent and highly motivated team is invaluable, particularly in demanding The strong level of increased sales is a confirmatimes. tion of our strategy of maintaining focus on growth markets and new business areas where we can set 2012 will be characterized by new challenges and ourselves apart from the competition and generate changes. We will target our investments, and we sustainable profitable growth. Our operating result will perceptively adapt our structures. We will nonetheless clearly shows that we must return to a strongly focus on profitability, but not at the cost more robust performance level to sustain our inof sustainability. We also will allocate competenvestments and better prepare for future global incies and responsibilities for maximum impact. One fluences and market uncertainties. thing remains certain amid any changes: Hilti will remain Hilti. This is true for our customers as well Growth is important, but it must be profitable. as our team members. Profitability is key, but it must be sustainable. Together they form the mainspring for our activities Pius Baschera Bo Risberg Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer 5 6 Strategy 2011 Hilti Company Report Differentiation is, and will continue to be, our claim. Bo Risberg, Chief Executive Officer: “We have to look closely at where and how we can focus on differentiation while also being able to grow in a sustainably profitable manner.” 7 Our goal is to achieve a sustainable double-digit return on sales. 2011 was a year replete with both highs and lows. Hilti accelerated its rate of growth in most countries and gained greater market share. But extensive currency influences and rising material and logistics costs had a strongly negative influence on results. The company plans to significantly improve profitability in the coming months through the consistent implementation of a program of initiatives. 8 Strategy 2011 Hilti Company Report Mr. Risberg, how did 2011 play out for Hilti? We also will adapt our cost structure and have Bo Risberg: We took significant steps in terms of begun to significantly reduce expenses at our corsales and posted double-digit sales growth in porate headquarters, where we are optimizing numerous countries over many months, and we organizational structures and processes. In addialso improved our market position. There were tion to sustainable profitable growth, our goal is to even positive sales results in North America, where become faster, more flexible and more efficient the construction industry remains slow. In Europe and to package competencies wherever it makes the picture diverged due to the growing debt probsense. lems in some countries, but was also positive overall. We were satisfied with sales development Will there be a change to Hilti’s strategy? in the growth markets and in our new areas of Bo Risberg: In principle, no. Our strategy is the business in 2011, even if we invested significantly right one and also serves as the basis for our subin support of this growth. But despite our solid sequent development. Differentiation is, and will sales growth, our overall result is significantly continue to be, our claim. As a result our focus will below the prior-year level and not at all remain on our quality, power of innovation, consatisfactory. sulting competence and service level. Now we have to see exactly which markets, which segWhat put so much pressure on the result? ments and which product and service portfolios Bo Risberg: The greatest influence was generated are appropriate for differentiation while also being by the massive currency losses. The strong appreable to generate profitable growth. ciation of the Swiss franc alone influenced our net income by more than 120 million Swiss francs. But What are your expectations for this year? we also had to contend with rising material prices Bo Risberg: In times such as these it’s difficult to and higher transportation costs. The rise in transmake a forecast because the entire atmosphere portation costs was not solely due to external facwill continue to be volatile. Overall we expect the tors. This also was based on our strong growth in market to cool and to see a further shift of ecodeveloping countries. But these additional influnomic power and financial strength towards develences were all the more painful for us because of oping markets. But I’m also confident, particularly the numerous strategic investments we made in regarding our profitability. We expect to see strong developing countries and in new areas of business growth in our operating result this year, but with in 2011. We were not as profitable in 2011 as we lower sales growth than in 2011. Both customer should have been. and market requirements will continue to change: worldwide competition will become more difficult Does this mean you will stop investing? and the demands on global players will grow. We Bo Risberg: Certainly not. Investments in growth know what we can do and where we want to go markets and segments where we can improve our and we have a certain something that many other position and market share are central to Hilti’s companies envy. We are owned by a family trust strategy. In the future we will have to better target which is oriented towards the long term. We also our opportunities, and we will primarily invest have a motivated and competent worldwide team, where we can generate the most profitable growth. innovative products and services, as well as the Our focus will clearly rest on increasing our profitcourage and ability to change and adapt to a shiftability. This applies not only to developing our maring framework. This gives us what we need to genket share in various countries or to new areas of erate sustainable success, even in a volatile business, but also for all areas of investment. environment. 9 We belong at the side of our customers. Marco Meyrat, Executive Board Member: “Two-thirds of our employees are involved in sales and engineering, acting directly on behalf of our customers. This generates more than 200,000 customer contacts every day.” 10 Customers 2011 Hilti Company Report Hilti know-how was in demand during the construction of the 12th line of Mexico City’s Metro transportation system. 11 12 Customers 2011 Hilti Company Report There has to be more than merely good products. Hilti places the needs of customers at the top of the priority list. This is why Hilti employees are there when the customer needs them, whether to provide technical support, to assist in product tests or to deliver replacement tools. Three questions for José Mr. Espinoza, why did you decide to partner Oscar Bernal Espinoza, Project with Hilti on this project? Manager for ICA on the conBecause we know the brand well and have enjoyed many years of struction of the “Estación 20 cooperation with Hilti. We also have concluded a Hilti Fleet Managede Noviembre” metro station. ment agreement that provides us with replacement tools, if we need them, quickly and without red tape. Where do you see the added value of working with Hilti? The constant availability of account managers when we face questions or problems, and the associated excellent service. The quality level of Hilti’s consulting services and product support is very high. Were there any problems during construction of the “Estación 20 de Noviembre”? No. Everything went very smoothly. We enjoyed good cooperation with all our partners and Hilti always supported us with advice and know-how. 13 Striving to be the best possible partner. The construction of the 12th line of Mexico City’s Metro transportation system places significant demands on all participating companies. This makes the task of Hilti’s Project Coordinator very important to ICA, the secondlargest construction company in Mexico. The project coordinator is on the construction site every day, organizing important topics, carrying out advance planning work and thinking ahead. 14 Customers 2011 Hilti Company Report “The biggest challenge is keeping up with the there for us when we require support and this is schedule,” says Carlos Gidi Casas, Hilti’s primary very helpful for us as, in the end, it saves us time Project Coordinator. “There is a distance of 50 and money.” kilometers between the Line 12 project and the Emisor Oriente Tunnel, which are being built at the The Mexico City Metro is the second-largest subsame time. The two projects need to be bridged in way system in North America and was the first terms of logistics. We have our hands full at the worldwide to designate stations via individual moment.” Gidi Casas has managed all of Hilti’s logos, a system that developed due to the high activities associated with this large project since it illiteracy rate prevalent when the system’s first line began three years ago. He holds all the strings, opened in 1969. The construction of Line 12, whether in terms of sales, consulting or adminiswhich will again increase the capacity of the entire trative questions. “I’m the first point of contact for metro network, was set in motion in 2007. Concustomers,” explains Gidi Casas. struction work should conclude this year. As Project Coordinator he not only ensures that Eight Hilti employees are directly involved in the any questions are answered as quickly as possiproject, including a key account manager, two ble, he also does everything he can to quickly sugsales managers and one field engineer. Carlos Gidi gest product solutions or provide customers with Casas remains at the center of all the activity, looksuitable applications. “We want to offer a type of ing after the needs and concerns of customers customized service throughout all phases of the around the clock, if required. “Our claim is to be project,” says Gidi Casas. This approach is a popthe best partner for our customers. Not only when ular one with customers as delays are the last it comes to demonstrating an application or in thing they want to deal with on the construction terms of sales, but also when it comes to solid site. José Oscar Bernal Espinoza, Project Manager consulting, providing great service and standing with ICA on the construction of the “Estación 20 shoulder to shoulder with the customer,” says the de Noviembre” metro station, adds: “Hilti is always Project Coordinator. 15 The Pluto Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Plant in Western Australia. Contractors in the energy and industry sector expect a high level of safety and efficiency for Hilti relevant applications. 16 Areas of business 2011 Hilti Company Report Going the extra mile. Christoph Loos, Executive Board Member: “Hilti has become a presence in the energy and industry sector through its participation in numerous large projects. The company’s goal is to further establish its core abilities and competencies in these areas, thereby underpinning the Hilti Group’s growth on a global basis.” 17 18 Areas of business 2011 Hilti Company Report Meeting demands in a harsh environment. As one of the contractors involved in the construction of the Pluto LNG Plant, Monadelphous is responsible for providing structural, mechanical and piping works to the project. With a team of international specialists, Hilti assists this customer in every phase of the project. Three questions for Dave Mr. Burch, productivity, efficiency and safety have the utmost Burch, Senior Construction priority in your industry. How did the solutions Hilti provided Manager with Monadelphous. support these aspects? With first-class consulting services and many product training sessions. This helped us to complete many tasks faster and easier than we would have otherwise. This is very important because during peak construction times there were more than 1,000 Monadelphous workers at the facility. What type of challenges did you face in this project? Working in such a remote area definitely has its challenges, especially when you are more than 1,500 kilometers away from the capital city of Western Australia. Having an efficient logistics network is vital. Hilti was able to meet these demanding supply conditions from the outset. The harsh climate of this region also posed challenges; and that’s where Hilti products and know-how helped, such as the X-BT grating fastening system made of stainless steel components. What aspects of your relationship with Hilti impressed you? Whether it is the competence of their technical support, their customer service or the reliability, the commitment provided by Hilti was unparalleled. Hilti technical and service representatives provided valuable support during the project. There aren’t many suppliers who back up their products with that type of service offering. 19 No compromising on quality and service. New natural gas fields are being tapped in the Pilbara region of Western Australia, 1,535 kilometers north of Perth. The Pluto LNG Plant being constructed there will produce approximately 4.3 million tons of gas per year. Hilti supports customers in this large project, from product specification to on-site logistics. There is a hive of activity on the giant industrial site Natural gas is a significant source of energy in the on the Indian Ocean, under the unforgiving sun of future of the world economy. With the Pluto LNG the Australian Pilbara. Construction cranes, steel Project and other production and processing facilitowers, giant tanks and a labyrinth-like pipe system ties in the planning stages, Australia aims to flicker in the midday sun as if a mirage. The Pluto become one of the world’s leading producers of LNG Project is one of many large projects worldliquefied natural gas. A massive amount of investwide that is supported by the specialists from Hilti’s ment is going into the Pluto LNG Project – a joint Energy and Industry Business Area. For more than venture between the facility’s operator, Woodside, ten years Hilti has made incremen­tal inroads into who owns 90 percent of the project, and partners new markets in this area. 20 Areas of business 2011 Hilti Company Report Tokyo Gas (TG) and Kansai Electric (KE), who each between late spring and early autumn. To tolerate hold a five percent interest in the foundation the variable weather conditions, the chemical project. anchor used due to its high load capacity and wide range of installation temperatures was Hilti The facility has been under construction since HIT-RE 500. “The construction site and the struc2007 and the first gas shipments should flow in tures being built need to endure the harshest of early 2012. Hilti’s involvement in the project has weather conditions, that’s why there is no comprobeen as a supplier and technical consultant to a mising on quality,” says Dave Burch, Senior Connumber of construction companies contracted to struction Manager at Monadelphous. “With Hilti we work on the site. Since work began, Hilti Australia get support from the experts and have absolute has supplied the project with more than 6 kilomefaith that their products meet the strictest ters of MI-90 girder, part of the MI-90 channel requirements.” installation system, used as cable tray support under the project’s seven substations, as well as An international team of Hilti specialists and engi80,000 X-BT and X-FCM-R 25/30 grating discs, neers from Australia, England and Liechtenstein for securing grating on many of the elevated walkworked on product specifications, as well as in ways. Apart from the corrosive environment technical planning, sales consulting and logistics. caused by the coastal location, temperatures reguThe smooth cross-border teamwork and the highly larly reach 40° Celsius and higher in the summer differentiated offering of applications and services months and cyclones causing torrential downturned out to be decisive factors in the success of pours and devastating winds are not uncommon the project within Hilti. 21 The Hilti HAC anchor channel increases the ability to take up greater shear loads close to edges. It was the first choice of contractors constructing the “L’Avenue” luxury shopping center in Shanghai. 22 Products 2011 Hilti Company Report Our products deliver what we promise. Stefan Nöken, Executive Board Member: “We have the right products for every application. Our product portfolio is regularly monitored and adapted to meet changing market needs.” 23 24 Products 2011 Hilti Company Report Hilti sets product standards for tomorrow. The small details are often decisive when it comes to representing the true quality of a product. This was the case with the Hilti HAC anchor channel, which has thoroughly convinced users with its new V shape – unheard of in the market until now. Three questions for Helen Xue, How has the Chinese market responded to the Hilti HAC Product Manager with Hilti anchor channel? China who leads the While cast-in anchor channels are a new product in the Hilti portfo“L’Avenue” project, the new lio, they have been used in the Chinese market for some time. Therebusiness complex being built fore our biggest challenge was to convince construction professionin Shanghai by the Moët Henals, who had been using competitor products, of the advantages of nessy Louis Vuitton luxury our anchor channel. Hilti China thus prepared a six-month soft group and by Stanley Ho, the launch and conducted product launch seminars in Shanghai, Beijing Hong Kong billionaire and real and Shenzhen, where most of the curtain wall companies and conestate entrepreneur. sultants are based. “L’Avenue” is the first building in China to feature the new Hilti HAC anchor channel. How did this come about? Hilti’s anchor channel had yet to be launched when building specifications were drawn up. When the Gartner Company was selected to carry out façade construction, and the technical requirements for the project had been specified, the engineers involved immediately thought of Hilti HAC. Which characteristics of the Hilti product proved decisive? The ability to take up greater shear loads close to edges and the fast and simple installation. 25 26 Products 2011 Hilti Company Report Where luxury meets precision technology. The new office building of the Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton luxury group and Hong Kong billionaire Stanley Ho not only sets new standards in an optical sense. Significant attention also was given to technical quality. It is the first building in China to use the Hilti HAC anchor channel. The silhouette of the highly modern building, were in place. Hilti was successful as the HAC, located in Shanghai’s Hongqiao district, quickly one of the company’s most significant innovations gained form when the German façade specialist in recent years, was selected to fasten the curtain Gartner began constructing a three-dimensional wall façade. curtain wall façade. Some 140,000 square meters of office and commercial space are being conAnthony Bai, a Project Manager with Gartner, structed, packed in modern steel and glass. The doesn’t regret the decision to go with Hilti. The 28-story building is being built by the Moët Hengroundbreaking V shape of the HAC directs occurnessy Louis Vuitton group (LVMH) and Hong Kong ring loads into the concrete particularly well, therereal estate magnate Stanley Ho. The investors are by increasing the ability to take up greater shear creating a fashionable address for luxury brands. loads close to edges. This not only reduces Gartner’s material costs, but also simplifies planning In late 2010, as Gartner Shanghai was considering work. “The ease of positioning the Hilti anchor options to attach the curtain wall brackets to the channels is better than anything we have seen concrete structure, Hilti China approached the until now,” says Bai. company to discuss Hilti’s newly launched HAC anchor channel product. Thus began an intense By the time construction is finished in the second period of calculations, clarifications and detailed half of 2012, some 4,000 Hilti HAC anchor chantechnical discussions between Gartner and Hilti in nels will have been used in “L’Avenue”. Then the Germany, Liechtenstein and China. As Gartner encomplex will be ready to host the world’s luxury gineers were using HAC for the first time, the burbrands. Construction workers soon will pack up den of proof was on Hilti. Product Manager Helen their toolboxes and head home, making way for Xue and her internationally based colleagues had the logos and monogrammed bags and clothes of to prove that all loads were accounted for, all apLouis Vuitton and others. provals had been obtained and all certifications 27 One also has to gain an in-depth look. Matthias Gillner, Executive Board Member: “Hilti stands for the power of innovation. We continually invest in research and development, even in difficult economic times. Our new products meet the continuous rise in customer demands, even those based on the harshest operating conditions.” 28 Research and development 2011 Hilti Company Report An extensive innovation for structural analysis entered the market with the launch of the new Hilti X-Scan PS 1000 detection system. An interdisciplinary development team from Hilti’s Measuring Systems Business Unit created a precision tool that looks inside concrete construction. 29 30 Research and development 2011 Hilti Company Report An “X-ray” through concrete. The Hilti X-Scan PS 1000 detection system looks inside concrete construction. It allows the user to precisely locate rebars, pipes or cable channels, minimizing the risk of damage when drilling. Three questions for Sascha Mr. Korl, what goes into real Hilti innovation? Korl, head of a team of experts Real Hilti innovation is not merely satisfying the customer, but and Technical Project Manager enthusing them! This begins with a construction site analysis, when for the development of the we attempt to understand the customer’s needs. It ends with solunew Hilti X-Scan PS 1000 at tions that provide the customer with true added value. Hilti’s Measuring Systems Business Unit. What drove the team in developing the new detection system? The immediate sense of enthusiasm we saw when we initially showed the customer the X-Scan PS 1000. All of a sudden there were pipes and cables that were not previously visible. That’s when we knew that we were on the right track. Why are detection systems playing an increasingly significant role in building analysis? New buildings and their architecture are more complex. More older buildings also are being examined. Detection systems help to avoid damage to pipes and they also increase safety for construction workers when they carry out drilling work. 31 We have to reinvent ourselves on a daily basis. The claim of tirelessly searching for new products and solutions has been part of Hilti since the beginning. Hilti is treading new technological ground with the X-Scan PS 1000 detection system, which specializes in the non-destructive examination of concrete structures. Sascha Korl quickly moves across the wall of a plinary team member responsible for the scancellar in Hilti’s technical center with a laptop-sized ner’s electronics. Thanks to radar technology it is tool. In 30 seconds he has scanned a section of possible to see other objects located behind the wall, covered with a paper grid, with the new rebars in buildings with complex designs. X-Scan PS 1000. Korl follows the horizontal and vertical lines and traces shown on the grid. “Our The question of how to precisely locate cable new technology, which includes three antennas channels or rebars buried in concrete, and to avoid that are integrated in the scanner, allows us to costly and time-consuming drilling errors, has scan to a depth of 30 centimeters relatively been a concern of both Hilti developers and cusquickly,” adds Dietmar Schönbeck, the interdiscitomers. The damage associated with drilling into 32 Research and development 2011 Hilti Company Report hidden objects can be very serious and is associconverted into images, and it is easy to identify ated with high costs. There also is a significant objects concealed beneath the concrete. Rebars, safety risk if a tensioning cable in bridge or deck water pipes and cable channels are clearly visible construction is hit. The user could be severely to the viewer. Now the user can decide where to injured by the uncontrolled release of a tensioning drill. A new feature is a three-dimensional image, cable. A solution had to be found that would allow which appears on a monitor. This makes structural an anchor to be precisely positioned and set in the analysis and evaluation simpler, as confirmed by thick concrete wall of an atomic power plant. many customers in various field tests. “It’s never been easier to identify and localize individual “This is no standard product; it is cutting-edge objects.” Customers do not explicitly note the technology,” comments Schönbeck. A team of tool’s complex technology. Thanks to the simple highly specialized employees, including physicists operating concept and the clear visual presentaand high-frequency electronics technicians and tion of results, the operator needs no particular mechanics, were involved in the detector’s develspecialized know-how and can use the tool after opment. All of the tool’s components are based completing a brief training session. on Hilti research and development. One quickly notices the fascination development team memThe development project will not end for the team bers have for the project. “We were motivated to with the X-Scan PS 1000’s introduction. “We’re develop something completely new,” says Patrick not running out of ideas and we already have Haldner, Software Development Project Manager. started work on a subsequent project,” says Sascha Korl. While he won’t reveal what is involved, The X-Scan PS 1000 is truly a high-tech tool. it is certain to once again be based on generating Measuring data is collected in intervals of bilcustomer enthusiasm. lionths of seconds. The signals are immediately 33 Frank Iaccino, Hilti Account Manager in Toronto, ventured a new start in more ways than one. He simultaneously changed sales areas and trade segments and launched a new career in doing so. Responsibility for people and the company. Jörg Kampmeyer, Executive Board Member: “Entrepreneurial success is deeply linked to the leadership and development of team members. Hilti offers every employee the opportunity to grow and to personally discover new horizons.” 34 Team members 2011 Hilti Company Report 35 36 Team members 2011 Hilti Company Report An incentive and motivation to become even better. The ongoing development of employees is a firm component of Hilti’s corporate management. For the first time, Hilti ranked 15th in the benchmark study of the world’s best multinational workplaces conducted by the Great Place to Work® Institute. This places Hilti among the best multinational employers and in the same league as firms such as Microsoft, Google and 3M. Three questions for Mr. Risch, the study looked into workplace culture and studied Klaus Risch, Head of Global the attractiveness of an employer using employee surveys. What Human Resources for the Hilti significance does this recognition have for you? Group. We were very happy to receive this independent recognition, particularly because it was for a topic that is close to the heart of the company: being a great place to work for our employees. It also is a renewed incentive and motivation to continue to consistently follow the course to become even better. This is an ongoing task for us. What are the pillars of employee development? People and the development of their talents and aptitude are a primary focus at Hilti. Managers and human resources are not the only ones responsible for employee development. Employees also have a great deal of responsibility for their own progress and growth. What possibilities for growth do employees have at Hilti? Hilti is an ideal employer for anyone who wants to accept responsibility and grow professionally. We grant people a great deal of flexibility and encourage them to leave the circle of habits, to collect new experiences and to grow as they do. Hilti provides a solid framework for this and a wealth of opportunities, such as training possibilities, moving into a new function or working in a different country and culture. 37 Having the chance to grow with the company. When talking with Frank Iaccino, it’s impossible not to feel the passion he has for his job. The Canadian with Italian heritage recently took the courageous step of changing careers, albeit in the same company and with the blessing of his boss. 38 Team members 2011 Hilti Company Report Frank Iaccino is one of eight account managers in to take this step and start from scratch. Today he’s Toronto. He and the entire building and construchappy that he made the transition, even though it tion team are responsible for industrial construction wasn’t easy at the outset. in the smallest, yet most central territory in the city that borders Lake Ontario. Small, however, only “Everyone supported me. My colleagues, my new refers to the geographical area as his territory has team, my boss and my family. Initially I didn’t know more construction sites than any other in Canada. where and how to begin. Everything was new. My The growth appears to be unlimited and new skytrade segment, my customers, my territory and my scrapers appear every 500 meters. There are so team. I was very impatient with myself and wanted many that it’s difficult to figure out which constructo do everything correctly from the get-go, but I tion site the many crane jibs are moving towards. had too many things going at the same time. My Hotels, offices, apartment buildings – Canada’s boss helped me to learn to take it one step at a largest city appears to be bursting at the seams. time, not to be discouraged and to see every new experience as an important one,” says Iaccino. This is good news for Iaccino and his team. Their The most difficult thing for him was giving up the order books are full and the team members are customer relationships he had built up over years. always greeted enthusiastically on construction “They were like a part of my family and I almost felt sites. But it wasn’t always this way. The 40-year-old like I was letting them down. But my successor did has only recently taken over responsibility for the a great job and that relieved my apprehensions.” sales territory in the heart of Toronto, switching not only the area where he worked previously, but also The only thing Iaccino couldn’t give up was his the trade segment. Until recently Iaccino was one “personal neighborhood.” This is where he grew of the residential construction specialists on the up, where he still lives with his family and where he Canadian team, and there were very few construchas been known as the Hilti guy for decades. Peotion and renovation projects that didn’t require his ple recognize and trust him. They go to him when advice or expertise. He also was a committed they have questions about construction. His boss member of all relevant associations and boards. and his successor both understood and didn’t take “I had nothing to do with industrial construction. long to create a small island of territory for which I didn’t know anyone and the people there didn’t he is still responsible. know me either,” says Iaccino. His red Hilti pickup is still a popular place to meet One day his boss came to him, certain that Frank on the street where he lives. People stop by to talk had the potential to delve into a new segment and shop and chat. For Iaccino this is always a pleatake on a higher position. “It’s fantastic when the sure, just like his everyday job. Even if it gets late or company you work for trusts you to develop pertakes place on Sunday. “It’s very satisfying and sonally and professionally. They could have left me prideful when people need your help and you can where I was. The customers were happy and I was place products in their hands that almost always happy and everything was running smoothly,” exelicit a ‘wow’ in response,” he laughs. That’s when plains Iaccino. But Hilti gave him the opportunity one senses the great passion for what he does. to do more, and the father of two had the courage 39 The Executive Board. Bo Risberg Jörg Kampmeyer Chief Executive Officer Vaduz, Principality of Liechtenstein Wollerau, Switzerland Jörg Kampmeyer (born 1968, Germany) has been Bo Risberg (born 1956, Sweden) has been CEO a Member of the Executive Board since April since January 1, 2007. He trained as a mechani2011. He is responsible for the Finance, Human cal engineer at Queen’s University in Canada Resources, IT and Corporate Development units. and then acquired an MBA at IMD in Lausanne, Jörg Kampmeyer studied mechanical engineering Switzerland. From 1981 to 1995 he worked in and economics at RWTH Aachen University after various positions with the ABB Group before which he worked as a management consultant. working for a consulting firm between 1995 and He began his Hilti career in 2002 as the Head of 1999. He joined Hilti in 1999 as Head of the DrillCorporate Development in Schaan. From 2003 to ing and Demolition Business Unit. From 2001 to 2005 he was responsible for the company’s world2006, as a Member of the Executive Board, he wide marketing activities before heading the Gerwas responsible for the Business Areas, the man market organization in 2006 and, as of 2010, Supply Chain comprising production, sourcing the Market Region Central Europe. and logistics and New Business & Technology. Bo Risberg is a Member of the Board of Directors of Trelleborg AB, Sweden, Grundfos Holding A/S, Denmark, and IMD, Switzerland. Matthias Gillner Dr. Christoph Loos Grabs, Switzerland Schaan, Principality of Liechtenstein Matthias Gillner (born 1967, Germany) has been Christoph Loos (born 1968, Germany) has been a a Member of the Executive Board since April Member of the Executive Board since 2007. He is 2011. He is responsible for the Electric Tools & responsible for the Emerging Markets and Energy Accessories, Corporate Research & Technology & Industry units. Subsequent to training as a bankand Global Tool Service units. Matthias Gillner er, he completed studies in business administrastudied chemical engineering at Friedrich-Alextion with a doctorate from the University of St. Galander University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germalen. He then worked as a management consultant ny. He was then employed by a consulting comin Germany and China. Upon joining Hilti in 2001, pany from 1993 to 2000. During this time he he first led the Corporate Development team, after acquired an MBA at INSEAD in Fontainebleau, which he established the Strategic Marketing unit. France. He began his Hilti career in 2000 as the At the end of 2003 he moved to Germany, first as a Head of Corporate Development. After leading Regional Sales Director and then as General ManCorporate HR he was named Head of the Meaager of Hilti Germany. suring Systems Business Unit in 2003. From 2006 to 2011 Matthias Gillner was Head of the Electric Tools & Accessories Business Area. Matthias Gillner is Member of the Board of the European Power Tool Association (EPTA). 40 Executive Board 2011 Hilti Company Report The Executive Board (from left): Stefan Nöken, Marco Meyrat, Christoph Loos, Bo Risberg, Matthias Gillner and Jörg Kampmeyer on the occasion of their visit to the Hilti Development Corporation in Kaufering, Germany. Marco Meyrat Dr. Stefan Nöken Chur, Switzerland Mörschwil, Switzerland Marco Meyrat (born 1963, Switzerland) has been Stefan Nöken (born 1965, Germany) has been on a Member of the Executive Board since the bethe Executive Board since the beginning of 2007. ginning of 2005. He is responsible for the marHe is responsible for the Fastening & Protection, kets in Europe and North America. With a busiGlobal Logistics, Global Manufacturing and Corness degree from the University of St. Gallen, he porate Intellectual Property units. Following studbegan his career in 1989 as Product Manager at ies in mechanical engineering at Aachen UniversiHilti Headquarters in Schaan. After holding varity, where he earned a doctorate, he was employed ous positions in Hilti France and Hilti Germany, at the Fraunhofer Institute for Production Technolhe was named Head of Hilti Switzerland in 1999 ogy in Aachen, Germany. In 2000 he joined Hilti as and was subsequently appointed General Manthe Head of Corporate Engineering. In 2004 he ager of Hilti Germany in 2002. Marco Meyrat is was appointed Head of Supply Chain ManageChairman of the Board of Directors of OLMeRO ment. Stefan Nöken is a Member of the Board of AG, Glattbrugg, Switzerland. Trustees of the Fraunhofer Institute for Production Technology in Aachen and Vice President of Unitech International, the network of Europe’s leading technical universities. 41 The Board of Directors. Prof. Dr. Pius Baschera again elected to serve on the Board of Directors of Chairman of the Board of Directors the Hilti Corporation. Giorgio Behr is a Member of Zurich, Switzerland the Supervisory Board of ZF Friedrichshafen AG. Pius Baschera (born 1950; re-elected to serve until He gained his doctorate at the law school of the the 2013 Annual General Meeting) is Chairman of University of Zurich, was admitted to the bar and the Board of Directors. He studied mechanical enobtained a diploma as a Certified Public Accoungineering and business administration at the Swiss tant. Today he is an entrepreneur in the industrial Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, where he sector (Behr Bircher Cellpack BBC Group). earned his doctorate. In 1979 he came to Hilti as Head of Financial Controlling in the production Kim Fausing area. Before being named Chairman, he served as Sonderborg, Denmark CEO for 13 years. He is currently a Member of the Kim Fausing (born 1964; elected to serve until the Board of Directors of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., 2013 Annual General Meeting) was elected to the Basel, and the Schindler Group, Hergiswil. He also Board of Directors in 2010. He earned a degree in is a Member of the Advisory Boards of Vorwerk & mechanical engineering at Aarhus Teknikum, in Co., Wuppertal, and Ardex GmbH, Witten, ChairDenmark, in 1987, and an MBA degree at Henley man of the Board of Directors of Venture Incubator Management School, in London, in 1996. His proAG, Zug, and a Professor of Corporate Managefessional career led him to the Hilti Group in 1990, ment at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology where he served in various management functions Zurich. in Europe and Asia until 2007. After moving to the Danish Danfoss Group, he was named Chief OperMichael Hilti ating Officer and Member of the company’s execuSchaan, Principality of Liechtenstein tive committee in January 2008. He also is a Michael Hilti (born 1946; re-elected to serve until Director of Sauer-Danfoss Inc., USA, Danfoss Turthe 2012 Annual General Meeting), son of combocor Compressors, Inc., in Tallahassee, Florida pany founder Professor Martin Hilti, has been a (USA), and the Velux Group in Copenhagen. Member of the Board of Directors since 1990. After studying business administration at the UniverHeinrich Fischer sity of St. Gallen he worked in banking in London Rüschlikon, Switzerland before joining Hilti in 1974 as the Deputy Head of Heinrich Fischer (born 1950; re-elected until the Marketing. Two years later he was named to the 2013 Annual General Meeting) has been a Member company’s Executive Board and he served as of the Board of Directors since 2007. He graduCEO from 1990 to 1993. He was Chairman of the ated in 1973 with an engineering diploma from the Board of Directors from 1994 to 2006. Michael Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, havHilti is a Trustee of the Martin Hilti Family Trust ing studied electrical engineering and technical and President of the Board of the Hilti Foundation. physics. He then went on to study business administration at the University of Zurich while workProf. Dr. Giorgio Behr ing in this field, earning a master’s degree in 1976. Buchberg, Switzerland Beginning in 1977 he held senior management poGiorgio Behr (born 1948; re-elected to serve until sitions at Oerlikon Bührle Holding, Balzers AG the 2012 Annual General Meeting), Honorary Pro(1980 to 1989), and finally at Oerlikon Holding fessor at the University of St. Gallen, was previonce again (1990 to 1995). From 1996 to 2007 he ously a Member of the Board of Directors of the was Chief Executive Officer at Saurer AG, Arbon. Hilti Corporation between 1993 and 2007. Since Heinrich Fischer is a Member of the Board of DiJanuary 2008 he has been a Trustee of the Martin rectors at Schweiter AG, Tecan AG, Fortu AG and Hilti Family Trust and in January 2009 he was Sensirion AG. 42 Board of Directors 2011 Hilti Company Report The Board of Directors (from left): Michael Jacobi, Michael Hilti, Pius Baschera, Tis Prager, Giorgio Behr, Heinrich Fischer and Kim Fausing on a trip to the Eastern Europe Region, where they visited the Hilti Center in Prague as well as other locations. Dr. Michael Jacobi Dr. Tis Prager Binningen, Switzerland Zumikon, Switzerland Michael Jacobi (born 1953; re-elected until the Tis Prager (born 1948; re-elected until the 2013 2013 Annual General Meeting) was elected to the Annual General Meeting) has been a Member of Board of Directors in 2007. He studied business the Board of Directors since June 1, 2006. He economics at the University of St. Gallen and at earned a doctorate in law from the University of the University of Washington, Seattle, and earned Zurich in 1975, was admitted to the bar of the his doctorate from St. Gallen in 1979. From 1978 Canton of Zurich in 1978 and is a founding memuntil 2007 he held various management positions ber of the Prager Dreifuss law firm in Zurich and in the financial area of Ciba Geigy AG and later in Bern. Among other mandates, Tis Prager is the Ciba Specialty Chemicals Inc., Basel. He was Chairman of the Board of the IE Engineering Group Global Chief Financial Officer from 1996 until 2007. AG, Zurich, Hotel Zurich AG (Marriott), Caprez InToday Michael Jacobi is an independent corporate genieure AG, Zurich, and Scherer & Bühler AG, consultant. Since 2003 he has been a Member of Meggen. He also is a Member of the Board of Dithe Board of Directors of Sonova Holding AG, rectors of Bourquin SA, Couvet, and is active in Stäfa, and since December 2008 a Trustee of the STEP, the Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners. Martin Hilti Family Trust. He was named to the Board of Directors of Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Allschwil, in 2009. 43 44 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety Corporate responsibility 2011 Hilti Company Report Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance 46 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety Corporate responsibility 2011 Hilti Company Report Hilti’s business activities have local, national and As part of corporate social responsibility, the global influence on society, employees, the enviHilti Foundation and the Hilti Group jointly support ronment and the economy. Accepting responsibiliprojects in the areas of affordable housing, comty for this influence is a matter of course for Hilti munity development, culture, disaster relief, eduand at the heart of the corporate philosophy. Hilti cation and social entrepreneurship. All of these focuses on transparency, ethics and respect tocommitments are based on the goal of helping wards all stakeholders, underscoring this accountpeople towards a dignified, sustainable and indeability by separating corporate responsibility into pendent life while reducing the gaps and divisions five segments: team members, user health and within society. safety, corporate social responsibility, the environment and compliance. The construction industry is responsible for a significant amount of the world’s CO2 emissions. To The company creates an environment – a great help maintain the environment for future generaplace to work – for team members in which they tions, Hilti has commitments at both product and enjoy a sense of well-being, can grow personally corporate levels. Hilti’s production facility in Ausand can fully develop their potential. True to the tria, for example, is a pioneer in environmentally company values of integrity, courage, teamwork friendly construction. Eighty percent of the energy and commitment, the Hilti Group invests in its emused at this Hilti plant is taken from renewable reployees, creating perspectives that make customsources. Hilti customers benefit from energy-effiized development and long-term worldwide career cient tools that enjoy a long life and are made with planning possible for everyone. a significant amount of recyclable materials. Hilti also offers products in the areas of green building There are few professions as dangerous as that of and solar, water and wind power and has supporta construction worker. Thousands of accidents oced the UN’s Caring for Climate initiative since 2007. cur every year on construction sites throughout Europe. User health and safety is therefore a The compliance standards apply to all Hilti emconstant topic of interest. Hilti competence cenployees, suppliers and partners worldwide. The obters for ergonomics and reduction of dust, noise ligation to observe legal and ethical rules, particuand vibration continue to develop new technololarly those for anticorruption, fair competition and gies aimed at protecting the user. This enhances the protection of data, is integrated in the compajobsite safety and reduces the danger of injury and ny’s Code of Conduct. Hilti has a strict zero-tolerresulting work interruptions. Viewed together, ance policy for bribery and corruption in all of its these efforts make the construction site a safer business activities worldwide. Hilti’s participation place. in the UN Global Compact and in the Partnering against Corruption Initiative demonstrates its determination to counter corruption and to support and maintain social and ecological standards. &RPSOLDQFH (QWKXVLQJ 2눧HULQJVROXWLRQV &RQWULEXWLQJWR $FWLYHO\PDQDJLQJ (QVXULQJFRPSOLDQFH  HPSOR\HHVIRU IRUDGGHGVDIHW\ VXVWDLQDEOHVRFLDO WKHH눧HFWVRQWKH ZLWKVWDWXWRU\DQG +LOWLDQGFRQWULE DQGSURGXFWLYLW\ GHYHORSPHQW HQYLURQPHQW HWKLFDOVWDQGDUGV  XWLQJWRWKHLU WRRXUFXVWRPHUV GHYHORSPHQW Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance At the forefront of international competition. Being at the front is not merely a goal for veteran Hilti employees. Newer employees also are encouraged to achieve top technical results. Manufacturing specialist Sandro Ospelt showed off his talents last year at the WorldSkills professional championships in London, winning a bronze medal in the CNC milling category. The WorldSkills 2011 event hosted some 1,000 The strenuous training completed in advance of young people from 51 countries, competing the competition by the CNC milling specialist and against each other in 46 separate skills categohis vocational trainer, Reto Blumenthal, paid off in ries. Approximately 200,000 visitors watched the the end as the young man from Liechtenstein outsemiannual competition, among them U.K. Prime paced all but a few of the international competiMinister David Cameron who gamely followed the tors. “The medal means a great deal to me. It aspiring specialists. shows that I can keep up with anyone from anywhere,” said a happy Sandro Ospelt. The gold These included Liechtenstein’s Sandro Ospelt. He medal was shared by representatives from Japan concluded his polymechanic apprenticeship with and South Korea. Hilti in 2010 and is now a manufacturing specialist at Hilti’s production facility in Schaan. Sandro Ospelt’s third place ratifies the high quality of Hilti’s vocational training. “Once they conclude At WorldSkills the 21-year-old completed three test their apprenticeship our trainees are highly covmodules over a period of 18 hours. The modules, eted professional specialists,” adds Remo Kluser, to manufacture aluminum and steel parts, included Head of Vocational Training at Hilti. “This is why all the necessary work steps from programming a we want to give them various perspectives and computer to finishing the work on the CNC milling possibilities that make a career with our company machine. an attractive option.” 48 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety Team members 2011 Hilti Company Report The company within the company. During the third year of their apprenticeship training, Hilti Corporation trainees based at headquarters in Schaan, Liechtenstein, operate their own company over a six-month period. They learn a great deal about company management and collect experiences that will be valuable to them later in their careers. Over the last year the team members of Hilti’s “All and a renewed upturn in business. The learning In” junior enterprise have displayed a significant experience was a great one and the company also amount of entrepreneurial spirit. The 28 apprenbooked a positive financial result, generating a tices, including commercial and IT specialists, five-digit net profit. “All In” General Manager Derpolymechanics and logisticians, have developed mot Allen knows the secret of the company’s sucan innovative product portfolio that has generated cess: “It’s due to our cohesiveness, our team spirit solid results. The primary customers were employand the constructive way we managed the crisis. ees based at Hilti headquarters who purchased We always focused on the positive aspects, even creative garden decorations, bottle openers and when it was difficult to do so.” raclette grills, among other items. The young entrepreneurs ran their company under actual condiHilti gives the managers of tomorrow a compretions with real cash flow and movement of goods. hensive education that includes social, systematic and technical focus. The junior enterprise is a sigAs with any company, the junior enterprise undernificant cornerstone of the vocational training conwent various phases during its six-month lifecycle. cept. “Entrepreneurial thought is developed by The company created a business plan, was offihaving the apprentices complete practical tasks. cially founded, experienced initial success and But initiative and independence also are stimueven survived a crisis in January when it had no inlated by giving the young people the responsibility ventory of products and required new ideas. This to make their own decisions,” adds Remo Kluser, was followed by successful change management Head of Vocational Training at Hilti. Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance Safely through the mountain. It is currently the largest construction project in Switzerland. The construction of the New Railway Link through the Alps (NRLA) creates a fast and efficient railway connection through the Swiss Alps for the transport of both passengers and freight. Hilti is delivering on-site support to customers in the form of comprehensive advice and consulting while also providing user training to ensure the safe handling and usage of Hilti tools. The centerpieces of the NRLA project are the A total of 5,500 people are working along the Gotthard and Ceneri Base Tunnels. The Gotthard entire tunnel route. In addition to the strict safety Base Tunnel is 57 kilometers long, making it the regulations governing work in the tunnel, ensuring longest tunnel in the world. If one adds together user safety when handling and operating tools is a both main tunnel bores and all the tunneling work high priority. The workers are constantly subject to done for the cross-passages, access tunnels and high temperatures, dust, noise and vibrations. To shafts, the total length of the tunnel system is help reduce the impact of these factors, Hilti more than 152 kilometers. After some 11 years of Account Manager Gregorio Vincenzino advises construction, the initial final breakthrough took customers on the jobsite and provides them with place in mid-October 2010. The Ceneri Base Tunthe most suitable tool for the various applications. nel also is an impressive construction project with “The Hilti TE 80 combihammer, for example, uses its two 15-kilometer-long bores. AlpTransit GotActive Vibration Reduction (AVR), which limits thard AG is responsible for construction. vibration intensity and is much less tiring to work 50 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety User health and safety 2011 Hilti Company Report with,” explains Vincenzino. A mass damper system Alpiq Burkhalter Bahntechnik AG, the company absorbs vibrations along the tool’s longitudinal responsible for part of the technical railway infraaxis. The grip also is decoupled from the rest of structure and another Hilti customer, also profits the tool, helping to reduce vibrational torque. Elecfrom Hilti’s consulting services. Vincenzino protronic Active Torque Control (ATC) affords the user vides the company with lightweight cordless drill/ additional safety in the event of the drill bit becomdrivers to complete what can be tiring overhead ing stuck. The Hilti Account Manager also had a work. This greatly simplifies installation work. ready solution to reduce dust levels when drilling: “In advance of the actual construction work we the Hilti Dust Removal System (DRS) allows for looked at many tools from different manufacturers practically dust-free work when used together with together with our people. We also tried them out in Hilti rotary hammers, combihammers and mediuma test gallery. One hundred percent of our installand heavy-duty breakers. ers said that they wanted to work with the Hilti products. Other firms may be able to deliver good In user training sessions, Vincenzino also familiartools, but the additional expert advice and service izes workers with the tools and the correct protecone gets with Hilti is unique,” says Beat Klossner, tive clothing and equipment. The iron safety nets South Section Manager with Alpiq Burkhalter fastened to the walls and decks of the Ceneri Base Bahntechnik AG. Tunnel are fastened with Hilti nails by the ItalianSwiss joint venture Consorzio Condotte Cossi. The The Gotthard Base Tunnel is scheduled to be nails are driven into the hard base material with the opened at the end of 2016, the Ceneri Base TunHilti DX 460 powder-actuated fastening tool. nel at the end of 2019. When finished, trains will “I provide comprehensive safety training to each travel at top speeds of up to 250 kilometers per worker before they begin using the tool. The powhour on the high-speed rail line. der-actuated fastening tools are in use all day long. It’s therefore important to be on-site,” adds the experienced Account Manager, who has worked for Hilti for more than 20 years. Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance The window to the world. Fatima is 27 years old. Together with her parents and two siblings she lives in an apartment that has 50 square meters of area in a poor section of Cairo. Making her way to work at seven each morning, she travels to El Nafeza, a center for manufac­turing handmade paper. 52 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety Corporate social responsibility 2011 Hilti Company Report El Nafeza, also known as “the window to the into paper. During the cooking stage she discusses world,” was founded by the Egyptian artist Mothe workday with her colleagues and also uses sign hamed Abou El Naga. He was inspired to create language as eight of the ten women and youths are this center after traveling during his education. “In deaf and unable to speak. Often isolated socially, it Japan I saw that the production of handmade pais nearly impossible for them to find work, and esper products not only created jobs and generated tablish an existence, outside El Nafeza. The idea to income for untrained workers, but that it could retrain the deaf at El Nafeza was made possible in invigorate entire communities. I decided to implecooperation with Tamer Bahaa, another Egyptian ment this concept in Egypt.” entrepreneur. Contact was established through the Hilti Foundation and Ashoka. The Hilti Foundation and its partner organization Ashoka supported him in realizing his idea. “We In the afternoons Fatima and her colleagues reguadvised Mohamed Abou El Naga and provided him larly conduct courses for children and young peowith entrepreneurial knowledge and financial supple from poor villages surrounding Cairo. The idea port, making it possible for him to have access to is to show the children that they can influence their a worldwide network of contacts in the social seclives with their own hands. tor,” says Egbert Appel, Managing Director of the Hilti Foundation. Fatima is satisfied when she closes the doors of El Nafeza at 4:30 p.m. She loves her work and is Since 2005 women, young people and the disproud to earn her own money. The roughly 700 abled have learned how to make handmade paper Egyptian pounds (about 105 Swiss francs) she in El Nafeza and how to create artfully designed earns per month is more than the 500-pound paper products such as gift boxes, book covers average monthly income of an Egyptian worker. and cards. They use only agricultural waste, such as rice straw or banana bushes, in the production. The money allows Fatima to support her family El Nafeza is a good example of an innovative projand save a small amount. She hopes that her savect that combines entrepreneurial activity and susings will be enough to help realize her dream of tainability. Creating new jobs is just as important in one day opening her own paper manufacturing Egypt as environmental protection and the presercenter. Fatima wants to pass on her knowledge vation of traditional paper-making methods. and to train as many women and young people as possible. This corresponds exactly to the Hilti Fatima is the first to arrive at El Nafeza – she opens Foundation’s long-term approach in the area of sothe window to the world. Her morning rounds take cial entrepreneurship. The Foundation supports her to a water basin where she placed rice straw to business models that can be copied and replisoak the previous day. She removes the saturated cated. The positive effect of such projects exrice straw from the water and heats it in a pale. The pands again and again, giving more people the straw is boiled for two hours, after which it is ability to shape their own life and destiny. worked into a paste and dried before being turned Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance A rating of “attractiveness and sustainability.” The pulsating finance and cultural metropolis of London is scheduled to gain another luxury hotel in 2012, just in time for the Summer Olympic Games. In addition to quality, the building’s owners also place a great deal of significance on sustainability and ecological aspects. 54 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety Environment 2011 Hilti Company Report Knightsbridge, in the heart of London, is one of the city’s most prestigious districts. Luxury brands such as Gucci, Chanel and Louis Vuitton can be found on the most popular promenades. This was the location that the Italian luxury group Bulgari selected for its latest Bulgari Hotels & Resorts project. Construction began in 2010 and the fivestar Bulgari Hotel & Residences is scheduled to open in May 2012. The design is extravagant, the style timeless and the material selected is only the best. Silver dominates the interior design in homage to the founder of Bulgari, the silversmith Sotirio Bulgari. Star architect Antonio Citterio selected Portland stone and bronze materials so that the building would fit neatly into the existing cityscape. The glamorous appearance is based on a concept Neil McGurk of Briggs & Forrester is responsible of sustainability. The Bulgari Hotel & Residences for the project’s electrical installation. To help with were built according to the highest ecological the installation he contacted Hilti expert Jon Gamstandards. There were no compromises made midge, Central London Account Manager. Gamregarding the building’s CO2 footprint, and no midge recommended Hilti’s new MM channel instone was left unturned in attempts to minimize stallation system, designed for lightand mediumthe influence on the environment. This uncomproduty loads, for the ventilation channels and cable mising claim was honored in 2010 when the projtrays. The mobile MQ channel installation system ect was given the U.K. Property Award in the “Best was used with heavy-duty pipe installation, and Hotel” and “Best Development” categories. the MM push-button system also enables simple, time-saving installation. The intelligent design sigThe developer of the property, Prime Developnificantly reduces the required amount of steel as ment, paid strict attention to green building criteria well as the weight of channels without diminishing when selecting partners for the project. A building durability. This is a unique solution feature. Comearns the green building designation when it is pared to common systems, 9.96 tons of steel were planned, built and operated in an environmentally saved in the electrical installation alone. This is a compatible manner, using less energy, water and significant plus in the eyes of the BREEAM materials while reducing CO2 emissions and operevaluation. ating costs. Gammidge also calculated the CO2 footprint of the Hilti is acutely aware of customers’ green building Hilti system – the amount of CO2 produced by the requirements and offers a range of products and channels during their lifetime from gaining the raw services that help meet the worldwide criteria for materials though production, transport, assembly ecological construction such as the BRE Environand eventual disposal. The Hilti Account Manager mental Assessment Method, or BREEAM. BREEAM calculated an impressive reduction in CO2 emisis one of the leading providers of building certificasions of 29 tons, or 49 percent, compared to comtion standards and has become a benchmark for mon solutions. Neil McGurk was sold: “Sustaindescribing the influence a building has on the ability aspects are becoming increasingly imporenvironment. tant in construction projects. As contractors, it’s central that we make an effective contribution to With the aim of achieving a BREEAM certification our customers’ ecological targets if we are to reof excellent, the Bulgari Hotel & Residences is the main competitive.” first building in the United Kingdom that deploys ground-source heat pumps, which reduce CO2 The Bulgari Hotel & Residences is well on the way emissions when heating and cooling. Time-saving to being awarded BREEAM’s excellent rating. installation, quality, resource and cost efficiency Thanks to its glamour, style and class, it also will also were a focus to enhance mechanical and leave a sustainable impression with guests in more electrical installation aspects. ways than one. Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance Honesty is the best policy. A sustainable fight against corruption is only possible if all market forces work together and are committed to maintaining compliance standards. The International Business Leaders Forum is committed to this goal and is supported in its efforts by Hilti Russia. Key phrases such as anticorruption, corporate The secondment of an employee by a member governance and business ethics are part of Vera company is unique in the history of the IBLF. “By Cherepanova’s daily work. She is an Internal Audit placing Vera directly with the IBLF we are able to and Financial Investigation Manager with Hilti Rusmove our program of promoting responsible busisia. For the past year she also has spent about 50 ness standards in Russia to a new level by making percent of her time working on behalf of the Interworkshops, information material and common acnational Business Leaders Forum (IBLF), a nontion programs accessible to a new generation of profit organization that works together with leading Russian managers,” says Brook Horowitz. Vera international corporations to promote sustainable Cherepanova’s professionalism and efforts in the and ethical business practices around the world. fight against corruption are not going unnoticed. In 2011 the International Compliance Association Cherepanova works in a five-person team of comnamed her best compliance manager in the area of pliance experts, all of whom come from the fields anticorruption in Russia and the Commonwealth of of finance and academia. Under the leadership of Independent States. Brook Horowitz, the manager of IBLF in Russia, they are defining anticorruption measures specific Anticorruption is a global topic. The United States to the Russian market as part of the IBLF’s Imand United Kingdom have the strictest anticorrupproving Business Standards in Russia project. The tion laws in the world. The Hilti Group has based Russian economy has experienced a significant its internal compliance rules on these standards. uptick in recent years and investments in Russia They must be maintained without exception on a are increasingly popular. “In spite of this, problems worldwide basis and extend far beyond the resuch as corruption, murky legal ground and a lack quirements of many national regulations. of transparent administrative structures remain unsolved,” says Cherepanova in describing the diffiHilti is convinced that it is the responsibility of the cult market conditions that plague most Western people in the markets to help shape conditions European companies. that will allow sustainable economic growth 56 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety Compliance 2011 Hilti Company Report through their own business activities. This is parFuture Russian generations and decision-makers ticularly true for those markets that are not yet fully also will be trained to recognize the significance of developed. Hilti is therefore committed to putting compliance standards for the national economy. its own high compliance strategy standards into Vera and her team see a significant potential for inthe markets. “Hilti Russia’s cooperation with the creasing knowledge and sustainably improving the IBLF has sent a corresponding message to parteconomic framework through the training of econners and other market players and also underomists and lawyers. The team organizes workscores the Hilti Group’s companywide compliance shops for students that are led by managers and strategy,” assures Cherepanova. IBLF members and creates training documentation for five Moscow universities. Thanks to the team’s The project is clearly aimed at actively developing efforts, a course in business ethics will be offered business ethics in Russia. One of the things Vera for the first time in Russia, at Moscow’s Mirbis Cherepanova is responsible for is the organization Business School, beginning in September 2012. of roundtable discussions involving managers and “We want to help create a generation that is sensicompliance and legal experts from both Russian tized toward combatting corruption,” emphasizes and foreign companies. This forum is used to exCherepanova. change best practices, to learn from one another and to jointly create approaches for combatting In the future the more people who stand up to corcorruption. “While they cannot define the frameruption in the market, the less compelling the inwork, participants can outline their own business centive to deviate from compliance standards or to conduct. By being jointly committed to the fight engage in bribery or blackmail. Initiatives such as against corruption and showing integrity, reputable those carried out by the IBLF and its members will companies can successfully sensitize authorities decisively contribute to eliminating corruption from towards anticorruption topics,” explains everyday business activity. Cherepanova. Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance Human rights Labor norms Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of the protection of internationally proclaimed human association and the effective recognition of the right to UN Global rights within their sphere of influence; and collective bargaining, as well as Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and human rights abuses. compulsory labor; Compact Principle 5: the abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LA8: Education, training, counseling, prevention and HR6: Operations identified as having significant risk for risk-control programs in place to assist workforce incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribmembers, their families or community members reute to the elimination of child labor. garding serious diseases. HR7: Operations identified as having significant risk for GRI Indicators HR2: Percentage of significant suppliers and contracincidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures tors that have undergone screening on human rights taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or comand actions taken. pulsory labor. • Hilti’s Mission Statement calls for responsible behav• The health circle at Hilti Corporation headquarters in ior toward team members, customers, partners and Liechtenstein provides employees with information suppliers as well as society and the environment. on the topics of health and safety. Regular advisory This is consistently implemented throughout the sessions are held regarding workstation ergonomics. company (pages 44 – 57 and 61). • A company physician, located at corporate head• “Our Culture Journey” (OCJ): The company’s distinct quarters in Liechtenstein, supports employees in culture and the Hilti values continue to be strengthmany health-related questions while also offering eye Activities / Measures 2011 ened and further implemented in corporate culture tests, immunization advice and preventive medical workshops (pages 47, 60). checkups. • “Hilti, a great place to work” is measured both inter• Employees are schooled annually on fundamental nally and externally. Within the company it is gauged safety regulations via an e-learning module. by the Global Employee Opinion Survey, or GEOS, • Fire prevention training was again carried out in 2011 which consistently generates high participation rates for all employees at Hilti headquarters. Some 900 and very positive results (page 60). These results staff members have completed this training. show that Hilti takes its team members seriously and • The Hilti plant in Nersingen-Strass, Germany reinitiates the measures required for a positive working ceived the “Top Health Management Award 2011” environment. The Great Place to Work® Institute carfor its operational health management. The award ries out external assessments. Hilti has taken part in was given by TG LifeConcept in cooperation with the these surveys for three years, often attaining top reBavarian State Ministry for Labor and the Bavarian sults at the national level. In 2011, for example, Hilti Chamber of Industry and Commerce. The Hilti plant ranked 3rd in Liechtenstein/Switzerland and in Singaoffers regular training and activities on the topic of pore; an outstanding 1st place in Australia; 4th in Porhealth, improves work station ergonomics and carries tugal and 16th in Germany. Hilti laid the groundwork out an annual health day that features lectures and for a Europe-wide ranking of 12th place while also finworkshops on nutrition, sport and stress prevention. ishing 15th in the category of the world’s best mul• The goal of “zero occupational accidents” has been tinational workplaces, putting the company solidly established in all plants worldwide. Additionally, all among the best employers globally (page 37). plants record and process standardized dangerous situations (near accidents) on a daily basis. 58 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety Corporate responsibility 2011 Hilti Company Report Environmental protection Combatting corruption Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corrupary approach to environmental challenges; tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN3: Direct energy consumption by primary energy SO4: Actions taken in response to incidents source. of corruption. EN5: Energy saved through environmentally friendly use and increased efficiency. EN7: Initiatives to reduce indirect energy use; savings made. EN8: Total water withdrawal separated by source. EN16: Entire direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN18: Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; results achieved. EN22: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. EN26: Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. • Hilti strongly focuses on reducing the influence its • Monitoring and reinforcing the compliance network by products have on the environment. In 2009 the comnaming local compliance officers. pany began measuring this influence through Life • Revising anticorruption guidelines (Hilti’s internal reguCycle Assessments. All new Hilti tools are analyzed lations on the offering, providing and receiving of doaccording to the Product Carbon Footprint method nations and contributions, such as gifts and hospitality and Hilti has set a goal of reducing the ecological services). footprint of the next generation of its products. Other • Introduction of a new approval form and a new apguidelines and instruments aiming to further reduce proval process for documenting, reporting and moniCO2 emissions have been integrated into the product toring doubtful cases. development process (pages 47 and 62). • Creating a new global Code of Conduct that includes • A new guideline for the company’s fleet of automothe most significant Hilti compliance regulations. biles defines relevant environmental and safety stan• Carrying out workshops for the Group-wide rollout of dards. This includes regional consumption limits that the new anticorruption guidelines and the global Code will lead to significant savings in fuel consumption of Conduct through personal training sessions with (20 percent) over the next six years. Plans also call more than 70 local compliance officers. for replacing established automobile technologies • Testing all external compliance helplines, monitoring (gasoline and diesel) with alternative technologies the helpline system and changing the helpline provider (electric automobiles), (pages 47 and 63). in more than 20 countries. • The topics of energy efficiency and waste and water management, as well as occupational safety and health management, have been defined as central HSE elements for Hilti plants. Clear targets and measures have been defined for all units. These will lead to a significant reduction in Hilti’s ecological footprint. As a result, Hilti has decided to improve energy efficiency by 2 percent per year. Until 2015 this measure will lead to an improvement of 10 percent (pages 47, 62 and 63). Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance Corporate culture. The people at Hilti Based on its highly developed corporate culture, Hilti offers employees outstanding career opportunities in a worldwide group. In 2011, employees invested 24,000 working days in corporate culture workshops. 2011 2010 2009 2008 Number of working days employees have used for 24,000 32,000 18,000 35,000 corporate culture workshops Expenditure for corporate culture workshops (in CHF million) 9.5 10.3 7.6 11.4 Fluctuation 14% 13% 15% 14% Integration success rate* 83% 83% 74% 79% Open management positions filled with internal candidates 81% 85% 85% 80% Number of apprentices worldwide 366 360 341 320 +3% +3% –6.1% +5.5% Employees (at December 31) 21,848 20,305 19,709 20,994 * The integration success rate measures the number of employees who joined Hilti during the past two years and are still employed at the company. Employees exhibit a high level of identification and commitment A survey of Hilti employees worldwide is carried out once a year. In 2011 the participation rate of this Global Employee Opinion Survey (GEOS) was 90%. Favorable Neutral Unfavorable 1% 2% 6% 5% 6% 12% 94% 92% 82% 94% 92% 82% are willing to do are proud to work would recommend Hilti the utmost for Hilti for Hilti as a great place to work 60 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety Corporate responsibility 2011 Hilti Company Report Suppliers. Hilti suppliers sign a Code of Conduct All potential Hilti suppliers must complete a comprehensive which serves as an integral part of the contractual agreeaudit before being considered an official partner of the ment. By signing suppliers are obligated to observe the company. A total of nine areas are monitored in detail. In principles contained in the Code of Conduct. It includes addition to topics such as technology, quality and efficienclear rules for maintaining legal requirements and social cy, the Hilti Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which is based responsibility as well as the obligation to observe a zeroon compliance standards, also plays a significant role. tolerance policy regarding any type of corruption. Each new Hilti supplier must sign the Code of Conduct Suppliers of direct production materials and allied suppliers 2011 2010 Suppliers who have signed the Code of Conduct 100% 100% Share of suppliers audited through the end of 2011 Existing suppliers* 97%* 79%* New potential suppliers 100% 100% Additional share of suppliers* subject to a Code of Conduct compliance audit by an external, accredited partner in addition to undergoing the evaluation audit. 8% 0% Improvement potential was agreed upon with audited suppliers* as appropriate. The implementation of this improvement will be monitored. Suppliers of indirect production materials In 2010 Hilti expanded its Code of Conduct for Suppliers to include the procurement of indirect construction materials. Suppliers of all material groups are therefore obligated to meet the stipulations in the Code of Conduct. Particular attention was paid to suppliers of the material groups of merchandizing, trade fairs, cleaning, catering, building safety, temporary work, transport and logistics. Hilti monitors the maintenance of the Code of Conduct in the critical area of clothing production through neutral external auditors. The regular, contractual application of the Code of Conduct is also a main task of the Chief Compliance Officer and of the Procurement Indirect Materials Unit in 2012. * These suppliers account for over 90% of the procurement volume of direct production materials and related products. Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance Environment-related key data. CO2 emissions of Hilti Group Comments (in t) CO 2 equivalents 2008 2009 2010 2011 Hilti Group CO2 emissions rose 10.9 per120,000 cent in 2011 compared to the previous 100,000 year. The reason for the increase is a shift 80,000 in the energy mix at two Hilti plants in Germany. The new energy mix contains a 60,000 significant increase in energy derived 40,000 from fossil fuels, leading to the increase in 20,000 CO2 emissions. Total energy consump97,853 87,209 87,304 96,807 tion, however, declined over the same peMarket organizations (top 13) Plants riod due to the results of Hilti’s energy efficiency program. CO2 emissions per employee (in t) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Despite the rise in total CO2 emissions by 12 approximately 10.9 percent, and the fact 10 that the number of employees in the field 8 using an automobile again rose in 2011, CO2 emissions per employee rose only 6 3 percent. The two main reasons for this 4 positive trend are energy efficiency proj2 ects implemented at Hilti plants and the 4.78 4.56 4.30 4.43 establishing of Hilti International Car Fleet Guidelines, which call for regional consumption limits, among other measures. Energy consumption in the Hilti plants (in MWh) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy consumption at all Hilti plants fell 120,000 by approximately 4.2 percent in 2011 in 100,000 spite of a significant rise in production 80,000 volume. This was achieved through the implementation of Hilti’s energy efficiency 60,000 program, agreed to in 2010, that calls for 40,000 an annual improvement in energy con20,000 sumption of 2 percent. 78,468 69,634 81,939 78,477 Electricity Gas Oil 62 Corporate responsibility Team members User health and safety Corporate responsibility 2011 Hilti Company Report Fuel consumption in the top 13 Comments market organizations (in million liters) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Although the number of sales employees 30 grew significantly in 2011, the consump25 tion of diesel and gasoline rose only mar20 ginally in the Hilti Group’s 13 largest market organizations. This was achieved, 15 among other measures, by using low10 consumption vehicles. Some two-thirds 5 of all Hilti employees worldwide work in 19,070 18,902 18,937 19,113 sales, a fact that has a direct influence on Diesel Gasoline fuel consumption. Water consumption (in m 3) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Water consumption is directly linked to 300,000 production volume. As production volume 250,000 rose significantly in 2011 water consump200,000 tion was correspondingly higher. 150,000 100,000 50,000 200,412 124,825 140,836 164,256 Total waste production (in t) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Waste production increased by approxi12,000 mately 2.6 percent in 2011. This slight in10,000 crease is also linked to the increase in 8,000 production volume. Hilti has planned measures that will reduce the total waste 6,000 amount. In Plant 1, in Schaan, Liechten4,000 stein, for example, waste amounts will be 2,000 substantially reduced by the recycling of 6,638 5,910 6,672 6,844 segments containing cobalt and the reuse Recycled Hazardous Residual of industrial diamonds. Corporate social responsibility Environment Compliance 64 Key figures 2011 Hilti Company Report 65 Currency effects weaken strong growth. The Hilti Group generated sales growth of 14.6 percent in local currencies in the 2011 business year. In spite of this strong operating performance the company’s operating result declined by 23 percent while net income was down 32 percent; developments largely due to negative currency influences. The 2011 economic environment was primarily The positive growth in local currencies was signifidominated by positive development. The concantly reduced at Group level due to the ongoing, struction industry pertinent to the largest segment massive appreciation of the Swiss franc. The influof business proved very dynamic in Northern and ence was exceptionally large in the North America Central Europe as well as in Eastern Europe, Asia and Eastern Europe / Middle East / Africa Regions and Latin America. The market environment in as the currencies of these regions suffered disproNorth America, however, declined as it did in portionate devaluation against the Swiss franc. Southern Europe. Due to the great significance the euro zone holds for Hilti the weakness of the euro also was strongly Broad-based organic growth felt. When translated into Swiss francs, sales Against the backdrop of solid framework condigrowth at Group level was correspondingly retions, significant sales growth was achieved over duced by 12.9 percent to 1.7 percent. a broad geographic area. Strong growth was recorded in the Eastern Europe / Middle East / Africa Strong Swiss franc weighs down profit Region with sales advancing 39 percent in local In spite of a noteworthy rise in sales the 2011 ancurrencies. This included an acquisition-related nual results are characterized by a significant drop impact on growth of 22 percent, caused by the inin the profit level. The operating result (EBIT) was tegration of existing distribution partners. At Group 23 percent lower, declining from CHF 268 million to level the acquisition-related impact amounted to CHF 207 million. The operating margin (EBIT mar1.8 percent. gin) was reduced from 6.8 percent to 5.2 percent. Latin America continued the trend of strong Great strides were made in terms of productivity growth witnessed in recent years (+24%). Sales in both sales and production. Despite an increase grew 13 percent in North America although the in research and development expenditures to prevalent economic environment remained diffiCHF 184 million (+7%) expenses at Hilti Corpocult. The Asia/Pacific Region posted double-digit rate Headquarters were below their 2010 level. growth (+12%). Europe, the region with the largest share of sales, also had strong growth (+11%) alThe robust improvement in operational perforthough development in individual markets varied. mance was nonetheless significantly overcompenWhile double-digit growth was posted in North sated by two strongly negative factors: the strong and Central Europe, sales development was negrise in material prices, primarily for steel and oil ative in the weaker economies of Southern Euand mainly in the first half of 2011, and rising rope (Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy). transport costs. Due to existing price agreements 66 Key figures 2011 Hilti Company Report these factors were only transferred to the market implemented. Additionally, a program was introwith a significant delay. Gross margins therefore duced at Corporate Headquarters in Liechtenstein continued to be under pressure in 2011. The posithat will reduce costs by CHF 50 million (approxitive effect of compensating measures will largely mately 10%), having a positive influence on results take hold in 2012. within 18 months. In addition to implementing increased efficiency and cost-cutting measures, The Swiss franc had a considerable impact on the there is also a central emphasis on shifting developerating result. When adjusted for currencies the opment and support activities to less wage-cost operating result advanced 8.1 percent. But negaintensive regions and on optimizing the cost share tive currency effects weakened the operating reof the Swiss franc. sult by CHF 87 million. An additional negative currency effect of CHF 39 million in the financial reBalance sheet and cash flow remain solid sult was generated by the valuation of monetary Negative currency translation effects, resulting balance sheet items. Currency influences in the from the balance sheet conversion of Group comHilti Group’s profit and loss statement total panies into Swiss francs, amounted to CHF 35 milCHF 126 million. Group net income therefore fell lion. Hilti Group equity also was negatively impactfrom CHF 142 million to CHF 97 million (–32%). ed due to the increase in pension fund provisions of CHF 92 million required to close a balance sheet Reducing the share of Swiss franc costs deficit for the pension fund, in accordance with The extent of the dramatic appreciation of the IFRS. The share of equity as a proportion of total Swiss franc during 2011 can be viewed as an excapital nonetheless remained at a very solid ceptional development. We nonetheless continue 51 percent (2010: 54%). to expect further pressure on results due to both the overvalued Swiss franc and anticipated exThe positive trend of net working capital, seen in change rate volatility. the previous year, continued in 2011. Net working capital, valued at constant exchange rates, rose by Special importance is therefore given to the inten9.7 percent due to the generated growth. This sification of measures, initiated several years ago, growth rate, however, was significantly below the designed to improve the natural hedge. Ongoing 14.6-percent level of sales growth in local currenimprovement efforts in purchasing and manufaccies. Turnover rates further improved as a result. turing have been redoubled and further shifts of The receivables from finance leasing rose by production volume to plants in Mexico, China and CHF 67 million due to the growth in sales volume. Hungary, as well as into the euro zone, have been Cash flow from operating activities was reduced to 67 CHF 242 million due to lower profitability and highunderscores the pronounced strength of the er net working capital. Due to the comprehensive Group’s financial basis, even in an environment renovation of production and logistics structures as difficult as 2011. made in recent years, investments in tangible fixed assets could again be reduced, dropping from Outlook CHF 135 million to CHF 124 million. In spite of the The Hilti Group remains cautiously optimistic in lower profitability, caused by currency effects, free 2012. Demand in most end markets is solid at the cash flow once again amounted to CHF 82 million beginning of the year. However, due to the prob(before finance leasing, acquisition and integration lems in the euro zone we expect demand to level effects). out, particularly in Southern Europe, resulting in a negative influence on growth as a whole. SingleThe Board of Directors recommends a dividend digit expansion is anticipated. payment of CHF 47 million (2010: 71 million) for the 2011 business year. Assuming that there are no significant economic upheavals, the measures introduced to cut costs Cash and cash equivalent declined slightly from and to compensate the negative currency influ­ CHF 1.134 billion to CHF 1.063 billion. Interest ences should allow for sizeable increases to both bearing debts amounted to CHF 942 million at the operating result and the operating margin in the end of 2011, having risen by CHF 34 million. 2012. Short-term bank liabilities were CHF 113 million (+15 million) while long-term bank liabilities were CHF 81 million (+17 million). As of December 31, 2011, the Hilti Group maintained three bonds placed on the Swiss capital market totaling CHF 750 million. They have maturities in 2012 (300 million), 2013 (150 million) and 2014 (300 million). The Hilti Group thereby has a stable and comfortable level of net liquidity of CHF 121 million. Combined with the high equity ratio of 51 percent this 68 Key figures 2011 Hilti Company Report Key figures. Net sales (in CHF million) Operating result (in CHF million) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 6,000 600 5,000 500 4,000 400 3,000 300 2,000 200 1,000 100 4,667 4,700 3,845 3,930 3,998 533 450 172 268 207 Cash flow from operating activities (in CHF million) Net income (in CHF million) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 600 600 500 500 400 400 300 300 200 200 100 100 453 437 487 376 242 422 243 78 142 97 Research and development expenditure (in CHF million) Employees (as at December 31) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 300 24,000 250 22,000 200 20,000 150 18,000 100 16,000 50 14,000 177 189 182 172 184 19,903 20,994 19,709 20,305 21,848 Please note The following pages contain extracts from the 2011 Finan2011 Financial Report which will be available on the cial Report of the Hilti Group. Because these pages do not Group’s website (www.hilti.com) from late March 2012. contain the full consolidated financial statements, they do not present complete information about the financial posiThe full 2011 consolidated financial statements, which are tion, financial performance and cash flows of the Hilti included in the 2011 Financial Report, have been prepared Group for 2011. Complete information, including the notes in accordance with international financial reporting stanto the consolidated financial statements, is contained in the dards (IFRS). 69 Consolidated balance sheet of Hilti Group as at December 31 (in CHF million) ASSETS 2011 2010 Intangible assets 394.4 396.8 Property, plant and equipment 746.4 765.6 Investment property 6.8 4.6 Investments in associates and joint ventures 12.1 10.9 Deferred income tax assets 130.4 96.1 Other financial investments 16.6 12.5 Trade and other receivables 312.0 250.0 Derivative financial instruments 43.5 59.8 Total non-current assets 1,662.2 1,596.3 Inventories 615.9 559.8 Trade and other receivables 930.6 877.1 Current income taxes receivable 14.4 10.1 Accrued income and prepayments 47.6 47.8 Derivative financial instruments 8.2 27.7 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 26.4 40.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1,062.5 1,134.4 Assets classified as held for sale – – Total current assets 2,705.6 2,697.1 TOTAL ASSETS 4,367.8 4,293.4 70 Key figures 2011 Hilti Company Report EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2011 2010 Non-controlling interest 13.0 4.3 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,198.9 2,300.1 Total equity 2,211.9 2,304.4 Provisions 108.7 89.2 Pension and termination benefit obligations 303.2 226.5 Deferred income tax liabilities 29.8 24.7 Bonds 447.8 746.0 Long-term bank borrowings 81.2 63.8 Trade and other payables 24.7 19.8 Derivative financial instruments 1.4 1.7 Total non-current liabilities 996.8 1,171.7 Provisions 51.4 58.7 Trade and other payables 278.0 266.0 Current income taxes payable 98.4 102.7 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 304.8 290.4 Bonds 299.8 – Short-term bank borrowings 112.7 97.9 Derivative financial instruments 14.0 1.6 Total current liabilities 1,159.1 817.3 Total liabilities 2,155.9 1,989.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,367.8 4,293.4 Equity comprises share capital (176,000 registered shares All of the registered shares and participation certificates are with par value of CHF 500 each) and participation capital owned by the Martin Hilti Family Trust. (774,400 participation certificates with par value of CHF 50 each) as well as reserves. 71 Consolidated income statement of Hilti Group (in CHF million) 2011 2010 Net sales 3,997.5 3,929.9 Other operating revenues 73.9 87.6 Total operating revenues 4,071.4 4,017.5 Change in inventory 62.4 22.6 Material costs (1,418.0) (1,260.4) Personnel expenses (1,572.1) (1,594.5) Depreciation and amortization (215.8) (213.0) Other operating expenses (720.7) (704.6) Total operating expenses (3,864.2) (3,749.9) Operating result 207.2 267.6 Share of profit / (loss) of equity-accounted associates and joint ventures 2.4 0.6 Other revenues and expenses (net) (33.2) (43.9) Finance costs (57.5) (57.2) Net income before income tax expense 118.9 167.1 Income tax expense (22.4) (25.3) Net income 96.5 141.8 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 94.1 142.8 Non-controlling interest 2.4 (1.0) The notes to the consolidated financial statements, that immediately follow the consolidated cash flow statement, are an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of com­prehensive income and the consolidated cash flow statement. 72 Key figures 2011 Hilti Company Report Consolidated statement of comprehensive income of Hilti Group (in CHF million) 2011 2010 Net income per income statement 96.5 141.8 Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges taken to equity (2.1) 8.7 (Gains) / losses on cash flow hedges transferred from equity to income statement (9.3) (2.0) Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans (91.8) (70.3) Foreign currency translation differences (34.5) (180.0) Deferred tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity 13.9 9.2 Other comprehensive income (123.8) (234.4) Total comprehensive income (27.3) (92.6) Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent (30.2) (91.3) Non-controlling interest 2.9 (1.3) 73 Consolidated cash flow statement of Hilti Group (in CHF million) 2011 2010 Net income 96.5 141.8 Adjustment for depreciation and amortization 215.8 213.0 Adjustments for non-operating transactions 127.3 136.6 Cash flow from operating activities before interest, tax and working capital changes 439.6 491.4 (Increase) / decrease in inventories (62.4) (28.5) (Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (54.9) (41.9) Increase / (decrease) in trade payables 20.7 7.0 (Increase) / decrease other net operating assets (3.8) 48.0 Cash flow from operating activities before interest and tax 339.2 476.0 Interest received 7.1 6.1 Interest paid (57.5) (57.2) Income tax paid (47.3) (49.3) Cash flow from operating activities 241.5 375.6 Capital expenditure on intangible assets (87.9) (85.1) Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (123.7) (134.6) Acquisition of subsidiaries (7.2) (149.7) (Increase) / decrease in financial investments 9.1 (3.6) Disposal of intangible assets – 0.4 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 7.9 3.3 (Increase) / decrease in finance lease receivables (67.4) (19.3) Cash flow from investing activities (269.2) (388.6) Increase in long-term bank borrowings 26.7 29.4 (Decrease) in long-term bank borrowings (10.1) (30.3) Increase / (decrease) in long term loans 3.2 – Increase / (decrease) in short-term bank borrowings 18.8 23.8 Increase in bonds – – Increase / (decrease) in liability to shareholder (0.4) 0.2 Dividend paid (71.0) – Cash flow from financing activities (32.8) 23.1 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (11.4) (42.5) Total increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (71.9) (32.4) Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 1,134.4 1,166.8 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 1,062.5 1,134.4 74 Key figures 2011 Hilti Company Report Key figures of Hilti Group 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Results (CHF million / %) Net sales 3,998 3,930 3,845 4,700 4,667 Depreciation and amortization 216 213 200 185 181 Operating result 207 268 172 450 533 Net income before tax 119 167 136 308 496 Net income 97 142 78 243 422 Return on assets (RoA) in % (Net income + Finance costs) 3.6 4.6 3.2 7.1 12.8 Return on equity (RoE) in % (Net income) 4.3 6.0 3.2 9.9 18.2 Cash flow from operating activities 242 376 487 437 453 Balance sheet (CHF million / %) Total equity 2,212 2,304 2,396 2,429 2,483 Total equity in % Total equity and liabilities 51 54 55 58 64 Non-current liabilities 997 1,172 1,135 829 436 Current liabilities 1,159 817 795 946 942 Capital expenditures on Intangible assets and on Property, plant and equipment 212 209 283 290 246 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 1,141 1,162 1,101 1,024 952 Other non-current assets 521 434 414 386 339 Current assets 2,706 2,697 2,811 2,795 2,570 Total assets 4,368 4,293 4,326 4,204 3,861 Dividend* 47 71 – 96 117 Employees (as at December 31) 21,848 20,305 19,709 20,994 19,903 * As proposed by the Board of Directors 2011 sales growth year on year* 2011 2010 Change Change in CHF million in CHF million in CHF (%) in local currencies (%) Europe 2,240 2,229 0.5 11 North America 712 740 -4 13 Latin America 118 110 7 24 Asia / Pacific 488 485 0.5 12 Eastern Europe / Middle East / Africa 440 366 20 39 Hilti Group 3,998 3,930 2 15 * The segmentation of the regions corresponds with the changed internal organization. The previous year’s figures were restated accordingly. 75 The Hilti trades. Building construction Civil engineering Steel and metal The innovative tools and accesOne of Hilti’s aims in civil engiSteel and metal construction sories we supply to the construcneering is to provide the ability to specialists expect peak perfortion industry are as varied as the carry out demolition or heavy mance – and achieve it with our applications in this field. Hilti chiseling work quickly and safely. system solutions. With our supplies a range of products for Our powerful and durable tools know-how and aids such as anmeasuring, drilling, chiseling, provide high reliability in this field. chor design software we also cutting, grinding or fastening as Many of our products, including support planners and contracwell as special solutions for aptime-saving fastening solutions, tors in this business. Whether plications such as rebar connecare also approved for use in senleveling, aligning and anchoring tions or formwork in construcsitive environments such as in the steel structures, fastening protion, renovation and demolition. atomic power industry. Critical file metal roofing sheets and faBeing matched system compofastenings designed to take up çade panels or installing railings nents, these products offer outhigh loads or post-installed rebar or canopy roofs, we are the standing performance, reliability connections can be installed with one-stop shop for all requireand high efficiency. Health and exceptional reliability thanks to ments. We supply direct fastensafety always have priority, and field-leading technological develing systems, high-speed screw our well-proven dust removal, viopments and the experienced fastening systems and versatile bration reduction and active advice offered by Hilti engineers anchor solutions backed by a torque control systems provide at the planning stage or on the broad range of advanced, safehighly effective protection for the construction site. ty-tested and ergonomically deuser. signed tools – all in renowned Hilti quality. Hilti DX 460 MX powder-actuated Hilti POS 18 total station Hilti ST 1800-A22 fastening tool with X-FS form stop 76 Interior finishing Plumbing, heating Electrical Concrete sawing Our goal is higher productivity and air conditioning Hilti direct fastening systems and coring and greater reliability for conThe ability to work quickly and make electrical installation Reliable equipment and tractors in every field of interior efficiently while achieving high work exceptionally efficient – dependable services are of finishing including drywall and quality, regardless of the appliand virtually dustless. The great importance to service ceiling installation, tiling and cation or the materials on comprehensive range of eleccontractors. Hilti is renowned floor renovation and door and which the installation work is trical fasteners supplied by not only for innovative equipwindow installation. Laser tools carried out, is an essential Hilti covers a broad spectrum ment and accessories, but for measuring and aligning, a everyday requirement for speof applications in this trade, also for on-time delivery and comprehensive range of drilling cialists in this field. The Hilti while highly effective dust requick repairs. Our unique Hilti tools and anchors, and direct product range offers a multimoval systems for power tools Fleet Management system fastening and screw fastening tude of efficient solutions for make slitting, cutting, drilling guarantees availability of systems for repetitive use enmeasuring and laying out fasand chiseling on mineral matereplacement tools at all times, sure top productivity and cost tening points, drilling anchor rials of all kinds quicker, easier comprehensive services at calefficiency. Concrete surface finholes, making penetrations in and more reliable. Hilti cordculable costs as well as rental ishing, keeping dust to a miniwalls and ceilings, and fastenless tools for drilling, screwequipment to cover periods of mum, plus the use of special ing pipes and ducts of all driving and cutting set the peak demand. Hilti also manufoams for insulation, filling, faskinds to walls, floors and ceilstandard where maximum mofactures wall saw blades and tening and soundproofing, are ings. We also supply a combility is required in conjunction core bits to customer specifiother areas in which our knowprehensive range of firestop with high performance and cations for special applicahow is in great demand. Hilti’s products designed to seal off long battery life. tions. Training for users in product portfolio for interior finpipes and openings in the operating new equipment plus ishers is rounded off by a comevent of fire. expert advice from Hilti engiprehensive range of firestop neers are just some of the products. additional services we offer. Hilti GX 120 gas-actuated Hilti TE 6-A36 cordless rotary Hilti CP 653 speed sleeve Hilti DST 10-E wall saw system fastening tool hammer with the TE DRS-6-A dust removal system Trades 2011 Hilti Company Report Mining Solar Energy A combination of outstandThe ability to install any One of our prime goals in ing technology, competent type of solar panel with only the energy industry is to on-site analysis of requiresix system components enprovide innovative soluments and reliable services sures high cost-efficiency tions that boost productivmake Hilti the preferred partand great flexibility. The Hilti ity, increase reliability and ner for the mining industry. panel mounting system minimize health and safety Our TE MD20 electric rock consists of preassembled, risks. Hilti certainly has a drilling system not only procorrosion-resistant parts great deal to offer in this vides high performance, it and thus ensures easy infield. Our well-proven dialso significantly reduces stallation and long life. Hilti rect fastening methods health hazards caused by know-how in structural deand flexible modular pipe noise and vibrations. Hilti’s sign and foundation work installation systems, for inOneStep self-drilling rock combined with a broad stance, can make timeanchor system makes wall range of innovative prodconsuming and costly and roof bolting quicker ucts ensure the required welding or tedious instalwhile cutting operating and versatility for groundlation work unnecessary in servicing costs. The commounted solar parks as well many cases. Offering prehensive Hilti portfolio of as roof installations. Our excompetent, on-the-spot products and accessories perts with many years of support with the planning makes the installation of inexperience provide support and execution of complex frastructure above and bein planning, specification energy projects of all maglow ground more efficient and project management. nitudes, our specialists are than ever before. at your service throughout the world. Hilti TE MD20 drilling system Hilti MSP-AL photovoltaic Hilti DX 351 BT powder-actupanel mounting system ated fastening tool with X-BT threaded stud We help our customers to be successful. We identify their needs and provide them with innovative solutions featuring outstanding added value. Hilti. Outperform. Outlast. www.hilti.com
