i Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Sustainable value in a changing world Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated and LaSalle Investment Management 2011 CSR Report The measure of value. Where ever you go in the world of property, all markets have one thing in common: value is measured by the square foot or meter. For the people of Jones Lang LaSalle, there is also one constant. In every city where we work, with every client we serve, we operate with the highest ethical principles. Around the world our teams are dedicated to delivering sustainable value for clients while supporting local communities to build a resilient future together. One square at a time. Our 2011 CSR and sustainability awards What’s inside? One of our most important business goals is to maintain our position as a leader one of the best in our industry. We regularly receive recognition for our leadership around the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability agenda. 2011 was no 01 Our 2011 CSR and sustainability exception as we continued to receive a number of high-profile awards. Achieving awards awards during one year is commendable, but we deem our continual levels of high performance and progress to be more important. 02 Who we are 03 In conversation with our CEO Global 05 About us 07 Our approach 08 CSR and sustainability strategy 11 Governance 13 Energy and climate 20 Client service excellence Americas 26 Green buildings 34 Community commitment 39 Workplace, well-being and diversity 46 Addendum, data and feedback 47 Review of CSR targets’ progress 49 LaSalle Investment Management’s Platform Asia Pacific 52 External stakeholder feedback – responding to Ceres 53 About this Report 54 Data summary 58 GRI content index 60 United Nations Global Compact content index 61 Contact us EMEA Note to PDF user This PDF utilizes interactive elements. Click on contents and hyperlinks for easy navigation. The section titles of each footer also have interactive functionality. Link to external site or document Case study Image reference (cover): Jones Lang LaSalle’s corporate office in Hong Kong located at Three Pacific Place set a new industry standard when it was awarded with a record LEED® Platinum score. It received the highest number of points of any certified project using the LEED® for Commercial Interiors rating system in the world today. Jones Lang LaSalle is the first real estate company to secure this Platinum rating. Through the commitment to achieve the highest LEED® certification level, Jones Lang LaSalle sought to build a healthier, more productive workplace – this is less costly to operate and has a reduced negative impact on the environment. Who we are Jones Lang LaSalle is a leading financial and professional services firm specializing in real estate. We offer comprehensive, integrated real estate and investment management expertise on a local, regional and global level to owner, occupier and investor clients. 3 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr In conversation with our CEO Colin Dyer, Jones Lang LaSalle’s President and Chief Executive Officer, discusses how the Firm is moving forward on sustainability and CSR. What are the Firm’s goals and how do they align with sustainability? Jones Lang LaSalle’s strategic priorities continue to be founded on creating value for our clients, shareholders and employees. As part of this – and I am proud to see it first-hand – we are helping our clients and ourselves realize the value of corporate responsibility. Whether that involves providing sustainability-related advice to clients through many of our services, or leveraging connections within our own Firm to integrate our internal CSR efforts, sustainability is not just aligned, but increasingly embedded, in everything we do. Where do you think Jones Lang LaSalle has the biggest impact through environmental sustainability? Colin Dyer “ Buildings are responsible for around 40% of energy use globally, so it is undoubtedly the President and Chief Executive Officer built environment, and how we manage this for our clients, where we can make a long-lasting impact. In fact, across the whole property lifecycle, from planning and development through to management and refurbishment, we have an opportunity – Every day – and I am proud to see this and a significant one – to make a difference by advising developers, investors and first-hand – we are helping our clients occupiers on their sustainability decisions. and ourselves realize the value of Published research1 illustrates the point as an indicator of market potential; more than corporate responsibility. Sustainability “ $279 billion could be invested in the residential, commercial and institutional sectors in the is not just aligned, but increasingly U.S. alone to yield more than $1 trillion of energy savings over ten years. This presents a embedded, in everything we do. substantial opportunity, and we want Jones Lang LaSalle to lead in this area. Yet despite our commitment to energy and sustainability services, less than one percent of our 2011 revenues was related to energy and sustainability, so we have ample room to grow this business and differentiate ourselves by helping clients work towards resilient real estate. What are your strategic priorities related to sustainability over the short to medium term? We manage a huge volume of real estate for clients – some 2.1 billion square feet worldwide – so the opportunity to affect sustainable change is powerful. We have signed up to a number of industry initiatives, such as the ‘Better Buildings Challenge’ in the U.S., where we have committed to reduce energy use by at least 20% by the year 2020 in large buildings totaling 98 million square feet. Another example: LaSalle Investment Management made a commitment to double the properties it submits to Greenprint, where I am a founding member of the Board, by the end of 2012. We also continue to align our efforts with internationally agreed standards such as the United Nations Global Compact and the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment. Have economic uncertainties restrained your priorities? Despite challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and Europe, corporate clients continue to pursue worldwide growth strategies. As a result, they are striving to control costs through outsourcing and are increasing their demand for real estate services. Investor clients largely continued to operate in a smaller and slower real estate transaction market as a result of the 2008 financial crisis. However, in 2011, commercial values in most markets were rising and cross-border capital flows continued to increase. Generally, the impetus behind sustainability, corporate governance and ethics – which is being accelerated by new legislation – means that energy and sustainability advice is gradually becoming a business necessity. (I spoke about sustainability as one of four emerging trends during the January 2011 Davos meeting, which you can learn more about here.) 1 Report by the Rockefeller Foundation and DB Climate Change Advisors Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 4 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr What are the main challenges for Jones Lang LaSalle over the next few years? As in any enterprise, there are inherent risks that we have to manage and mitigate. Markets are changing rapidly, and we need to anticipate and adapt to them. New technology, social media and advances in data management are creating both opportunities and challenges to our business. Legal and regulatory changes are also having an impact on the way we operate. Importantly, we are always managing and fine-tuning our resources to best meet such challenges so that we can continue to deliver exceptional, fully integrated solutions for our clients worldwide. How have the Firm’s employees embraced sustainability and CSR? I am continually amazed by our people’s enthusiasm and imagination, some of which is channeled through our employee engagement program ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’. In addition, we now have more than 1,000 energy and sustainability accredited professionals – a figure still on the rise. And we see exciting new ideas originating from our da Vinci Awards. There is also a true spirit of generosity in our people toward many charitable and community initiatives. In 2011, the Company and our employees spent more than $4 million on charitable initiatives. Our employees also participated in well over 2,000 volunteering days, supporting local community projects, creating our own charitable fundraising events and engaging with diversity programs. What do you see as Jones Lang LaSalle’s significant achievements in 2011? We are proud to have been repeatedly recognized with prestigious successes that affirm our approach to sustainability, ethics and leadership. We have shown that ‘we can do as we advise’. For example, our Hong Kong corporate office achieved the world’s highest LEED® Platinum score for a Commercial Interiors project. And 72% of our corporate offices around the world have included sustainability elements in their occupancy strategies. Equally, our partnership with the Carbon Disclosure Project for Cities reflects our commitment to sustainability globally. Our values were reinforced by external awards from organizations such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, which named us ‘ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year’ for the third time in 2011 (and affirmed our position with a Sustained Excellence Award in 2012), and the Ethisphere Institute, which named us one of the ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ for the fourth consecutive year in 2011 (and for the fifth in 2012). Companies on Ethisphere’s list have consistently and significantly outperformed the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index. And FORTUNE recognized us as one of the ‘World’s Most Admired Companies’ for the third year. I want to thank you for your continued interest in Jones Lang LaSalle and for the feedback we receive related to reports such as this, which aim to increase our transparency and accountability for all our stakeholders. Colin Dyer President and Chief Executive Officer Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 5 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr About us Revenue by service line in 2011 Jones Lang LaSalle introduction Across our three geographic business segments – the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific – we deliver a complete array of real estate services. We are an industry leader in property and corporate facility management services, with a portfolio of approximately 2.1 billion square feet worldwide. Our fourth business segment – LaSalle Investment Management – is a wholly-owned member of the Jones Lang LaSalle group and one of the world’s largest and most diversified real estate investment management firms. LaSalle Investment Management manages $47.7 billion of private and public property equity investments. Where we operate Leasing Services 33% Property & Facilities 24% Management Capital Markets & Hotels 13% Project & Development 12% Services Advisory, Consulting & Other 10% Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Investment Management 8% 81 offices 8 countries 76 offices 31 countries 64 offices 13 countries Data qualification notes: The above figures align with our Annual Report. For the purposes of CSR indicators throughout this Report that incorporate a corporate office figure, we have used a corporate office count from our Revenue by region in 2011 carbon management system. We are incorporated under the laws of the state of Maryland as a publicly owned company, governed by a board of directors. Shares of Jones Lang LaSalle are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: JLL) and our global headquarters is in Chicago, Illinois. As of December 31, 2011, we had 221 corporate offices worldwide and operations in more than 52 countries. Our employee count surpassed 45,000 in 2011. This increase resulted primarily from mergers and acquisitions in each region, as well as organic growth. Worldwide employees 2011 2010 2009 Total 45,500 40,300 36,600 Americas 42% Data qualification notes: The source of the above figures is our global financial consolidation system, which uses EMEA 27% 45,500 as our 2011 year-end employee total. This figure differs from that of our people management system, which uses 43,019 as our 2011 year-end employee total and excludes Australian staff (1,661 employees). This Asia Pacific 23% results from different definitions of headcount, as well as different system scopes. We have used the latter figure LaSalle Investment Management 8% to normalize our carbon footprint because the disaggregation better represents employee count in our corporate offices. This also explains the variance between the figures above and employee totals in the workplace figures (e.g. ‘Employees by age’ on page 41). Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 6 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Key financials and statistics Revenue by market in 2011 In 2011, we generated record-setting revenues totaling $3.6 billion across our four business segments, a 23% increase over 2010. In June 2011, we merged with the London-based international consultancy King Sturge, which added 1,600 colleagues to our corporate family. This reflects only one example of acquisitions around the world. The following financial highlights should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as the ‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations’ included in our Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ending December 31, 2011. 2011 2010 2009 Revenue (million $) 3,584.5 2,925.6 2,480.7 Net income (loss) (million $) 164.0 153.5 (4.1) United States 42% Diluted earnings (loss) ($ per diluted share) 3.70 3.48 (0.11) United Kingdom 13% EBITDA (million $) 338.8 319.9 139.9 Other Europe 7% Australia 7% Greater China (incl. Hong Kong) 6% France 5% Other Global 5% Germany 4% Japan 4% India 4% Singapore 3% Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback Our approach The pace of economic, societal and environmental changes continues to present our business with significant risks and opportunities. A robust understanding of where we can have the biggest impact in relation to those risks and opportunities sits at the heart of our CSR strategy. Transparency and accountability are also core features of our approach and we remain focused on the highest standards of governance and ethics in all our business dealings. 8 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr CSR and sustainability strategy Global Sustainability Commitment As a part of our commitment to create real value in a changing world, we are determined to hold ourselves accountable for the social, environmental and economic impacts of our operations and are committed to developing policies, business practices and services that will drive continuing positive change in our industry. Established in 2008, our Global Sustainability Commitment plays a key role in shaping our sustainability strategy. It includes three main objectives: ▪ Lead the transformation of the property industry by reducing the environmental impact of commercial real estate ▪ Increase our investment in energy and sustainability expertise ▪ Reduce our carbon footprint through our ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ initiative, which focuses on energy conservation, water conservation, emissions reduction, solid waste reduction, recycling and recycled material use Two key pillars for delivering our commitment There is a strong business case around how sustainability creates value for Jones Lang LaSalle (view our Chief Executive Officer’s paper at our CSR homepage). As such, we have established a CSR and sustainability strategy that focuses on two primary pillars: (1) the Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) we provide to clients and (2) our internal CSR program, which seeks to reduce our own operational impacts. Together they form a powerful strategy that has the potential to create a significant legacy in our industry. Our value drivers Outperform S&P 500 with leading Increase profit through Create long-lasting ethics & corporate governance value for our clients practices as contributing factors strong delivery of services Look like the diverse Retain experienced, Build a profitable energy and sustainability business, while clients we serve talented professionals improving the environment Pillar 1 Pillar 2 Energy and Sustainability Internal CSR program Services (ESS) teams  Defines a global framework whereby  Work to create a more sustainable organizational and operational property industry changes are championed locally  Embed change at the corporate  ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ aims and portfolio level by delivering to develop leading environmental sustainability strategies and and employee engagement technical implementation plans Our standards in our own offices  Deliver sustainable solutions for strategy  Fosters strong principles of ethics, property companies, investors, corporate governance and diversity, occupiers, government authorities aligning with the expectations of and homebuilders our clients and communities  Offer advice across all stages of the  Enables us to ‘walk the talk’, property lifecycle, including so that we can help our clients development, acquisition, do the same management, refurbishment and  Driven by a global team of experts disposal who measure and report on the  Operate globally and in key Company’s sustainability impacts markets, enabling us to provide comprehensive integrated sustainability and real estate advice and implementation Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 9 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Although we view both pillars as critical to our CSR and sustainability strategy, we are The scale of our operational and aware that the potential positive impacts of our Energy and Sustainability Services advice client impacts can be substantially greater than the positive impacts of our own direct activities and operations. Given the focus on these key value drivers and our strong pillars for delivery, it is not surprising to find in our 2010 global Employee Engagement Survey that 74% of our staff responded favorably when asked if he or she felt positive about our commitment to CSR. Jones Lang LaSalle Client impacts We expect this percentage to increase as our CSR program matures. Since we conduct operational impacts (direct) (indirect) our global Employee Engagement Survey bi-annually, we plan to share results of the 2012 Survey in next year’s Report. Percentage of employees who feel positive about Jones Lang LaSalle’s commitment to CSR 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Agree or strongly agree 74% Jones Lang LaSalle’s most engaged units benchmark 84% ................................................................................................................... Data qualification notes: Results are from our 2010 global Employment Engagement Survey. Average global response rate was 74%. Rankings of four or five equal ‘agree or strongly agree’ on a scale of one to five. ‘Most engaged units’ indicates the response from the 25% most engaged units within Jones Lang LaSalle. A global Kenexa benchmark was not available for this question. Jones Lang LaSalle’s material CSR and sustainability issues We recognize the importance of reporting on issues that have the greatest impact on our business, as well as those of greatest concern to our key stakeholders. In 2010, we developed a methodology to identify material CSR issues that reflect both direct impacts of our operations and indirect impacts arising from actions taken on behalf of clients. You can find more on this process in our 2010 CSR Report. We did not extensively review our material impacts during 2011. However, we did witness shifts in priority issues due to client or other stakeholder requests. For example, this Report details our increased transparency around health and safety in businesses where employees are exposed to material risks on a facility or site that we manage. The outcome of our 2010 assessment resulted in five key material issues, which are detailed below. These form the basis for the themes we subsequently address in this Report. Material issues CSR themes covered in this Report Energy and climate Energy efficiency; greenhouse gas emissions reduction; renewable energy Client service excellence Client satisfaction; ethics; sustainability thought leadership and innovation Green buildings Property lifecycle; building certifications and assessments; sustainable retrofits; green leases Community commitment Charitable contributions and investment; volunteering; supplier sustainability Workplace, well-being and Diversity; employee satisfaction and engagement; training and diversity development; health and safety Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 10 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Our stakeholders Examples of stakeholder engagement Strong stakeholder relations underpin virtually every successful business. Our success is in large part related to our extensive network of stakeholder relationships across the real The following examples provide a snapshot estate sector. The following diagram identifies a range of stakeholders, whereby those that of how engagement with our stakeholders fall into the middle (indicated by ‘1’) are considered primary stakeholder groups. in 2011 has influenced corporate decision making: Stakeholder map Jones Lang LaSalle’s leadership Sustainability is at the forefront of our leaders’ minds. Whether a discussion point at the EMEA Leadership Conference, a one-hour Sustainability 5 Session led by Lauralee Martin (global COO and Stakeholders to whom we owe a legal, CFO), or a decision by the UK Executive Board to financial and operational duty incorporate sustainability into all business units, the vision for a sustainable future is driven from the top. 4 2 Stakeholders who are likely to influence our performance Employees 1 Stakeholders who are affected by During 2011, we continued to engage with our 7 6 our operations employees through internal communications, 3 an Intranet site dedicated to the ACT ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ program and global efforts such as Earth Hour. This does not even begin to cover the individual action that takes place locally, where our employee engagement efforts are strongest. 1 Shareholders 4 Local communities Clients Suppliers Our clients’ clients Employees We regularly conduct surveys with clients and Clients 5 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) the wider industry to understand the latest trends Business partners / JVs and drivers. The CoreNet / Jones Lang LaSalle Jones Lang LaSalle’s Board of Directors Other regulators worldwide, such as the Financial Services Authority (UK) Global Survey (conducted Q4 2010) and Global 2 Governments & regulators Corporate Real Estate Survey 2011 are two Analysts (SRI & mainstream) 6 Sustainability bodies and associations examples that serve to shape industry opinion and Media help us to develop a more tailored service offer for 3 NGOs our clients. Industry bodies 7 Employees’ families Wider society (social media) Shareholders Our Investor Relations program incorporates Red denotes priority stakeholders feedback directly from shareholders, which is received in quarterly earnings calls and through annual voting for each of our Board members and From this analysis we have prioritized three stakeholder groups: clients, shareholders and on our executive compensation. Please see our Proxy Statement for more information. employees. The Report is intended for these groups and we engage with them by using a variety of channels. Through these activities, we continue to learn a lot about important Multi-stakeholder engagement CSR issues and we utilize this to influence our CSR strategy and corporate decisions. Through our engagement with Ceres, a U.S. network of investors, environmental organizations and public interest groups, we received suggestions via a two-hour stakeholder call in February 2012 on how to improve our CSR Report. A session of this kind was last held in November 2009. Please see page 52 for further information on how we have responded to feedback from Ceres. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 11 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Governance We comply with the corporate governance laws of the world’s most stringent regulatory authorities. These include the New York Stock Exchange, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and financial services authorities in the UK, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia, among other countries. The following section provides details of our governance structure, including how it relates to CSR. Over the years, we have developed metrics showing that strong corporate governance increases profitability by reducing significant direct costs that can result from lapses in governance or ethics. Even as our revenues have almost quadrupled over the last nine years, some costs, such as our insurance premiums – an important market-based indication of the level of enterprise risk – are actually lower than they were seven years ago, even before taking inflation into account. This is consistent with data published by Sheila Penrose “ Chairman of the Board the Ethisphere Institute, which shows that the stock performance of those companies included in their list of the ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ has been significantly better than that of companies listed in the S&P 500 Index. Jones Lang LaSalle’s Board of Directors recognizes the importance The Board of Directors of being a good corporate citizen. Our Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for overseeing our business. The Board This is evident through the Board’s elects our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating and Financial Officer, regular reviews of CSR issues, as well as other senior officers. The management team, with the Board’s oversight, is as well as the strong link between “ responsible for conducting the Company’s business to enhance its long-term value. The CSR and how the Board evaluates Board currently has 11 directors, eight of whom are independent directors. Our Board is performance of the Company’s senior diverse in terms of gender, ethnicity and national origin. management. Jones Lang LaSalle has separated the roles of Chief Executive Officer from that of the Chairman of the Board, who is one of our independent directors. Shareholder advocacy groups generally consider this as best practice. Over the years, we have implemented other measures designed to provide shareholders with the highest level of governance relative to public companies generally; annual voting for Directors, majority voting for Directors, enhanced abilities to call for special meetings, and annual advisory voting on executive compensation. Sustainability and CSR governance The Board of Directors takes an active role in the oversight of the Company’s CSR efforts. Jones Lang LaSalle’s global Chief Operating and Financial Officer, Lauralee Martin, serves as the main Board member responsible for sustainability and CSR matters. She issues regular reports on our global CSR strategy and performance, drawing on reports made by two bodies that reflect both pillars of our CSR and sustainability strategy: ▪ The Global Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) Board is the main governance Mark Ohringer body responsible for developing and implementing a consistent global ESS offering. The Global General Counsel and Corporate Secretary; “ Chief Ethics Officer Board is made up of regional heads of ESS and is led by the global Head of ESS. ▪ Our internal CSR programs are governed by the Global Operating Committee chaired In 2011, we more formally by our global Chief Operating and Financial Officer. The Committee, which coordinates incorporated CSR into the Global its enterprise risk activities with our Internal Audit function, has recently adopted Operating Committee, providing a governance over CSR initiatives. direct link to the Board of Directors. Both the Global Energy and Sustainability Services Board and Global Operating Committee This allows us to further integrate feed directly into our Board of Directors. These groups are in place to deliver our Global sustainability into our operating “ Sustainability Commitment and Environmental Sustainability Policy, which can be found on procedures and decisions, while also our CSR website. providing increased accountability and management oversight. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 12 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Energy and Sustainability Services and CSR governance overview Jones Lang LaSalle Nominating Compensation Board of Directors Committee Committee Lauralee Martin Governance Audit Carbon Footprint (Global COO and CFO) Committee Committee Network Executive Sponsor LaSalle Global Global Operating Sustainability Sustainability Global ESS Board Chief Operating Committee Committee University Chair – Dan Probst Officer Network Chair – Lauralee Martin Chair – Lynn Thurber Building & Portfolio Refurbishments; Energy Services; Sustainability Global ACT Assessments; New Developments; Sustainable Consulting Committee Benchmarking Certifications Operations Network of ESS leads in other business lines / countries Regional / Country CSR Governance Formal Externally focused Internally focused A strength of our internal CSR governance structure is that it includes local and regional participation. As an example of this, during 2011, a CSR Governance Committee was established in Asia Pacific with the aim to articulate the strategic importance of CSR; to share best practices; to increase internal and external visibility; and to monitor and communicate CSR initiatives across the region. For the first time in 2011 we measured the uptake of CSR programs around the world, as determined by the existence of written plans and/or governance structures. 44% of the respondents to our CSR survey reported that some type of formal support existed for an internal CSR program. CSR plan and committee Maturity and uptake of formal support for internal CSR programs in 2011 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Less mature program Annual written plan/objectives and governance Governance committee/local green teams only committee/local green teams No annual written plan/objectives and no governance Annual written plan/objectives only committee/local green teams ....................................................................................................................................................................................... Data qualification notes: This chart shows a percentage out of total number of survey respondents, which is 57. Respondents represent countries with the exception of China and the Southern Cone. Sustainability governance in LaSalle Investment Management LaSalle Investment Management’s sustainability initiatives are led by a 21-member Global Sustainability Committee, in addition to the inclusion of LaSalle Investment Management’s perspective in the groups previously mentioned. Chaired by the non-executive Chairman of LaSalle Investment Management with the sponsorship of the Chief Executive Officer and LaSalle Investment Management’s Global Management Committee, the Committee consists of senior leaders from across the globe in all areas of the business, ensuring that we remain up-to-date on all aspects of sustainability and that we share our knowledge and practices Company-wide. This Committee advises on how to achieve the highest environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards. For a list of the Committee Members see here. LaSalle Investment Management’s Global Management Committee recently approved a policy document, which outlines LaSalle’s position regarding sustainability and responsible investing, and states that we are committed to meeting the sustainability needs of our clients and our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback Energy and climate Energy saving measures in buildings represent the greatest potential for our clients to reduce carbon emissions and save money. We have a significant opportunity to make a meaningful impact on climate change while also generating profits for our shareholders. Image reference: Jones Lang LaSalle has managed Rio Negro Administrative Center since 2004. Major projects have been conducted to keep the building up-to-date and attractive, including sustainability enhancements that have led to operational benefits and cost savings for the client: LEED® Silver, which is the first certification in Brazil at this level; reductions of energy by 20% and of water by 35%, which generated savings of R$308,000 (or the same as one year of condominium fees) during 2010; and implementation of a separate collection system for solid waste management. 14 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Energy and climate introduction CSR targets (2011 – 2012) Buildings are responsible for 40% of carbon emissions worldwide and climate change is recognized as one of the greatest challenges facing humankind. Acknowledging this Achieved challenge, Jones Lang LaSalle is playing an active role in the Better Buildings Challenge ▪ Delivered carbon savings for clients that exceeded ten times our own global footprint (see right). For further information go to this website. On-going We recognize the complexity of the climate change challenge and that government action ▪ Continue reducing the energy consumption/carbon alone cannot provide the urgent solutions required. For this reason, we continue to invest footprint of our own corporate offices significant resources into developing energy and carbon management services for our ▪ Improve the accuracy of carbon data metrics clients, alongside efforts to manage our own footprint. ▪ Implement energy efficiency initiatives in our corporate offices Energy and climate risks directly impact our own operations as well, whether because of A review of progress against these CSR targets is rising fuel prices or legislative changes. And these risks continue to increase. The material on pages 47-48 of this Report. risks that we face as a business are discussed in our Annual Report to Shareholders and include references to climate change risks (see pages 34 and 41-42 of our Report). This section explores in more detail the proactive steps we have taken to help mitigate Better Buildings Challenge the risks of and create opportunities from climate change and our energy management business. In December 2011, Colin Dyer, CEO of Jones Lang LaSalle, attended the launch of the ‘Better Buildings Challenge’ with Energy and climate summary President Obama, former President Clinton Achievements Challenges and representatives from more than 60 other organizations. The Challenge – supported Our clients’ energy efficiency and carbon footprint As a global organization, we have the size and by the U.S. Department of Energy – includes Documented $105 million in energy savings and resources to offer globally integrated services, Jones Lang LaSalle’s commitment to reduced 587,000 metric tons of CO2e in our U.S. including those that relate to energy needs. develop action plans that will improve energy managed portfolio, resulting in $1.5 billion in However, given the various business models that efficiency at large properties totaling 98 value creation for our clients exist in each region and therefore the different million square feet across its U.S. managed LaSalle Investment Management has completed databases and systems, it has been challenging to offer a globally consistent platform that meets portfolio, in order to achieve a 20 percent $6.6 million in capital improvements on energy reduction by 2020. Through this sustainability upgrades, with an estimated annual the needs of clients with global portfolios. Although an obstacle, we are spending considerable partnership, Jones Lang LaSalle will highlight cost saving of $2 million for selected assets in the U.S. investment and time tackling this issue. its innovative strategies to identify energy Having conducted our carbon footprint exercise savings and to determine costs, which will Renewable energy for the fourth time in 2011, we still encountered enable establishing a solid business case for We have helped clients avert an estimated 1.22 issues related to data integrity, including easily additional investment. million metric tons of CO2e per year since 2007, recognizable errors to larger issues such as lack resulting from installed or operational renewables of confidence in automated procedures. We projects; an additional 4.01 million metric tons of honed in on several aspects and worked to CO2e per year have the potential to be averted correct the process, enabling our ability to affect Our own carbon footprint impactful change throughout our own operations. Lafarge – Energy savings for a Documented 49,000 metric tons CO2e in our own Given the tough economic conditions the world global office portfolio buildings, which equates to 3.45 metric tons of faced last year, several of our businesses suffered CO2e per corporate office employee, or a 17% either due to internal cost cutting efforts or In 2011, Jones Lang LaSalle’s French reduction in building-related emissions per because of external measures, such as the sustainability team was awarded an employee from 2010 to 2011 political environment. Related to the latter, and as assignment by Lafarge, the world leader in Achieved a disclosure score of 79/100 (supply just one example, our Renewable Energy building materials, to assess and optimize its chain average is 51) and a performance score of Services team was disbanded in EMEA due to the energy performance across nine countries C (supply chain average is D) for our 2011 governments’ lack of incentives and a generally and three regions. Jones Lang LaSalle Carbon Disclosure Project submission uncertain policy landscape, resulting from European austerity measures. identified over €200,000 of no/low-cost energy savings and enabled payback of project costs within less than one year. The energy optimization project covered 800,000 square feet of real estate, including 11 of Lafarge’s head offices, at which Jones Lang LaSalle established strong relationships with local client teams. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 15 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Energy management for our clients LaSalle Investment Management As we manage approximately 2.1 billion square feet of real estate for clients, the greatest – tracking energy savings for our contribution we can make to mitigate climate change is to reduce our clients’ energy and clients carbon generating activities on their behalf. As a sense of scale and market opportunity, Last year, we reported that LaSalle Investment according to a report from the Urban Land Institute2, the total energy bill for all commercial Management was leading a pilot effort in the buildings equals around $170 billion per year in the United States. Furthermore, the overall United States to encourage energy and market value of major commercial retrofit and alteration projects initiated in the U.S. was sustainability improvement upgrades and approximately $41 billion in 2009. savings for assets. The initiative uses a database that tracks short-term payback An integral part of our Energy and Sustainability Services offering is to help clients develop sustainability upgrades for each asset – energy management programs that align with their business strategy and to provide including cost, simple payback, and resulting measurable savings and results. Our holistic approach considers not just how facilities are energy and operational savings. It will serve built, operated and maintained, but also their location and employee behaviors. as a resource for information sharing and client reporting, as well as a means to track Responsible management of energy is the most cost-effective climate change mitigation the broader energy and operational savings strategy, and as more clients (as well as our own people) see economic and environmental achieved by the Firm. By year-end 2011, value in measuring and improving energy usage, then we expect the savings to continue LaSalle Investment Management completed rising. For example, our impact for U.S. clients in 2011 is equivalent to removing over sustainability upgrades worth $6.6 million 115,000 passenger vehicles annually from the road. The following table is a cumulative (ahead of 2010 predictions of $6.3 million), overview of our U.S. energy management achievements since 2007: with an estimated annual cost saving of $2 million (ahead of 2010 predictions of $1.8 million). Over several years, we have also Client energy savings identified a total of $4.7 million in estimated capital improvements on select assets in the Year Energy savings Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission Kilowatt-hour U.S. that have an estimated $1.8 million in (millions) reduction (metric tons CO2) savings (millions) annual cost savings. 2011 $105 587,000 963 2010 $128 563,000 912 Real-time monitoring through IntelliCommand 2009 $100 465,000 836 2008 $95 438,000 790 To support our energy management efforts, we continue to develop industry-leading 2007 $38 133,000 210 technology platforms that help clients reduce their environmental footprint and energy Total $466 2,186,000 3,711 costs. In collaboration with an external Data qualification notes: Energy savings, greenhouse gas emissions reduction and kilowatt-hour savings come technology provider, Jones Lang LaSalle from our year-end ENERGY STAR analysis and are then extrapolated for Jones Lang LaSalle’s U.S. managed introduced IntelliCommandSM in 2011, a portfolio. Greenhouse gas emissions savings have been calculated using eGRID conversion factors. Energy technology-based service that allows 24/7 savings have been calculated using average unit costs. Effects of weather were ignored on the whole, but real-time remote monitoring and control of data from ENERGY STAR is normalized for weather. The $105 million in energy savings achieved during 2011 client facilities to reduce energy consumption resulted in $1.5 billion in value creation for our clients. This value creation figure applies a capitalization rate of around the globe. This is a new way for 7% according to Jones Lang LaSalle’s data on the U.S. investment market and data from Real Capital Analytics, clients to improve efficiency and lower Bloomberg. costs without sacrificing service levels or taking on more risk. Interfacing with building The figures above show an unexpected trend: the monetary savings attributed to reduced automation systems, the smart technology is combined with building operations expertise energy for our clients were less in 2011 than 2010, even though the amount of carbon and and immediate execution to ensure that kWh savings increased. This reflects a flux in the price of energy, where energy savings in equipment runs at peak efficiency. Facilities dollars were less because of cheaper energy. In 2011, we saved more than ten times our are comfortable, safe and sustainable and own carbon footprint by reducing our clients’ emissions by 587,000 tons of CO2, surpassing issues are addressed before they disrupt our goal for four consecutive years. Additionally, we have achieved a potential aversion of operations, helping occupiers and owners to get more out of their buildings. You can find more than 5 million tons of CO2 through our renewables business since 2007. more information here. For further information on our how our Energy and Sustainability Services teams help our clients manage and reduce their own impacts visit this link. 2 Urban Land Institute, New Tools. New Rules: Climate Change, Land Use, and Energy 2010. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 16 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Driving carbon reductions through performance monitoring ENERGY STAR Our carbon and energy benchmarking services in Europe enable us to communicate information on environmental performance to clients and to significantly shape the In the second year of the U.S. Environmental performance of the real estate sector. Since 2006, a 31% reduction in absolute emissions, Protection Agency’s (EPA) ‘Battle of the on a like-for-like basis, has been achieved by members who participate in Jones Lang Buildings’, Jones Lang LaSalle entered 11 client buildings to compete among 245. The LaSalle’s syndicated benchmarking, in part due to the measuring process itself. This work competition is based on energy savings and has enabled us to move the industry forward through our involvement in advising industry emissions reductions. By the end of the bodies such as the European Public Real Estate Association. Our pioneering methodology competition, teams had saved a combined total of more than 240 million kBtu and $5.2 for distinguishing landlord and tenant impacts is now integrated into industry guidelines and million on annual utility bills. participants benefit from this rigorous, industry-leading approach. In 2011 alone, we achieved the following through ENERGY STAR: Renewable energy for our clients ▪ 140 properties with a score of > 75 (compared to 135 in 2010) We continue to advise clients across a range of renewable technologies including ▪ Average rating as of August 2011 was 74 photovoltaic (largely U.S., but increasingly Europe), wind and biomass (both largely UK). (up from 73 in 2010) Our capabilities in renewable energy allow us to provide local and worldwide solutions ▪ 164 ENERGY STAR labeled properties designed to meet each client’s unique objectives. ▪ Number of facilities with a rating was 716 as of August 2011, comprising 150 million The table below provides an overview of the projects in which we have been involved since square feet 2007. In terms of installed and operational or consented renewable projects, total estimated This type of activity led to our achievement of the ‘Sustained Excellence Award’ from GHG emissions averted are 1.22 million metric tons of CO2e per year (an increase from ENERGY STAR in 2012, having received their 0.74 million in 2010). A further 4.01 million metric tons of CO2e per year could be averted ‘Partner of the Year’ award three years in a (a decrease from 5.30 million in 2010), assuming all remaining wind, solar and biomass row. For further information click here. projects that we have advised on achieve planning consent or successful development. Data qualification notes: The last two bullets were misstated in our 2010 CSR Report, given our review of newer information. The first three figures relate to U.S. Markets Property Management (around Client renewable energy 300 properties) where we have direct influence in making energy reductions. The last bullet relates to all properties that Jones Lang LaSalle oversees Estimated averted carbon (metric tons CO2e) of installed renewable energy sources using ENERGY STAR (around 2,100). 2007-2011 Enabling an innovative energy 4,000,000 source for Nokia in California 3,500,000 In deciding to use a breakthrough fuel cell Installed and operational technology to supply 100% of the power 3,000,000 243 MW capacity needs for the server room of its R&D Center Planning and feasibility of Excellence, Nokia needed a solution for 2,500,000 2,265 MW capacity housing four cells that would produce a total 2,000,000 of 800 kilowatts (kW). Nokia and the building’s Consented landlord were unable to find suitable space for 550 MW capacity the system, so Nokia challenged 1,500,000 Jones Lang LaSalle, already a provider of its 1,000,000 project management systems, to provide a solution. 500,000 Our Project and Development Services and Energy and Sustainability Services teams 0 determined that a second floor roof area (an Wind Solar Biomass area not typically considered) would be ideal ................................................................................................................. for both installation and servicing. They then Data qualification notes: The information contained in the chart above relates to our UK and U.S. renewables designed the area for the new fuel cells and advisory services provided between 2007 and 2011. Metric tons CO2e/year have been calculated using a managed the installation; 400 kW went online global emissions factor of 0.585 kg CO2e per kWh (from Siemens' Environmental Portfolio Report based on in 2011. information from the International Energy Agency 2010 and from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Nokia is now taking advantage of the Change). The calculations assume that all installations are fully operational, 24 hours a day and 365 days a technology, which converts high-pressure year, and that the average capacity is 30% for onshore wind and 80% for biomass. They also assume a 1,100 natural gas to value-priced electricity. The kWh per KW capacity per year for solar (this differs from last year's approach where we used a 25% capacity fuel cells also help condition the ‘dirty’ power. factor). The total metric tons CO2e per year averted figure should be read as that which we have contributed to Since the innovative system is considered a through our UK and U.S. renewables advisory services. Jones Lang LaSalle does not own or operate any test site, Nokia has received large rebates renewable energy installations. from the manufacturer and from California, enabling payback of total costs in less than six years and 12% annual cost savings thereafter. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 17 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr The shift in figures from those that we reported in 2010 (which were also cumulative since Jones Lang LaSalle’s global GHG emissions 2007) results from: increased involvement in utility scale projects related to solar; the (total absolute CO2e in metric tons) natural churn of development activity – for example, wind capacity decreased because of some projects not progressing beyond feasibility stage; and, of greatest significance, the cancellation of a 200 MW biomass project by a client. We also changed our calculation methodology by using a different assumption for solar and by applying a global instead of a UK emissions factor. This activity means the total capacity of projects remains nearly identical to that which we reported in 2010, but our estimated averted carbon is slightly less. Jones Lang LaSalle has in-depth experience of existing and emerging renewable technologies, including fuel cell technology. We are constantly developing new tools that can broaden clients’ awareness of technologies and potential applications. For example, our Solar Power Assessment Tool in the U.S. walks interested parties through the various factors that might determine a building’s suitability to solar power, such as property location, rooftop space and rooftop condition. Scope 1 Company-owned vehicles 23% In 2011, a specialist Renewable Energy Capital group was established to help raise (11,281 metric tons CO2e) development capital, identify investment opportunities and provide commercial and financial Scope 1 natural gas 1% advice to clients across every major renewable technology project type. The team, which (559 metric tons CO2e) sits with our EMEA Corporate Finance group, was created in response to both expanding 21% Scope 2 electricity developer requirements for capital and growing investor interest in the sector. It collaborates (10,139 metric tons CO2e) closely with other renewable experts within Jones Lang LaSalle to provide integrated advice Scope 3 business travel 26% to clients throughout the project lifecycle. (12,661 metric tons CO2e) Scope 3 estimated leased building carbon 29% Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance (14,381 metric tons CO2e) ..................................................... Jones Lang LaSalle’s global carbon footprint was approximately 49,000 metric tons CO2e Data qualification notes: Scope 1 (direct emissions) in 2011, compared to 43,800 and 37,500 metric tons CO2e in 2010 and 2009 respectively includes natural gas consumption where Jones Lang (for Scopes 1, 2 and some 3 as seen in the chart below). Although we are disappointed that LaSalle is billed directly and emissions from our absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions increased by 12%, our business growth has Company-owned vehicles. Scope 2 (indirect emissions) includes electricity consumption where outpaced the upward trend of GHG emissions, as our revenue grew by 23% from 2010 to Jones Lang LaSalle is billed directly. Scope 3 (other 2011. Additionally, in the same period, we increased our total GHG emissions by 0.8% per indirect emissions) includes estimated building-related corporate office employee. consumption where Jones Lang LaSalle's landlords obtain and do not sub-meter our use of energy. We therefore estimate consumption based on floor area. Jones Lang LaSalle's global GHG emissions (total absolute CO2e in metric tons) Scope 3 also includes employee business travel. Former King Sturge offices in EMEA (the majority of which are in the UK) are not included in these figures 50,000 due to the 2011 merger. 40,000 Americas Metering project review in Australia Asia Pacific 30,000 EMEA In Jones Lang LaSalle’s Australian operations, the Firm has an energy metering project 20,000 that monitors consumption on a quarterly Corporate office employees: basis of its seven offices. The total energy consumption at Jones Lang LaSalle’s 10,000 2009 12,157 Australian corporate offices was reduced 2010 12,867 by 6.7% in 2011 compared to 2010 levels 0 2011 14,276 (equating to 97 metric tons of CO2e), 2009 2010 2011 achieved through a number of measures, ................................................................................................................. including the metering project. There Data qualification notes: Jones Lang LaSalle's GHG emissions relate to the impact from building-related were notable reductions in Perth (14%) energy consumption and business-related travel. For definition of scopes according to the Greenhouse and Parramatta (10%), and a number of Gas Protocol, see chart on this page. Source of employee count is our people management system, which initiatives have been highlighted by local differs from that of our global financial consolidation system. We have used our people management operations teams to focus on achieving further system to normalize our carbon footprint figures because the disaggregated totals better represent improvements, such as re-establishing an employee count in our corporate offices. Former King Sturge offices in EMEA (the majority of which are in ACT committee in each head office, monthly the UK) are not included in these figures due to the 2011 merger. We have restated our 2009 and 2010 review of action lists generated from ESS GHG emissions figures due to change in emissions factors and methodology. experts, and increasing staff engagement efforts around behavioral changes. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 18 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr The increase in absolute GHG emissions in 2011 was driven primarily by business travel and Company-owned vehicles. Business travel, which represented 26% of known GHG emissions in 2011, was the largest contributor to this increase. We believe this results primarily from greater efforts to capture business travel emissions. Business travel is one of our most challenging areas to reconcile with business objectives, including maintaining active relationships with our clients. We are addressing our emissions from business travel – in part – by promoting the use of video and audio conferencing to reduce the need to travel. Company-owned vehicles are responsible for 23% of our total 2011 carbon footprint. A large majority (84%) of these emissions stem from our Mobile Engineering Services fleet, where absolute emissions have increased by 41% from 2010 to 2011. This is primarily due to business growth; there has been a 31% increase in work orders and a 21% rise in the number of mobile technicians. However, this does not account for the full impact of the 2011 absolute emissions, as an increase of 16% CO2e per technician occurred since 2010. We expect that emissions per technician will improve in future as we remove less fuel-efficient vehicles from our fleet. We have reduced our absolute building-related emissions by 8% or, stated another way, we Dan Probst achieved a 17% reduction in emissions per corporate office employee from 2010 to 2011. “ Global Head of Energy and Sustainability Services Our internal sustainability program, ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’, is likely to have contributed to this reduction, but we have not quantified the impact of this program against these specific indicators. We anticipate that our absolute building-related carbon emissions will rise when we account for the addition of King Sturge offices in our 2012 GHG emissions inventory. The risks of climate change affect the We expect to continually improve building-related carbon emissions per corporate office commercial real estate industry. At employee as we implement further emissions reduction initiatives. However, a large the same time, real estate is a major proportion of our emissions are from estimated leased building carbon (29% of our total contributor to greenhouse gases that GHG emissions). This means we have less direct control over the measurement and contribute to climate change. If we management of this corporate office space, thus requiring us to work more closely with our do not do everything we reasonably landlords to achieve reductions. “ can to reduce our impact on the Reducing our own carbon footprint planet today, we will regret it tomorrow. Our Carbon Footprint Network, a component of ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’, has continued its efforts around carbon data collection and how to encourage reductions in those offices with poor energy performance. Our internal proprietary web-based Portfolio Energy and Environmental Reporting System (PEERS) allows for entry of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on a site-by-site basis. Integral to PEERS are the carbon equivalencies, unit conversions and local emissions rates that comply with the GHG Protocol and other tracking requirements. We documented over 170 ACT initiatives to reduce energy use and GHG emissions in our offices during 2011, which contributed to limiting our carbon footprint to 49,000 metric tons CO2e. These types of initiatives have been implemented each year since 2008, many of which have grown to be a part of our standard operating procedures; some have therefore been excluded from our 2011 figure. Country Local examples of GHG reduction initiatives from 2011 Australia We promoted energy efficiency through an employee awareness campaign together with an upgrade to energy efficient lighting and automatic lighting controls. Canada We reduce transport of documents by employing electronic delivery where possible or couriering documents ‘batched’ rather than ad hoc. Ireland We undertook a Sustainability Property Assessment and Energy Assessment on our Dublin corporate office to measure our performance and to identify areas for improvement. In 2011 there were several enhancements to the ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ program and our internal energy management. Firstly, Jones Lang LaSalle again supported Earth Hour across the world. Secondly, we reviewed the state of our video and web conferencing capabilities. 71% of survey respondents have these facilities in their country (representing 88% of our corporate offices). Of those with the capability, 61% of our corporate offices globally ran an awareness campaign related to video and/or web conferencing. These efforts are paying off. From early 2008 to end of Q2 2011, use of Live Meeting and InterCall has increased by 772% and 75% respectively. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 19 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Video and web conferencing Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives in the Americas Percentage of corporate offices with an awareness campaign to promote video conferencing and/or web conferencing where the capability existed in 2011 From energy use to travel, a wide range of initiatives have been established throughout 100% Jones Lang LaSalle’s corporate offices that 90% are designed to drive down the Firm’s CO2 emissions both inside and outside the work 80% place, including: 70% No awareness ▪ Energy – In most offices, the temperature 60% campaign for video and/or is set to 72oF (22.2oC) in summer and 68oF 50% web conferencing (20oC) in winter; and the HVAC system is 40% Awareness campaign programmed to run during core business 30% for video and/or hours only. Additionally, occupancy 20% web conferencing sensors are installed and compact fluorescent or energy efficient bulbs are 10% used throughout every office. 0 Americas Asia Pacific EMEA LaSalle Investment ▪ Signage programs – ‘Switch off the light’ Management signs are in every meeting room and work ................................................................................................................. station, while ‘switch off the monitor’ signs Data qualification notes: This chart illustrates the percentage of corporate offices with an awareness campaign to promote video and/or web conferencing where the capability existed at country level (with the are nearby to desktop computers. All exception of China and the Southern Cone). Conferencing facilities may not be available in every office printers are labeled with ‘think before you within a country, therefore we would not necessarily expect a promotional campaign in all offices that are print’. indicated under 'No awareness campaign'. Former King Sturge offices in EMEA (the majority of which are in the UK) are not included in these figures due to the 2011 merger. ▪ Café – All vending machines have the ‘energy miser’ feature and when equipment needs to be replaced, Finally, we learned that 10% of our corporate offices worldwide procure renewable energy ENERGY STAR certified equipment is (see data qualification notes for how this is defined). Much like the advice we give to clients, purchased. we take advantage of opportunities to green our energy supply, thus lessening the impact of our own operations. ▪ Print center – Every printer has a power save feature and runs a maintenance program when started. Procurement of renewable energy in Jones Lang LaSalle's corporate offices in 2011 ▪ Bathrooms Occupancy sensors are Region Percentage of corporate offices Total number of surveyed installed to reduce lighting in areas that that procure renewable energy corporate offices have less activity. Americas 6% 104 ▪ Computers/monitors – All are set with Asia Pacific 6% 69 power save features. EMEA 19% 74 ▪ Commuting and travel – Employees LaSalle Investment Management 11% 9 are encouraged to travel only when it is necessary to fulfill client requirements and Total 10% 256 to also telecommute, with a manager’s Data qualification notes: Renewable energy is defined in accordance with the Greenprint definition of approval. grid-certified renewable energy, where the supply is certified as renewable according to nationally applicable regulations. For example, in the UK, the current best available certification is whether the supply is Climate Change Levy (CCL) exempt. The CCL is a government-imposed levy chargeable on non-domestic supplies of electricity. Note that ‘good quality combined heat and power’, despite using fossil fuels, is CCL exempt. The Total savings from IT sustainability program majority of offices shown as renewable in this figure are from the UK and covered by this CCL exemption of ‘good quality combined heat and power’. since 2008 Greening our IT 2011 cumulative We have a particularly strong program when it comes to incorporating sustainability into Cost savings $1,685,384 our IT practices. As is the case with all large professional services firms, IT is a significant CO2 savings (metric tons) 15,286 contributor to our overall carbon footprint3. Since January 1, 2008, nearly 520 servers have been eliminated. During this period, 2,250 PCs have also been redeployed (instead of making Data qualification notes: Total savings are based on new purchases), resulting in an estimated 3,215 metric tons of CO2 savings and $450,200 in cost of power at $0.10/kWh. Both cost savings and carbon energy cost savings. We have procurement policies in place to ensure new PCs and laptops savings are cumulative since January 1, 2008. 2011 figures have high energy efficiency credentials (e.g. ENERGY STAR) and, in the Americas, all PCs include only Q1 and Q2 data. Carbon savings refer to are energy efficient models. Estimated CO2 savings from these actions and others (see the some activity that we do not track in our carbon footprint chart for total figures) is equivalent to the energy use of 1,200 homes for one year. e.g. reuse/redeploy of equipment that achieves savings based on what the manufacturer avoids emitting through 3 According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, office equipment accounts for 16% of energy use in a typical production of less equipment. commercial office building Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback Client service excellence Jones Lang LaSalle is committed to maintaining a corporate culture that puts its clients first and embraces strong principles of business and professional ethics in everything we do. 21 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Client service excellence introduction CSR target (2011 – 2012) Jones Lang LaSalle is a client-driven organization. We aim to be a leader in the real estate sector in all markets where we operate. Our globally-coordinated investments in research, On-going ▪ Achieve external recognition for sustainability technology, people and innovation, combined with our span of worldwide offices, enable us to leadership develop, share and continually implement best practices from across our organization. These A review of progress against these CSR targets is attributes allow us to promote a culture of internal communication, connectivity and integrity on pages 47-48 of this Report. that is unparalleled in our industry. As a result, we are able to deliver the same consistently high levels of service and operational excellence wherever our clients need them. Jones Lang LaSalle recognized as a leading real estate advisor Client service excellence In the U.S., real estate journal Commercial Achievements Challenges Property Executive’s annual Environmental Sensitivity Index, which ranks U.S. Client excellence in sustainability services As we strive to embed sustainability into our core multi-family and commercial real estate Recognized as a leading sustainability real estate real estate service offering, we are faced with the companies according to their level of advisor by independent analyst Verdantix and as challenge of ensuring our employees have the involvement in sustainable real estate a ‘Greenest Company’ by real estate journal right credentials; are trained properly; and activities, Jones Lang LaSalle achieved 3rd ‘Commercial Property Executives’ understand the full extent of our sustainable position and the ‘platinum’ strata in 2011. service offering. This ranked us as the highest performing Increased number of dedicated sustainability professionals by approximately 34% since 2009 During times of economic downtown, there is a real estate advisor within the Index. The tendency within corporations generally to veer 2011 survey measured actual involvement as Ethics away from ethical behavior. This is compounded well as anticipated future ventures, scoring Named to the Ethisphere Institute’s list of the in our situation as cultures around the world ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ for the fourth each firm based on the number of owned merge through our growing business, but on the consecutive year or managed buildings that were certified by whole, our ethical track record has proven Ethics Inside® certification renewed by the resilient during a tough year despite a slight LEED® or other systems, number of staff Ethisphere Institute increase in the total number of ethics with specialized training, and plans for future Investigated a total of 133 integrity concerns, with investigations. We need to maintain our reputation ‘green’ projects. Go to this site for more 113 cases resulting in corrective action for integrity since it is an important differentiator information. for us. Thought leadership and innovation In the UK, Jones Lang LaSalle was Produced 38 thought leadership papers related to recognized as a market leader for sustainable sustainability real estate advice in a report by independent Extended the da Vinci Awards to EMEA and analyst Verdantix. The report was based on received more than 130 submissions globally interviews with an independent panel of real Became a lead sponsor to the Carbon Disclosure estate leaders and compared 17 real estate Project (CDP) Cities program advisors on over 40 sustainability criteria. The results showed that 60% of the expert panel were certain or likely to mandate Jones Lang Providing high-quality services to clients LaSalle to advise on the sustainability aspects of real estate projects, while 60% also named Our investment in sustainability resources, as shown by the growing number of dedicated Jones Lang LaSalle as the advisor that came Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) staff and tools, demonstrates our commitment to mind first when hearing the words ‘energy to providing clients with industry-leading expertise in emerging subject areas. In 2011, we and climate change’. increased the number of those working on sustainability and energy-related projects by approximately 13 people. This reflects the rising number of mandates from clients, as seen Energy and Sustainability Services by the 14% increase in ESS revenue, and the fact that sustainability is increasingly critical (ESS) clients to business leaders today. The overall percentage increase from 2009 to 2011 for global Region 2010 2011 ESS staff is 34%, with Asia Pacific undergoing the highest increase at 190%. Americas 30 158 However, at Jones Lang LaSalle, we also consider sustainability to be part of every employee’s role and responsibilities, so thousands more are actively tackling sustainability Asia Pacific 47 43 challenges. The same principle applies to ESS revenue; these figures do not reflect all of EMEA 119 133 Jones Lang LaSalle’s energy and sustainability activities due to a continual shift toward integrating sustainability into our core real estate offering. As an example, the 2010 Total 196 334 EMEA figure does not account for Energy Services revenue, which flows to our Integrated Data qualification notes: LaSalle Investment Management Facilities Management business. is excluded from this table due to differences in sustainability service provision. The significant increase in the number of Americas clients results from a different methodology, as well as an expanded range of ESS services to a wider group of clients. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 22 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr An overview of our Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) team Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) revenue Number of ESS Number of ESS Number of ESS Region Region 2010 (million $) 2011 (million $) employees (2009) employees (2010) employees (2011) Americas 6.7 6.9 Americas 42 48 50 Asia Pacific 3.7 4.2 Asia Pacific 10 16 29 EMEA 6.0 7.8 EMEA 44 52 50 Global 0.6 0.5 Total 96 116 129 Total 17.0 19.3 Percentage of Data qualification notes: The Americas 2010 employees figure includes 30 dedicated ESS employees plus 18 0.59% 0.54% global revenue employees who work on an account team (and are not dedicated solely to ESS). The 2010 and 2011 EMEA figure includes employees from other business lines (e.g. Project and Development Services PDS) who spend part of their time working on ESS projects (e.g. LEED® projects), which is under ten employees for both years. However, Real estate development advisory the 2011 EMEA figure in particular does not capture a number of additional professionals who might spend a small along a high-speed rail corridor part of their time working on ESS projects. LaSalle Investment Management is excluded from this table due to differences in sustainability service provision. The Indian Ministry of Railways (MoR) appointed Mott MacDonald to conduct a preTo bolster our continued commitment to leading the industry in sustainability, we realigned feasibility study of the high speed rail services our Americas Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) in July 2011 to integrate our energy along the Delhi-Agra-Lucknow-Varanasi-Patna and sustainability professionals into our business units. This responded to clients’ needs for corridor in India. In 2011, Jones Lang LaSalle more direct access to ESS skills and advice through established business portals and, at started its role as sub-consultant, providing demand estimation for real estate development the same time, has enhanced the Firm’s capacity to deliver a more proactive, responsive along the proposed corridor. In our role, we and seamless service. will profile regional centers; identify locations for real estate developments nearby railway This shift reflects the continual progression toward integrating sustainability services into stations; assess the impact of these locations; our core real estate offering. The table below indicates the ‘major’ energy and sustainability and conduct the product mix, phasing and mandates we received during 2011 and what percentage were jointly delivered by ESS and financial analysis of the real estate component. another team, such as Project and Development Services. Joint delivery of major energy and sustainability mandates in 2011 Region Percentage that were jointly delivered Number of mandates Americas 89% 18 Asia Pacific 50% 8 EMEA 27% 11 Total 62% 37 Data qualification notes: Mandate refers to the number of clients that commissioned sustainability projects. Major is defined as EITHER a mandate over $100,000 in fees OR a mandate providing cutting-edge/first-time services. LaSalle Investment Management is excluded from this table due to differences in sustainability service provision. Conor Riffle “ Focusing on sustainability in the city landscape Head of CDP Cities In May 2011, Jones Lang LaSalle became a lead sponsor to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Cities program, a long-term initiative to improve sustainability in the world’s largest cities, and thereby enhance their economic viability. CDP is delighted to welcome Jones Lang LaSalle as a partner on the With the program, CDP is adapting its universally respected reporting system to provide a program, with its knowledge in property global platform for city governments to disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and other sustainability, global reach and strong sustainability-related information. Jones Lang LaSalle is using its global expertise to help track record in environmental action. refine the CDP Cities reporting criteria and to provide education and consultation to cities as Land use and the built environment are they look to tackle the sustainability challenge. important considerations for sustainable “ To promote this partnership, Jones Lang LaSalle initiated a virtual ‘City Solutions’ team cities and Jones Lang LaSalle brings during 2011. We recognize the growing opportunity to help real estate investors, developers world-class expertise in these areas. and occupiers unlock value in the 250 cities worldwide that will account for 45% of GDP Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 23 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr growth over the next ten years. As we already operate in half of these cities, our strong track record will help our clients navigate the challenges of an urbanizing world. As an example, Jones Lang LaSalle is working on two out of the six high speed rail corridors, as part of India’s plan to connect major cities with high speed trains, thus reducing air travel The World’s Most Ethical companies and increasing the use of remote areas as more people could work in less crowded and outperform S&P 500 lower-cost locations. Ethisphere has demonstrated that ethical Using technology to advance our sustainability services offer business practice is correlated with better financial performance. The equity Jones Lang LaSalle has created in-house online technology platforms to support its returns from the 2011 World’s Most Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS), such as OneView Energy and Sustainability Ethical Companies have significantly and Analytics (OVESA). OVESA helps us manage an ever-increasing volume of sustainability consistently outperformed the S&P 500 Index data on behalf of our clients around the globe, and enables us to monitor and report over a multi-year period (see chart below). impacts for 3,700 properties from 53 clients (as of year-end). This, among other examples The fact that ethical behavior promotes of technology platforms such as Portfolio Energy and Environmental Reporting System, the best financial performance indicates its Environmental Sustainability Platform and IntelliCommand, demonstrates our global importance as the foundation for our future provision of technology solutions. success and sustainability as an organization. But as we know from the news, it is also ‘Ethics Everywhere’ something that just a few people can ruin for everybody else, so it is critical that each and Our Code of Ethics (see the Code here) outlines our commitment to maintaining the every one of us, as well as anyone we hire to highest standards of ethics and integrity in all of our business dealings. We are determined do work for us or our clients, adheres to the to enhance the global reputation that we have established for ethical conduct, a reputation letter and spirit of our Codes, every day. recognized by the Ethisphere Institute, which for the fourth year in a row has named Jones Lang LaSalle in its ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ list. Percentage returns – World’s Most We also take pride in how our employees perceive our commitment to ethical business Ethical Companies vs. S&P 500 decisions and conduct. In part, this is due to our focus on ethics training and education. 50% In 2011 we gave in-person training to 3,753 employees (or roughly 8% of staff) in 40% anti-corruption policies and procedures. Central to promoting our ethical conduct is the 30% requirement for our employees to reaffirm their commitment to our Code of Ethics when 20% 10% submitting their annual performance objectives, which is part of the process for determining 0% bonuses. -10% -20% WME Ethics also extends to our compliance with local and international laws, including those -30% -40% S&P 500 relating to competition, the environment, marketing, communications, advertising, -50% promotions and customer privacy. During the past six years, there have been no legal 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 actions taken against Jones Lang LaSalle for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or ..................................................... monopoly practices. Furthermore, there have been no significant monetary fines or Data qualification notes: The 'World's Most Ethical Index', which consists of all publicly traded non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations (including businesses on Ethisphere’s 2011 'World’s Most environmental laws). Ethical Companies' list, consistently outperformed the S&P 500 Index from 2007-2011. Jones Lang We are again disclosing the results from our ‛Ethics Everywhere’ Annual Report that we LaSalle is not included within the S&P 500 Index, already provide to all colleagues within the Firm. The Report discloses the nature and but is included in the 'World's Most Ethical results of the allegations of unethical conduct that we have investigated internally (see Companies' list. ‛Ethics Everywhere’ data summary – page 57). In 2011, we conducted investigations on a total of 133 integrity concerns, of which 113 led Thought leadership in ethics and to disciplinary or other actions. Our investigations resulted in 50 employment terminations, corporate governance an indication of our commitment to take significant action in order to protect and promote an ethical environment. Members of our Board of Directors and our senior management have spoken on these The number of investigations we conducted during 2011 increased by 73% over 2010, while topics in various different programs and the total number of employees increased by 13%. Our ability to substantiate the allegations have published articles on related topics. An that were raised increased to a historically high 77%. The number of investigations we example is the article our Chief Ethics Officer conducted as a percentage of total staff has actually decreased compared to when we published in Ethisphere magazine entitled ‘The Secret to the Perfect Ethics Program is began tracking our data globally in 2005. in a Bottega Veneta Handbag’ (see article here). Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 24 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Promoting innovation The Americas da Vinci Awards At Jones Lang LaSalle, we continue to produce successful results for our clients through the delivery of innovative and creative business solutions. We launched our da Vinci Awards in 2003 to inspire the best new and differentiating ideas among our employees. The The da Vinci Review Committee in the Awards program drives collaboration and showcases the expertise of Jones Lang LaSalle’s Americas evaluated 93 submissions in 2011, people; individuals and teams are rewarded with cash prizes, and winning innovations are looking for breakthrough ideas that can help presented to senior management. win new business for the Firm, be shaped into a new service offering, increase revenue Based on the success of the Americas program, the Awards were launched in EMEA in or save money. We identified eight winning 2011. The Awards drew an impressive 40 submissions, with five winners that demonstrated ideas, including: IntelliCommand (a powerful great originality and innovation from Spain, Switzerland, the UK and Pan-EMEA teams. new service that combines smart technology with building operations expertise to provide Shaping policy from the front real-time remote monitoring and control of facilities); the Renewable Energy Site Tool As a diverse global organization whose constituencies will inevitably have very different (which dramatically reduces the time needed views of social and other issues, our political and lobbying activities are intentionally to identify ideal land and roof top sites for minimal and limited to supporting specific industry issues that would clearly benefit solar development); and Waste Watchers (a our business and our shareholders. As any lobbying efforts are managed on a highly new program that enhances the Jones Lang decentralized basis, we do not centrally track relevant expenditures, but we do not believe LaSalle platforms for project management they are significant. and facility management with enhanced Regional policy activity, as shown in a few local examples, includes the U.S. support of sustainable waste management capabilities). Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE), a local government program that provides property owners with loans for energy efficient retrofits that are repaid through property tax bills over time. We contribute to several other initiatives, including PACENow, Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy (BICEP) and the Energy Future Coalition. We are Enabling energy efficiency financing also active in leading research and enabling finance through discussions with banks and financial services to move the energy efficiency financing agenda forward (see case study Existing buildings will continue to have on the right). a large impact on energy consumption Additionally, the CEO of Jones Lang LaSalle in the UK, Andrew Gould, joined the and GHG emissions. According to this Department for Business, Innovation & Skills new ‘Green Construction Board’ in 2011. World Economic Forum (WEF) Report, it is Drawn from senior UK business and government representatives, and co-chaired by the predicted that over 50% of today’s existing Minister of State for Business and Enterprise, the Board pursues opportunities for growth buildings will still be used in 2050. The Report presented by a sustainable construction and property sector. also states that there are potential energy savings of 20% to 40% across the existing global building stock, making the retrofit Industry collaboration market essential. We believe that financing is We have close relationships with many leading industry organizations including, importantly, a major obstacle for energy retrofits; we are numerous local green building councils worldwide that actively contribute to influencing therefore working with industry and public public policy. In 2011, we recorded approximately 18 industry initiatives regionally, which policy institutions to find a solution. does not include EMEA’s activity and may also not include the following global industry Jones Lang LaSalle was a highly active bodies: participant in the WEF Retrofit Finance ▪ Carbon Disclosure Project for Cities (see description on page 22) & Investing project through contributing research and expertise. Our CEO, Colin Dyer, ▪ CoreNet Global chaired the steering board, while our Head ▪ European Public Real Estate Association (see details on the next page) of ESS, Dan Probst, participated as a key ▪ Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark member of the working group. The resulting ▪ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) position paper, published in October 2011, ▪ Greenprint (more information on page 50) addresses the opportunities and barriers to ▪ United Nations Global Compact (see how we meet the standards on page 60) success. It also provides recommendations on public policy mechanisms to enable ▪ United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (learn more on page 50) industry participation. ▪ Urban Land Institute Sustainability thought leadership and research We invest heavily in research to guide the real estate investment strategy of our clients. Some 300 research professionals at Jones Lang LaSalle cover market and economic conditions around the world. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 25 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Sustainability is a key focus and in 2011, we published a total of 38 thought leadership Advising on EPRA’s sustainability papers related to sustainability, including seven key global outputs: reporting Best Practices ▪ Global Sustainability Perspective – 3 editions (view this link for most recent edition) Recommendations ▪ Greenprint Volume 2 ▪ Green Blog As expert advisor to the European Public ▪ CoreNet Global/Jones Lang LaSalle ‘Corporate Occupier Sustainability Survey’ Real Estate Association (EPRA), Jones Lang LaSalle has been instrumental (see survey results here). in the development of Best Practices ▪ Global Reporting Initiative Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement Recommendations (BPRs) on sustainability (GRI CRESS) reporting. EPRA, the trade body that represents Europe’s listed real estate sector, The Jones Lang LaSalle Green Blog, launched in 2010 to comment on topical issues, has launched the BPRs in September 2011 continued to draw large number of readers. In 2011, we posted 158 blogs (a 22% increase to assist the sector in their sustainability over 2010) and established an audience of 41,000 unique readers (see Green Blog disclosure efforts. Jones Lang LaSalle has here). We also have an established Facebook presence (view this link). published a Technical Guidance Note in In 2011, our sustainability experts also contributed to sustainability-focused books, such collaboration with EPRA in order to help as ‘Six Sigma for Sustainability: How Organizations Design and Deploy Winning companies understand the BPRs on sustainability reporting through practical Environmental Programs’ and ‘Sustainable Investment in Real Estate’. This type of examples. EPRA has retained us as its expert activity shows a deep understanding – stemming from real world experience and expertise advisor for awards that will be based on the – of critical sustainability issues and their impact on the property sector. BPRs. At a regional level, our research papers ranged from topics such as ‘Green Buildings Driving Employee Productivity’ in Australia to ‘Taking the charge: Electric cars are gaining momentum, spurring demand for charging stations at commercial properties’ in the Number of sustainability thought Americas to ‘Navigating through sustainability reporting standards’ in EMEA. leadership outputs We also launched the ‘Offices 2020’ campaign in October 2011. This thought leadership Region 2010 2011 initiative addresses issues that will have a significant impact on the offices sector over the next 10 years, helping investors, developers and occupiers better understand future trends Americas 14 16 that will influence key decisions. The research program also provides interesting insights on sustainability. With 83% of the industry positioning sustainability as a priority for office Asia Pacific 4 9 real estate, investors must act now to future-proof their assets, and occupiers will need to EMEA 2 6 consider the higher operational costs of less sustainable buildings. Legislation, such as that enacted in Europe, can be the real game-changer, as it forces occupiers and investors to Global 8 7 adapt their office buildings. See our research outputs here for analysis on future trends Total 28 38 and practical tips to guide occupiers and investors through their challenges. Data qualification notes: Thought leadership outputs can External recognition for sustainability expertise and presence be Jones Lang LaSalle branded publications, including ‘On Point’, ‘Advance’ or ‘Pulse’. The ‘Global’ category In addition to being ranked as one of the ‘Greenest Companies in Real Estate’ as well as was not included in the 2010 CSR Report, thus the total a market leader in sustainable real estate advice, and among the many other sustainability number of thought leadership papers has been restated awards received globally and across each region, Jones Lang LaSalle was also coined for 2010. LaSalle Investment Management is excluded a ‘Brand Winner’ by public media monitoring specialist Repskan. Under our direction, from this table due to differences in sustainability service Repskan monitored the real estate industry with a system that tracked keywords such as provision. ‘sustainability’ and ‘green building’ around the world, beginning the review in Q4 2011. From a review of over 426,000 total mentions, Jones Lang LaSalle had the most mentions – or 48% share of voice – among major real estate firms. This serves as an indicator related to Global Sustainability Perspective the authority and presence we have in the industry in relation to our sustainability expertise. In December 2009, Jones Lang LaSalle launched the Global Sustainability Perspective (GSP), a web-based publication that provides quarterly updates on sustainability trends in real estate to over 40,000 clients around the world. Our aspiration is for the GSP to become the primary platform for energy and sustainability intelligence and thought leadership in the real estate sector. The GSP had 23,500 unique website page views in 2011, resulting in it being ranked in the top 20 most accessed parts of the global Jones Lang LaSalle corporate website. To see our latest GSP go to our website. Data qualification notes: Share of voice is calculated as a percentage out of the total mentions of the 11 brands above, which are 3,204 mentions. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback Green buildings Green buildings are more than just energy efficient and low carbon. They are sensitive to local habitats, they protect the health and well-being of building users and they use sustainably sourced and manufactured materials. As a world leader in real estate, the success of Jones Lang LaSalle is closely entwined with the evolution of the green building agenda. Image reference: 420 George Street in Sydney is an A grade office building with 5 Star Green Star – Office Design (v2) rating. Jones Lang LaSalle’s strong connection with the project started with the sale of the site in 2006 to the current owners, Fortius Funds Management and APPF and continued as the leasing and managing agent. Jones Lang LaSalle has exhibited its commitment to ‘walking the talk’ on sustainable working environments, having recently moved its State head office into the building, in a fit-out targeting a 5 Star Green Star Office Interiors (v1) rating. This image shows a team table of the fit-out, where the layout is designed to maximize natural light and several of the 500 plants used throughout the project are shown. 27 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Green buildings introduction CSR targets (2011 – 2012) While our focus on green buildings is predominantly on our clients’ real estate portfolios, we are also committed to ensuring that our own office space has the smallest possible impact Achieved on the environment. The following section highlights some of our efforts in regard to green ▪ Achieved 1,000 energy and sustainability accredited professionals (LEED®, CEM, BREEAM, Green Star, buildings in 2011 and how we embed sustainability aspects into various stages of the etc.) by the end 2012 property lifecycle. On-going ▪ Assess new corporate accommodation using local Green buildings summary green building standards and incorporate green fit-out standards into all new offices Achievements Challenges ▪ Conduct Jones Lang LaSalle Green Tenant Module for all U.S. corporate offices greater than 10,000 Building certifications and assessments One main challenge is to fully understand and square feet by end 2011 Our ESS teams worldwide implemented energy articulate the impact we have at all stages of the ▪ Revise office standards to move toward a and sustainability improvements on 1,027 existing property lifecycle across our business. best-in-class occupancy strategy buildings and 31 new buildings Stakeholders often ask about the return from our A review of progress against these CSR targets is on investment in sustainability, which we can pages 47-48 of this Report. Achieved 1,075 accredited energy and quantify to a certain extent, but a lot of the value sustainability professionals, surpassing our target stems from intangible benefits such as increased to achieve 1,000 by year-end 2012 reputation for ourselves and our clients. We Achieved LEED® Platinum certification for our share with the wider industry this struggle of Property lifecycle Hong Kong office with the highest score for any assigning value related to sustainability initiatives. LEED® Commercial Interiors project As a Company that prides itself on green building & Planning Occupied corporate offices with a green building certifications and expertise, in some cases we Design standard across 6% of our global portfolio and in have faced a lost opportunity for greening our 17% of new offices own corporate space. Although several Sustainable retrofits outstanding initiatives took place in 2011, such as Sale or Dem uction nstr Helped the Empire State Building achieve LEED® our occupation of the highest LEED® Platinum Gold certification for Existing Buildings building in our Hong Kong office, we are working oliti Co Tetris UK committed to applying green fit-out to apply this philosophy more holistically across on standards (RICS Ska Rating) into all fit-outs our space where relevant. Green leases Increased our use of green lease language in our nt occupied space, resulting in 39% of our tenancies me with green lease conditions ge Re ur na a b is &M f hm ent a ti o n Our Real Estate Services and the property lifecycle Occup Our green building services continue to differ across the world as we prioritize the concerns of our local clients and communities. However, a constant in each region is that the lifecycle LaSalle Investment Management: of a building is addressed through our services – beginning with the design and planning, A ‘roadmap’ for sustainability through to construction, occupation, refurbishment, and ending with a sale (see diagram on right). This ‘property lifecycle’ underpins our green building services and, in many ways, LaSalle Investment Management worked everything we do that is sustainability-related at Jones Lang LaSalle. with Jones Lang LaSalle’s Energy and Sustainability team in the Americas to identify opportunities for operational savings to Global Real Estate Services and our Sustainability Capabilities obtain sustainability certification for 14 multiresidential assets. A performance evaluation Advisory, Consulting and Other Services Leasing Services was conducted using Green Globes, an ▪ Environmentally focused portfolio and ▪ Green leasing assessment and rating system operated by occupancy planning ▪ Prospective building assessments the Green Building Initiative in the U.S. ▪ Sustainability program development and ▪ Green lease performance management and A baseline assessment was performed on implementation administration each building to identify strengths; it also ▪ Carbon tracking and reporting ▪ Green space interior design standards recommended measures to improve tenant ▪ Employee engagement programs well-being, to reduce utility costs, and to Capital Markets and Hotels Project and Development Services increase overall performance scores. The ▪ Green building valuation assessments ▪ New high performance building development data for each property was then compiled into ▪ Sustainability focused building performance ▪ Existing building retrofits a Portfolio Report, which provided the basis assessments ▪ Green tenant fit-outs for developing an aggressive action plan. Six months later, the buildings increased their Investment Management Property and Facilities Management Green Globes scores significantly by an ▪ Portfolio sustainability program management ▪ Energy and Sustainability Services portfolio program management average of 17% with eight of the nineteen ▪ Sustainability performance measurement, buildings increasing their Green Globes rating. tracking and reporting Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 28 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr ESS service networks Helping one of the world’s most We will not achieve sustainable real estate unless sustainability is incorporated at every famous office buildings achieve stage of the property lifecycle and throughout our Real Estate Services. Our Energy LEED® Gold and Sustainability Services (ESS) Board addresses this goal, featuring four service During its 80th anniversary year, the Empire networks designed to develop globally-consistent service offerings with appropriate regional State Building in New York received a LEED® variations. You can find details of these service networks and how each complements the Gold for Existing Buildings certification. The property lifecycle in our 2010 CSR Report. award is further recognition of the $550 million ReBuilding program, in which Jones Lang Leading the way with green building certification and improvements LaSalle played a pivotal role as program manager for the energy retrofit, as well as the We have a strong track record in helping owners and occupiers achieve targeted LEED® LEED® feasibility assessment and application levels, and in several cases our teams have helped clients attain certification levels beyond process. their original goals. By the end of 2011, we had completed over 250 LEED® projects in the The LEED® Gold certification follows the U.S. through our advisory services over a decade. creation of a transparent, quantifiable process for economically justified energy efficient Other successes in 2011 included improving the sustainability of several buildings, such as retrofits. The analytical model is nonmanaging the LEED® certification process for Yahoo!’s California headquarters, where we proprietary and is being replicated at other achieved the first-ever LEED® Existing Buildings: Operations & Maintenance (EBOM) Gold properties around the world. The success of certification for a multi-building campus. This project sets precedents for certifying large the Empire State Building has spurred a new campuses to LEED® EBOM, while also resulting in a high average ENERGY STAR score of focus by governments and the real estate industry on energy efficiency retrofits. 88 and significant operational savings. The retrofit will reduce the building’s energy We have implemented energy and sustainability improvements in 1,058 new and existing consumption by more than 38% and should buildings in 2011 (up from 442 in 2010), of which 97% relate to existing buildings. This save $4.4 million in energy costs annually. reflects our service capabilities and demonstrates the extent to which the sustainability The improvements will also reduce carbon challenge sits within the current built environment. The substantial increase in number of emissions by an estimated 105,000 metric buildings does not reflect a proportional increase in revenue; instead, it shows a change tons over 15 years. in recording methodology (Asia Pacific) and a proactive push to include more managed properties in ENERGY STAR (Americas). The following table summarizes our green building and retrofit activities. World Green Building Week Sustainability improvements through Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) teams In September 2011, Jones Lang LaSalle participated in World Green Building Week. Region Existing buildings New buildings Drawing attention to the importance of creating more sustainable buildings and communities, Americas 716 12 Jones Lang LaSalle marked the week with varied events throughout its regions. Asia Pacific 242 15 Our Green Blog received over 20 posts from EMEA 69 4 colleagues around the world, giving insights Total 1,027 31 on issues such as rating systems in Brazil and productivity gains in Australia. Data qualification notes: Sustainability improvements include recommendations resulting from an energy assessment, Sustainable Property Assessment survey, Green Globes assessment, LEED® gap assessment or In the U.S., at the Clinton Global Initiative within an energy performance management program. LaSalle Investment Management is excluded from this table annual meeting, the Firm was recognized due to differences in sustainability service provision. as a key participant in a project to reduce energy use in commercial tenant spaces. We are working to better understand our impact related to the above; these figures Among a number of Company speakers at U.S. sustainability events, Lauralee Martin, significantly underrepresent our total activity, as they show only what has been formally the Firm’s global COO and CFO, spoke at the recorded. Meeting of Minds conference, an international gathering of more than 200 leaders, which Tetris Projects applies sustainability best practice to fit-outs explored the innovations that will enable cities to become more sustainable. Tetris Projects, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jones Lang LaSalle, is a provider of tailored ‘turnkey’ fit-out and refurbishment projects for clients across Europe. Tetris UK is committed Andrew Gould, our UK CEO, delivered the keynote address in the UK Green Building to the Royal Institution of Charted Surveyors (RICS) Ska Rating methodology to ensure Council’s launch event. In the Netherlands, sustainability best practice is integrated consistently into all its fit-outs. Ska provides a the Firm held its 20th annual real estate recognized and robust methodology. It ensures that a wide range of sustainability issues symposium, giving its “green brick” award to the are addressed, including resource efficiency, waste management and responsible material most sustainable Dutch investor. procurement. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 29 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Tetris UK will apply the Ska methodology to assess all future projects which will include its Jones Lang LaSalle achieves own RICS-certified Ska Assessor being able to award fit-outs an industry-respected highest LEED® Platinum for CI certification (Bronze, Silver or Gold rating). In 2011 we achieved LEED® Platinum for our Training our employees on green building trends Hong Kong office at Three Pacific Place and set a new standard for the highest number Jones Lang LaSalle’s Sustainability University educates our people with technical expertise, of points of any LEED® Commercial Interiors which includes presentations from subject matter experts on green building topics and (CI) certified project. trends. The University focuses on promoting the delivery of services to our clients such Our LEED® CI Platinum certification was a as LEED® certification projects and Green Globes portfolio sustainability management. result of collaborative efforts from our Project Jones Lang LaSalle has already surpassed its goal of achieving 1,000 professionals with and Development Services team and the LEED® and other energy and sustainability designations by the end of 2012. We reached Firm’s Engineering and Operations Solutions 1,075 energy and sustainability accredited professionals (or 1,171 accreditations) by the team, together with the vendor, M Moser Associates. end of 2011, up from 624 professionals at year-end 2010, demonstrating our commitment to lead the real estate industry in sustainability. The initiative has expanded the reach of Developing green buildings not only provides environmentally friendly premises, but also sustainability accredited professionals to 29 countries. Across all regions, our Project and financial benefits, as green buildings are Development Services/Construction divisions added the most professionals. designed to consume fewer resources leading to lower operating and maintenance Number of energy and sustainability accreditations costs. The project resulted in a 13% reduction Accreditation type 2010 2011 in energy consumption per square foot. 585 906 After seven months, there was also a 44% LEED® (U.S. and World) reduction in absenteeism. Although there Green Star (Australia) 10 94 are other factors contributing to this number, a healthier workplace is one of the biggest Green Globes (Canada) 54 73 factors in enhancing our productivity. Association of Energy Engineers: Certified Energy Manager (Global) Not recorded 31 Association of Energy Engineers: Other AEE accreditations (Global) Not recorded 20 Other accreditations 1 16 NABERS Energy (Australia) 9 12 BREEAM (UK and Europe) 1 10 AIEMA (UK) 5 9 Total 665 1,171 Data qualification notes: The total accreditations exceeds the number of accredited professionals because some professionals have multiple credentials. There were increased efforts to capture credentials in our tracking system during 2011 that have contributed to the increase in credentials and some credential types were not included in 2010 (e.g. Association of Energy Engineers: Certified Energy Manager). ‘Association of Energy Engineers: Other AEE accreditations’ includes Business Energy Professional (BEP), CAP, Certified Building Commissioning Professional (CBCP), Certified Energy Auditor (CEA), Certified Energy Procurement Professional (CEP), Certified Sustainable Development Professional (CSDP) and Existing Building Commissioning Professional (EBCP). ‛Other accreditations’ includes CASBEE (and only this for 2010), Certified Demand Side Management, DGNB, Bilan Rick Fedrizzi Carbone, Energy Institute Member, Green Advantage, Green Mark, IGBC AP, and Ska Assessor. President, CEO and Founding Chair, U.S. Green Building “ Council Greening our own office portfolio Jones Lang LaSalle strives to create work environments that reflect our corporate culture. We seek an environment that is efficient and collaborative and we use marketplace best Jones Lang LaSalle has been a practices to help us achieve improved workspace utilization. At year-end 2011, 6% of our long-time leader in the green building corporate office space had a green building standard, including hallmark offices such as our movement. I applaud them, not only Hong Kong office (see right). for their commitment to LEED®, but also for their transparency. This Report Although our overall portfolio consists of a relatively low percentage of green buildings, we serves as a model for other businesses “ feel the decisions made regarding new and revised occupancies reflect a growing trend and and organizations, and helps push the our increasing commitment to sustainability. Of the offices that we occupied for the first time sustainability movement forward. during 2011, 17% had a green building standard. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 30 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr New corporate offices with a green building standard in 2011 Corporate offices with a green building standard Percentage of new corporate offices Number of new Region with a green building standard corporate offices 2010 2011 Americas 0% 14 Number of corporate 164 256 Asia Pacific 38% 8 offices surveyed EMEA 0% 5 Percentage of corporate offices with a green building 5% 6% LaSalle Investment Management 67% 3 standard Total 17% 30 Data qualification notes: The large increase in the total number of corporate offices surveyed is mostly due to the Data qualification notes: ‘Green building standard’ refers to an independently defined standard that signifies expanded scope of surveyed countries. We reported on a building meets a certain level of design and operational performance. This standard refers to a structure and 80% of corporate offices within our carbon management process that is environmentally responsible and resource-efficient throughout a building’s life-cycle: from design to system in 2010 and 99% in 2011. ‘Green building construction, operation, maintenance, renovation, and demolition. This could include green fit-out standards. standard’ refers to an independently defined standard that signifies a building meets a certain level of design Our office occupation strategy also seeks to minimize our impact on the environment. By and operational performance. This standard refers to a looking at both materials and processes, we are greening our space in a multitude of ways structure and process that is environmentally responsible that also make sound commercial sense. Factors that we consider include: and resource-efficient throughout a building’s life-cycle: ▪ Building location and its impact on employee commuting from design to construction, operation, maintenance, renovation, and demolition. The number of corporate ▪ Designing open environments that can accommodate the changes needed in our offices with a green building standard in 2010 has been dynamic industry, including a more efficient use of space, and that encourage restated (from 17 to 9), along with the 2010 number collaboration of corporate offices surveyed (from 158 to 164), given clearer definitions and further data validation. ▪ Preference for natural light and reused or recycled materials ▪ Potential for LEED® or other green building standards The Americas Occupancy Committee, which reports to our regional Chief Operating Officer, looks at the above sustainability issues in the underwriting of every expansion, renewal and new space decision. From this regional model, we analyzed these four criteria throughout the entirety of our global corporate office space to better understand the uptake of these strategic sustainability decisions. Overall, the findings show that office size minimization and material reuse or recycling are considered in a majority of our revised occupancy strategies. Building location and green building standards were reviewed in nearly two out of every five corporate offices, where office moves took place. Globally, 72% of corporate offices with a revised occupancy strategy considered some sustainability element. Sustainable occupancy strategies Percentage of revised occupancy strategies that considered key sustainability elements in 2011 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% Sustainability element 50% not considered 40% Sustainability element 30% considered 20% 10% 0 Building location Office size Material reuse Green building and employee minimization or recycling or fit-out standard commute ................................................................................................................. Data qualification notes: A revised occupancy strategy refers to a modified approach that aligns changing business needs with optimum portfolio utilization. For example, optimization of our corporate office portfolio to achieve cost savings and enhanced productivity. Former King Sturge offices in EMEA (the majority of which are in the UK) are not included in these figures due to the 2011 merger. The total number of corporate offices that underwent revised occupancy strategies is 54. We did not analyze sustainability elements outside of the criteria displayed above. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 31 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Driving improvements through our own Green Tenant Module We set ourselves a target to conduct the Jones Lang LaSalle Green Tenant Module for all U.S. corporate offices greater than 10,000 square feet by the end of 2011. Jones Lang LaSalle’s Green Tenant Module is both a program for continuous improvement and an assessment tool to measure and improve the performance of facilities. We applied the module to 16 U.S. corporate offices in 2011 (with a further two offices scheduled for assessment in 2012), resulting in feedback on our sustainability performance and recommendations for improvement, as seen in the table below: Sustainability Performance Recommendations issue Space usage Good use of space in facilities with highly Introduce occupancy sensors Image reference: The above shows a common area in satisfactory hoteling arrangements in areas with low traffic one of our corporate offices, 9 Raffles Place at Republic Energy 100% of facilities have a policy whereby Review opportunities to reduce Plaza. This office is a part of Jones Lang LaSalle’s Plug loads equipment must be ENERGY STAR; strong energy consumption in server WorkSmart program in Singapore, which launched in 2011. culture to turn off devices when not in use rooms and consider more sophisticated control devices Water Water consumption is limited to washrooms Install water-flow restrictors and small kitchens, therefore sub-metering to faucets and water reduction initiatives are not a priority Waste Robust provisions for recycling: all facilities Develop regular waste audits management have recycling bins close to source of waste generation Revolutionary thinking through Alternative Workplace Strategies Jones Lang LaSalle is constantly looking at ways that it can enhance the performance of its people, places and technology, so that teams and individuals can work at their best. Some of this thinking is channeled through Alternative Workplace Strategies (AWS) for our clients, Image reference: The above shows a newly renovated workspace in one of our corporate offices, 9 Raffles Place while we are also setting an example in our own space. 44% of our corporate offices around at Republic Plaza. This office is a part of the world utilize a non-traditional way of working. Jones Lang LaSalle’s WorkSmart program in Singapore, which launched in 2011. In Asia Pacific, the Firm developed an innovative approach in 2011 with an AWS called ‘WorkSmart’. The program provides a combination of modern work practices, non-territorial Alternative Workplace Strategies activity settings and multiple work locations, which support improved mobility of staff, and a (AWS) in 2011 more effective utilization of the workspace. WorkSmart has five main goals: Percentage of Total number ▪ To create a work environment that enhances employee collaboration, innovation and corporate of corporate productivity Region offices with offices an AWS surveyed ▪ To provide employees with a sense of pride in the workplace ▪ To leverage technology to provide greater ease of communication among employees and Americas 73% 104 clients and facilitate increased efficiency Asia Pacific 13% 69 ▪ To make use of policies, tools and processes that support how employees want to work EMEA 31% 61 ▪ To have a workplace that functions as a showplace for clients LaSalle Investment 33% 9 Management A key component of WorkSmart is ‘activity-based working’. This gives people a choice of Total 44% 243 settings for various workplace activities, whether in the office, at a client site or at home. Technology underpins this concept through wireless networks, mobile computing, VOIP Data qualification notes: Alternative Workplace telephony and other technologies. Strategies refer to the combination of non-traditional work practices, settings, and locations that supplement or As well as enhanced technologies and IT infrastructure, newly-designed and configured replace traditional offices. For example, mobile work inside office space that enables mobility, creativity and productivity is fundamental to the success and outside the office, work from home (telecommuting) and work from third party places or other activities that of WorkSmart. We expect to achieve high energy savings in new WorkSmart offices aim to reduce the individual employee per square foot real compared to more traditional offices, which will lead to a reduction in our greenhouse gas estate footprint. Former King Sturge offices in EMEA (the emissions per employee. majority of which are in the UK) are not included in these figures due to the 2011 merger. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 32 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Investment in the program is significant and pilot offices for the scheme were launched Percentage of leases with green language in 2011 for Canberra (Australia) and the Corporate Solutions division in Singapore. The in our occupied space program will continue to be rolled out across Asia Pacific in 2012. Region 2010 2011 Open workspace environments not only minimize energy usage and costs, but they may also improve the overall ethical environment and therefore reduce the significant litigation Americas 51% 65% and regulatory costs that result from ethical lapses and compliance failures. A 2011 joint Asia Pacific 0% 3% study (see link here) by Jones Lang LaSalle and Ethisphere Institute found that open workspaces are generally thought to reduce employee misconduct that is more difficult in a EMEA 41% 44% transparent office, such as inappropriate internet usage and sexual harassment. Total 34% 39% Experts in green leases Data qualification notes: We recorded a total of 292 leases in 2010 and 306 leases in 2011. These figures take We have invested extensively in personnel, assessment tools and technology to support into account any condition with green language in a lease, green leasing. Our network of leasing and sustainability experts, along with leading but do not necessarily reflect comprehensive or fully integrated green conditions. edge tools such as our Green Facilities Assessment Tenant Module, OneView Lease Administration Database, LaSalle Investment Management’s Green Lease Guidelines and Portfolio Energy and Environmental Reporting System, position Jones Lang LaSalle to help Primary source of water data in 2011 clients maximize environmental and savings benefits on their leased portfolios. We also apply this knowledge to Jones Lang LaSalle’s own occupied portfolio. In 2011, we saw an increase in the percentage of green lease language used in our occupied space from 34% to 39% (see chart on the right). Thinking holistically: how waste and water contribute to a greener building In both our clients’ and our own approach to sustainable buildings, waste and water management seldom take highest priority over energy because the regulatory or cost drivers are not as strong. These two areas are of increasing concern, but still vary from region to region. Our materiality assessment from 2010 excluded waste and water as core issues. Landlord purchases 39% From our first attempt at tracking activity related to waste and water, we learned that 66% service charge estimation of corporate offices have a waste management initiative; and 12% had a water reduction Landlord purchases 27% initiative during 2011. The charts and tables on this and the following page, provide detail service charge metered around our initial assessment, as well as examples of initiatives from around the world. Other 18% Direct purchases utility invoice 14% Americas Examples of water reduction Direct purchases metered 2% ...................................................... ▪ In the U.S., we retrofitted building restrooms to reduce water consumption as part of a tenant fit-out. Data qualification notes: This chart shows the percentage of survey respondents out of a total Asia Pacific Examples of water reduction of 56 respondents. Respondents represent ▪ In Australia, we encouraged employees to reduce their water consumption through a poster campaign in countries with the exception of China and the kitchen and bathrooms. We also upgraded toilet facilities to reduce water usage in conjunction with our Southern Cone. Former King Sturge offices in landlord and installed waterless urinals. In addition, where information is available, we review our water EMEA (the majority of which are in the UK) are usage to better understand our consumption. not included in these figures due to the 2011 merger. ▪ In China, we launched posters to provide tips on how employees can reduce water. In India, we use sensor based urinals to reduce water consumption for flushing. EMEA Examples of water reduction ▪ We have dual flush toilets and low flow sink faucets installed in many of our corporate offices (including those in Croatia, France, Germany, Russia, Switzerland, and the UK). Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 33 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Although we have not conducted another materiality review, we have observed the growing Corporate offices with a water reduction importance of waste and water from the pulse of our clients; the wider industry; and initiative in 2011 changing risks and opportunities related to sustainability. It is particularly challenging to understand the impacts within our own operations given that we lease our corporate offices Region Percentage Number of – the graph on the right (and on the previous page) clearly depicts this barrier regarding the of corporate corporate offices offices surveyed lack of direct measurement of waste and water impacts. Americas 2% 104 Americas Examples of waste management Asia Pacific 17% 69 ▪ A wide range of materials are recycled across the Americas. In the U.S., this includes printer toners, EMEA 25% 61 batteries and electronics. LaSalle 11% 9 Asia Pacific Examples of waste management Investment Management ▪ In Australia, we have implemented centralized recycling stations and poster and email campaigns to encourage the reduction, reuse and recycling of waste. In New Zealand, there are no bins at desks to Total 12% 243 encourage recycling and waste minimization. Data qualification notes: A water reduction initiative refers ▪ In Singapore, we run annual drives to collect unwanted glasses and electronic devices. In Japan, there is a to a project or program that aims to reduce water usage in campaign to recycle bottle caps. our occupied space. For example, a communication to all employees about water usage or installation of a device to EMEA Examples of waste management minimize water usage such as dual flush toilets or low-flow sink faucets, etc. Former King Sturge offices in EMEA (the ▪ In the UK, posters on recycling rates are used to encourage employees to recycle their waste. majority of which are in the UK) are not included in these figures due to the 2011 merger. ▪ In Russia, a 'Follow Me' printing system is used to reduce paper waste. Management of waste data in 2011 Corporate offices with a waste management initiative in 2011 Percentage of Number of corporate Region corporate offices offices surveyed Americas 76% 104 Asia Pacific 52% 69 EMEA 66% 61 LaSalle Investment Management 56% 9 Total 66% 243 Data qualification notes: Our survey asked about recycling initiatives; however, our sense through the validation process is that the figures possibly capture some activities related to reduction and reuse of waste, in addition to recycling initiatives. Former King Sturge offices in EMEA (the majority of which are in the UK) are not included in Landlord directly manages contract 46% these figures due to the 2011 merger. (but does NOT pass data to Jones Lang LaSalle) No waste contract 20% Jones Lang LaSalle directly manages 13% waste contract Landlord directly manages contract 11% (and passes data to Jones Lang LaSalle) Other 11% ...................................................... Data qualification notes: This chart shows the percentage of survey respondents out of a total of 56 respondents. Respondents represent countries with the exception of China and the Southern Cone. Former King Sturge offices in EMEA (the majority of which are in the UK) are not included in these figures due to the 2011 merger. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback Community commitment With approximately 45,000 employees in over 50 countries around the world, Jones Lang LaSalle is a global business. Wherever we operate, we are committed to being a responsible member of the community, supporting a range of programs and activities to deliver positive impact at a local and regional level. Image reference: In the UK, the Jones Lang LaSalle Property Triathlon is not only one of the country’s premier triathlons, involving 2,200 participants from across the real estate industry, but it is also a major fundraising event, which in 2011 achieved £120,000 for one of the Firm’s corporate charity partners, Macmillan Cancer Support. For further information go here. 35 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Community commitment introduction CSR targets (2011 – 2012) While the services we provide are key to the continued success and growth of our business, it is also the reputation we develop at the community level that is important to On-going maintaining our position as a leader in real estate services. We recognize the significant ▪ Measure and assess community activity by spend and participation globally; link activity with relevant impact that our business activities can have on local communities – through the direct local community objectives where possible and indirect employment we create, the payments we make to suppliers, the advice we ▪ Integrate and document sustainability criteria into provide to clients around their community interactions and taxes we pay to governments. An the procurement process for pre-selected increasingly important part of this impact also comes in the form of our voluntary cash and consumable goods where we have centralized in-kind contributions. control A review of progress against these CSR targets is on Our community strategy is intentionally decentralized so that we can address the local pages 47-48 of this Report. needs of communities, capitalizing on the talents and interests of our diverse workforce. We have made a conscious effort to broaden the nature of our charity partner relationships to such an extent that we now provide in-kind support (namely, IT, office furniture, staff time or Global donation to the United real estate advice) as well as cash contributions. Nations World Food Program As a global citizen, we continue to support Community commitment summary those in need and to make a difference where we can. To help the many international relief Achievements Challenges efforts around the world, the Firm made a global donation in 2011 to the United Charitable contributions and investment We are still working to develop a more cohesive Nations World Food Program, the world’s We recorded $4.3 million spend, including approach for learning about various community largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger. corporate and employee donations, on charitable initiatives and we believe our community impact is understated. However, the Americas region in This initiative provided direct aid to those initiatives; this accounts for 1.9% of our global particular made strides forward by more robustly suffering from the worst droughts in 60 years pre-tax profit managing and tracking its initiatives during 2011. throughout East Africa, affecting more than 10 Gave $1.3 million, which is included in the above We continue to operate more localized supply million people who reside there in desperate figure to the Japanese Red Cross following the earthquake and tsunami disaster chains relating to what we procure for our own need of food, water and emergency Volunteering offices. However, outside of spend on our own healthcare. supply chain, we have a much bigger opportunity At least 2,228 days given to volunteering projects – and in some ways a greater challenge – to help in work time by employees green our clients’ supply chains. A program Sustainability in our supply chain related to supplier sustainability began to take Standard Chartered Bank Initiated thinking around green strategy shape in early 2012, so we look forward to Events in Asia Pacific and the UAE development in our clients’ supply chain sharing our progress in subsequent reports. Achieved 30% of spend on office and kitchen Jones Lang LaSalle hosted a charity dinner supplies with known environmental credentials; and auction in Singapore in September this is up from 17% in 2010 2011. The event helped raise money for Standard Chartered Bank’s global initiative, ‘Seeing is Believing’, a collaboration with Making a global impact the International Agency for Prevention In 2011 we recorded a spend of at least $4.3 million on charitable initiatives, which includes of Blindness (IAPB), which is aimed at both corporate and employee donations. This accounts for 1.9% of our global pre-tax profit preventing avoidable blindness through as compared to 0.9% in 2010. At this stage, we cannot breakdown by Company versus increased awareness and medical intervention. employee monetary spend, so the pre-tax profit percentage serves as a rough indicator of our The event was supported through both performance. The annual increase stems largely from our Global and Americas segments, generous sponsorship and auction items where the latter region implemented a more comprehensive tracking program and also donated by Jones Lang LaSalle and Standard experienced improved economic conditions, thus allowing for greater spend on charitable Chartered Bank employees. The Firm’s donations. The Global number results from a large donation to Japanese tsunami relief efforts. Asia Pacific CEO, Alastair Hughes, was the auctioneer and helped to raise over $80,000. Our employees also donated at least 2,228 days of work time to volunteering projects around With a match from Standard Chartered Bank, the world, compared to 534 days in 2010. While we have continued to improve our monitoring total donations amounted to $160,000. systems for community activities in 2011, we still feel these figures underestimate our In January 2011, employees from the Firm’s charitable contributions and volunteer days. United Arab Emirates offices participated in the Standard Chartered Bank 10k run (a section of the prestigious Dubai Marathon), raising a total of $2,900 as a part of on-going support for the local Al Noor Training Centre for Children with Special Needs. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 36 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Spend on charitable initiatives (USD $) $4,500,000 $4,000,000 $3,500,000 $3,000,000 $2,500,000 Global Firm Management Americas $2,000,000 Asia Pacific EMEA $1,500,000 Stephen Howard “ Chief Executive – Business in the Community $1,000,000 $500,000 $0 Jones Lang LaSalle is a trusted partner of Business in the Community 2010 2011 ................................................................................................................. (BITC) and an ardent supporter of our movement to use business as a force Data qualification notes: Charitable initiative is defined as a Company-organized event or activity where money is raised directly (through Firm monetary spend) or indirectly (through employee monetary spend) for for social change in local communities. charitable causes. LaSalle’s charitable spend was excluded in 2010, but is incorporated into the regional 2011 Businesses of all sizes and sectors figures. The large increase in the Americas figure is partly due to the implementation of a more comprehensive are finding that by investing in these tracking program, enabling us to better capture our charitable spend. The large difference in Global Firm communities and tackling issues Management is due to the $1.25 million donation to the Red Cross in support of the Japanese earthquake and such as employability, education and tsunami relief efforts. We feel these figures still under-represent our actual spend on charitable contributions in enterprise development, they are each region, but we continue to work on improving our tracking process. creating a more sustainable workforce and vibrant economies. Through the Supporting local communities ‘Ready for Work’ program, which supports individuals facing multiple Our community engagement programs in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific are varied barriers to work, Jones Lang LaSalle and inspiring, as illustrated by some of the examples listed here. We have a strong culture actively engages its employees and of community investment and engagement and regularly use our real estate expertise, leverages their business expertise to financial resources and our employees to deliver positive impact in the communities where raise the confidence and skills these we do business. individuals need to re-enter the job market. Through their membership of BITC, Jones Lang LaSalle is making Americas Examples of volunteering a positive impact by contributing to “ ▪ Teams in the U.S. participated in local housing construction and supply drives for Habitat for Humanity ‘Ready for Work’s’ SROI where £1 invested generates £3.12 for society. and Habitat ReStore. ▪ In the U.S. we participated in walks and races for the American Heart Association, Race for the Cure and the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. ▪ Our employees supported after school tutoring programs and mentorships at local schools as part of Partnership with Make-A-Wish programs for Junior Achievement, Working in the Schools and the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship. Foundation The Make-A-Wish Foundation aims to grant Asia Pacific Examples of volunteering the wishes of children with life-threatening ▪ Jones Lang LaSalle and Accenture partnered to offer a capacity building program in India, which will train medical conditions. At an average cost 3,000 candidates in Facility Management. of $5,000 per wish, Jones Lang LaSalle in southern Florida partnered with the ▪ In Australia, our employees volunteered as part of Brisbane flood recovery efforts and bushfire recovery, Foundation to realize the dreams of four local while in Japan our employees supported the earthquake disaster recovery. children, in fundraising efforts generously supported by vendors that culminated in a ▪ Teams across Australia organized fundraising events to support the Property Industry Foundation’s total of $20,000. This was presented to the National Hard Hat Day, which raises money for a number of charities that help homeless children. Foundation at a celebratory event in Miami in In total we raised $12,520. October 2011 attended by 250 of the Firm’s state-wide employees and vendors. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 37 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr EMEA Examples of volunteering Supplier of Distinction Awards ▪ In the UK, 40 volunteers from Birmingham lent a helping hand to the Royal British Legion’s Poppy Appeal, distributing poppy tins to businesses in the city, manning collection points, collecting tins back in and finally Jones Lang LaSalle is committed to identifying counting over £6,300 that local businesses, including our own, had donated. the industry’s leading suppliers and building strong partnerships with them. In the U.S., ▪ In Portugal, our employees join local volunteering organizations that improve the lives of children for two we recognize our partners that help us days a year as part of the GRACE Program. deliver value and innovation to our clients in the annual Supplier of Distinction Awards ▪ Each year, Poland chooses to donate the printing costs that there would have been for a Christmas card and program. The award recipients are selected sends a webmail instead. In 2011, the Polish Business supported the Hospital for Children in Warsaw from a pool of supplier partners by Jones Lang through a €1,000 donation. LaSalle’s Global Strategic Sourcing Board through a comprehensive evaluation process. In 2011 we recognized six suppliers for their In addition to the ad hoc activity around the world, we are proud of our valued regional outstanding achievement in categories such as energy and sustainability, diversity, and programs. In the United States, Jones Lang LaSalle launched ‘Community Connections’ in innovation. The energy and sustainability 2011, a comprehensive philanthropy program designed to integrate the Firm’s core values winner, SBM Management Services, LP, has with community needs, establish goals and strategies for giving, involve employees, and helped Jones Lang LaSalle and its clients provide ways to document and evaluate activities. achieve ambitious environmental and health and safety goals. Please see our website for The Firm recognizes the ‘hands-on’ difference of volunteering and giving that both fosters further details (view this link). employee satisfaction and builds connections with our clients. Rather than mandating one cause or direction, Jones Lang LaSalle therefore believes it is more meaningful for employees and teams to choose their activities to support organizations that make a difference in the communities where they work and live. Procuring green fit-out services for our U.S. corporate offices At the same time, Jones Lang LaSalle realizes that it is important to channel the collective efforts of its people to make a measurable difference, so ‘Community Connections’ is In seeking general contractors to fit-out our concentrated on three major areas of giving, to which most support was already focused, U.S. offices, Jones Lang LaSalle’s Project including: health organizations; education programs; and youth and at-risk family charities. and Development Services team incorporates questions about green construction practices To identify issues, forms of philanthropy, how to rally support, long-term goals and the into their Request for Proposals (RFPs). relationship to the Company’s core values, the program also involves developing a strategy Some strategies used include: for giving that is founded on four pillars: ▪ Diverting a minimum of 50% and as much as 95% of all construction waste from 1. Charitable giving that directly supports local community organizations landfill 2. Volunteerism in which employees make a hands-on difference ▪ Requiring general contractors to enforce an Air Quality Management Plan during 3. Matching gifts for causes employees support personally construction and before occupancy 4. Disaster relief to provide aid when tragedy strikes ▪ Sourcing materials locally whenever possible The key support vehicle for bringing the four pillars to life is the ‘Community Connections’ website. Through toolkits and other resources (see the Philanthropy Toolkit here), it ▪ Specifying furniture, carpet, ceiling tiles and other standards to include recycled enables employees to initiate and drive ideas, to be guided by best practices, to gain content inspiration from examples of others’ efforts, and to track and capture a range of activities. ▪ Striving for low volatile organic compounds (VOCs) content in materials Fostering new community initiatives at Jones Lang LaSalle ▪ Developing specifications to ensure that In the UK, Jones Lang LaSalle has been a long-standing member of ‘Business in the 70-90% of all office equipment is ENERGY Community’ (BITC), a business-led charity that helps to transform communities by STAR rated tackling key social and environmental issues. In 2011 the Firm was instrumental in helping Our office fit-outs are just one example of to progress and support BITC’s ‘Ready for Work’ program, a collaboration between how we leverage our core competencies businesses, the government and homelessness agencies on the largest ever welfare-toon internal projects, allowing us to develop work scheme in the UK. innovative tools and practices before transferring them to clients. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 38 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr The overall aim of the program is to accelerate individuals’ journeys from homelessness into sustained employment. It includes direct support to individuals, capacity building RFP process in the Americas for homeless agency staff, and business support to homelessness social enterprises in targeted locations. Each program element will contribute to a culture change whereby ‘work As one mechanism for how we continue to first’ is seen as the norm for homeless clients. For further information, see the case study improve our procurement performance, the on page 36 or visit this site. Americas Office Services team took the lead on including sustainability requirements in the Working with our suppliers Request for Proposal (RFP) process relating to office supplies. This helps to inform bidders We are committed to improving the sustainability of our procurement practices and those that sustainability will be a key component of our suppliers. At Jones Lang LaSalle we see our supply chain as an integral part of our in the decision-making process and will be community. We expect that each of our suppliers, meaning any firm or individual providing considered as a component of ‘best value a product or service to Jones Lang LaSalle or indirectly to our clients as a contractor or criteria’. The RFP requires that the vendor has a corporate environmental policy and offers subcontractor, will share and embrace the letter and spirit of our commitment to integrity. an extensive selection of green products. While suppliers are independent entities, their business practices may significantly reflect A similar practice is applied when seeking upon us, our reputation and our brand. Accordingly, we expect all suppliers to adhere to the contractors to fit-out our U.S. offices, as seen Jones Lang LaSalle Vendor Code of Conduct. We post our Vendor Code of Conduct on our by the case study on the previous page. public website in some 15 languages (see here for full document). Regarding enforcement of our Vendor Code of Conduct, we currently take measures such as adding compliance with it as a requirement in some contracts, but we do not formally Procurement expenditure on top items audit or review adherence to this policy. However, this is increasing in importance and by spend with environmental formality. We are currently developing a new platform to engage with suppliers and to credentials (USD $) improve the presence of sustainable practices and other elements of risk management in 100% our supply chain, and we will detail our new strategy in future CSR reports. 90% We have a significant impact through our global supply chain, as Jones Lang LaSalle 80% spends approximately $2.8 billion on behalf of client investment properties and corporate 70% facilities for maintenance in the U.S. alone; our vendor database is made up of at least 30,000 companies. We do not have specific policies that require local sourcing nor do we 60% always stipulate preferred vendors, but many are locally-based small and medium-sized 50% enterprises. 40% We are currently deploying our OneView Strategic Sourcing module to establish, leverage 30% and better manage our supplier relationships. Each current or prospective supplier must 20% answer three questions on CSR and their responses drive a score that is tied to our supplier 10% records globally. Furthermore, we assign a rating to each individual supplier contract to identify the level of sustainable content delivered in that supplier’s products or services to 0 2010 2011 our clients. We also have criteria (energy and sustainability being one) to consistently rate supplier performance. Spend without environmental credentials Spend with environmental credentials Procuring green office and kitchen supplies ...................................................... We identified the top three items procured in our corporate offices by spend in 2010. Data qualification notes: Environmental credentials are defined as characteristics that These are: office supplies; kitchen supplies; and printing equipment. Our procurement of signify the product has been made, distributed, environmentally-friendly office and kitchen supplies accounted for 30% of our total spend on sourced, or used in a way that reduces the impact kitchen and office supplies in 2011, up from 17% in 2010. on the surrounding environment. We recorded a spend of $4,079,332 and $3,865,539 in our CSR Our IT procurement policies specify the selection of energy efficient PCs and printing Survey for 2010 and 2011 respectively. Office and kitchen supplies are represented above as two of equipment where possible. While we track the procurement of printing equipment with three items identified to be the top items by spend environmental attributes in some regions, we cannot report a holistic measure at this stage procured for our corporate offices. We have and we aim to improve our measurement in future years. restated our 2010 percentage of spend with environmental credentials (from 21% to 17%) due to further validation. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback Workplace, well-being and diversity We aim to foster a work environment that values the richness of our differences and reflects our diverse world. By cultivating a dynamic mix of people and ideas, we enhance our Company’s client service capabilities, the lives of our employees and the communities in which we operate. 40 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Workplace, well-being and diversity introduction CSR targets (2011 – 2012) We strive to be the employer of choice in our industry. We promote a work environment that attracts, welcomes and retains highly talented and diverse individuals. We encourage Achieved and enable them to succeed, treating our people fairly and rewarding their contributions. ▪ Achieved higher rates of global participation in our Sustainability University Given that we operate in more than 52 countries, we intentionally leave workplace initiatives decentralized so they can conform to different cultural norms and so that we can establish On-going ▪ Expand ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ with annual programs that will best incorporate the various parts of our diverse workforce. The following written plans of key goals and activities for each section provides a snapshot of our efforts in regards to workplace, well-being and diversity. country where possible ▪ Actively promote and capture safe working practices and healthy lifestyles ▪ Achieve an incremental improvement on the 74% of Workplace, well-being and diversity summary those who feel positive about our commitment to CSR Achievements Challenges A review of progress against these CSR targets is on Diversity A challenging economic climate did not leave pages 47-48 of this Report. Women make up 34% of our global workforce and Jones Lang LaSalle unaffected. Due to significant 26% of our Directors uncertainty within markets impacted by the weak The Chief Diversity Officer in the U.S. reports outlook for global growth and continued financial directly to the Americas CEO turbulence, several countries and regions underwent business reviews that resulted in a Advancing diversity and inclusion Our Americas division hired a new full-time Chief higher rate of employee turnover, including in the U.S. of Supplier Diversity necessary layoffs. Measures such as a collective Employee satisfaction and engagement consultation and direct, expedient communications In 2011 we made great progress on our U.S. 71% of respondents to our 2010 global Employee were made a priority to ensure this process was strategic diversity and inclusion priorities: Engagement Survey agreed that “Overall, I am managed as fairly and smoothly as possible. recruitment; development and retention; extremely satisfied with this Company as a place Given our increased focus on reporting health awareness and education; and supplier to work”, driving further enhancements during 2011 and safety measures for this Report, we faced diversity. Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Training and development challenges around identifying the right network; using the most meaningful indicators; and Council drives our advances in this area We spent at least $10.5 million on staff training by making recommendations to the Firm’s worldwide, contributing to a 36% increase of working through these issues following team and training spend per employee staff changes that impacted the process. leadership team and monitoring progress. However, we overcame this challenge and have Our Sustainability University attracted a total of In 2011, the D&I Council introduced a Firmreported on health and safety in this Report, but 2,619 attendees for its monthly Sustainability wide mentoring program and an intranet will focus on improving data quality in future. Sessions, LEED® accreditation webinars and site to share best practices. We also ensure other training, a 119% increase from last year leadership accountability for diversity and Health and safety inclusion by linking diversity performance to We reported on global health and safety metrics each of the America’s Executive Council’s related to clients for the first time, with a Days compensation. Away and Restricted Time (DART) rate of 0.53 and an Recordable Incidence Rate (RIR) rate of To recruit strong diverse talent externally, we 0.74 in 2011 have developed focused partnerships with We recorded 105 initiatives in 2011 that promote historically black colleges, universities and safe working and healthy lifestyles around the organizations, such as Tuskegee University, world, compared to 69 in 2010 Florida A&M and the Society of Black Engineers. Diversity in our business We conducted our first ever Women’s Summit in September 2011 to advance our retention Diversity is not only a strategic priority for Jones Lang LaSalle; it is a part of our value and development efforts for women. The system. It means creating a culture in which people succeed upon merit and where different summit provided attendees with the tools and points of view are valued. It is not about a gender or ethnic-based quota; diversity is about resources to help them successfully navigate leveraging the value that each of our employees brings to work. Ultimately, diversity is their careers and allowed for exposure to the about increasing the talent pool from which we recruit and unleashing the full potential of Firm’s senior leadership team. our employees to better serve our clients and shareholders. Our Diversity Fundamentals workshops We have developed a strategy that is aimed toward: continue to improve awareness and education, and we identified 400 managers to undertake ▪ Attracting, developing and retaining top diverse talent at all levels of our Firm the training in 2011. ▪ Creating an inclusive environment that enables all employees to reach their full potential ▪ Expanding our relationships with minority and women-owned businesses through our vendor diversity initiatives Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 41 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr In some aspects of diversity, we have made substantial progress. For instance, most of our country operations are now led by local leaders, which was not the case ten years ago. Within our operations in China, Japan and India, for example, diversity has meant hiring and promoting more nationals into the highest leadership positions. Employees by age 2011 2010 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Under 25 Age 25-34 Age 35-44 Age 45-55 Over 55 Angela Roseboro “ Americas Chief Diversity Officer ................................................................................................................... Data qualification notes: Employees with undisclosed age were excluded from this analysis (216 and 324 employees in 2010 and 2011 respectively). Total number of employees is from our people management system (38,856 and 31,024 in 2010 and 2011 respectively), which differs from our global financial consolidation system, For Jones Lang LaSalle, diversity and and is lower than expected since employees may choose not to disclose their birth date. inclusion is smart management that can be lived every day to empower In many respects, however, the composition of our workforce reflects the lack of diversity employees and is a key differentiator for in the property industry generally. We are pleased to see the percentage of women in our our business. I am proud to drive forward business grow. Globally, women comprise 34% of our workforce and 26% of our Director the diversity and inclusion agenda in “ population. The percentage of women out of all employees and Directors only is in line with line with our goal to be the employer of our 2010 figure. We remain focused on ensuring that women enjoy successful and long choice in the real estate industry. careers and form part of our senior management team and on continuing to encourage people from a diverse range of backgrounds to join our business. Total employees by gender 2011 2010 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Male Female ............................................................................................................... Data qualification notes: In 2010 and 2011, 66% of employees were male (25,833 and 28,269 respectively) and 34% were female (13,197 and 14,741 respectively). Total number of employees is from our people management system, which differs slightly from our global financial consolidation system. Total Directors by gender 2011 2010 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Male Female ................................................................................................................ Data qualification notes: In 2010, 75% of Directors were male (3,297) and 25% were female (1,112). In 2011, 74% of Directors were male (3,801) and 26% were female (1,303). Directors refer to those holding a title of Associate Director and above. i.e. Associate Directors, National Directors, Regional Directors and International Directors. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 42 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Diversity at Board level and within each region Women of the Future Not only do we advocate diverse employees and management teams, but diversity within Corporate Awards our Board of Directors enables Jones Lang LaSalle to champion varying perspectives – and In November 2011 at the annual ‘Women of to better understand the global world in which we operate. We have three female members the Future Awards’ held in London, Jones of the Board, one of whom serves as Chairman. Out of eleven total members, two are Lang LaSalle’s own commitment to employing of different nationalities and cultural backgrounds. The age of Board members ranges from women, who have the potential to be future 49 to 74 years old. leaders in the industry, was acknowledged by being shortlisted for ‘The Women of These leadership values of diversity are reflected in various ways across each region. For the Future Corporate Award’. The Firm’s the first time in 2011, we formally tracked the number of diversity and inclusion initiatives entry into the Awards follows the launch in around the world, which amounted to 84 initiatives. The table below gives a sampling of 2010 of its ‘Changing the Face of Property’ those initiatives. initiative, which is leading the industry in increasing levels of awareness about Americas Examples of diversity and inclusion careers in property, recruiting from a wider pool of universities and making the social ▪ In the U.S., the Corporate Solutions’ Advocate Program aims to ensure that high value talent at the environment more culturally inclusive. Associate Director level is provided with opportunities for mentorship and that diverse talent is connected with leadership to build relationships with next generation leaders. ▪ Our Diversity and Inclusion Council have implemented a Firm-wide mentoring program and workshop Employee turnover to increase awareness and understanding of diversity and inclusion. 2010 2011 Asia Pacific Examples of diversity and inclusion Voluntary leavers 7,548 7,549 ▪ In Australia, our 'Women in Property' initiative aims to increase the visibility and retention of women in the Involuntary leavers 2,891 2,507 business by providing professional support, transition and mentoring programs and flexible working options. Total employees 39,072 43,019 ▪ In India, a group of 25 senior female leaders meet to develop ways to attract, nurture and grow talent % turnover 27% 23% among women in Jones Lang LaSalle. We have developed flexible working practices and identified office mentors in each city to offer support to women in the business. Data qualification notes: Turnover percentage accounts for the number of leavers (voluntary, dismissal and EMEA Examples of diversity and inclusion retirement) out of the total number of employees at yearend (following GRI LA2 methodology). This differs from ▪ In South Africa, we implemented a performance management system with a skills development element the methodology applied in the 2010 CSR Report, where we reported a turnover of 25% for 2010 (the number of aimed at employees who had not previously accessed certain education and training. leavers out of the average number of employees). Total number of employees is from our people management ▪ In Germany, we have set up a ‘Women at Work’ group to analyze special working situations for women system, which differs slightly from our global financial within the real estate business. consolidation system. Redundancies are included in the involuntary figure. Employee engagement and satisfaction New starters It is important to the development of our business and fulfillment of our global strategy for renewed growth that we address the needs and concerns of our employees. We conduct 2010 2011 regular surveys to understand how our employees view the future of the business. New starters 13,225 15,067 In the most recent global Employee Engagement Survey conducted in 2010 (it was not Total employees 39,072 43,019 done again in 2011, but will be in 2012), we achieved an average global response rate % new starters 34% 35% of 74%, representing a 25% increase from our previous Survey. Despite high levels of employee engagement, the Survey also revealed ways in which we can improve in this area and increase the effectiveness of our management teams. Employee turnover by gender in 2011 We detailed how feedback from the Survey would be shared in our 2010 CSR Report and Male Female this year we are pleased to report that throughout 2011, we continued to progress the Voluntary leavers 4,761 2,788 actions and initiatives that were drawn from the initiative. Involuntary leavers 1,719 788 These proactive measures continue to be led and driven by the Firm’s senior management. Related to managerial accountability, a strong culture of addressing specific employee and Total employees 28,269 14,741 team concerns is now well-established across the Company; at the same time, employees % turnover 23% 24% are being actively encouraged to give feedback and support to their managers on changes they would like to see, such as organizational improvements. Improved employee engagement and satisfaction will continue to be a fundamental goal of Jones Lang LaSalle, ensuring that our people differentiate the Firm. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 43 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr In 2011, we had a 23% turnover rate with a total of 10,056 leavers from the Firm (see previous page). This is a slight decrease from our prior year’s turnover rate. To better understand the dynamics behind our turnover rate, it is helpful to analyze the regional variations. For instance, turnover is highest within the Asia Pacific region at 32%, as compared to 15% in EMEA and the Americas. LaSalle Investment Management sits in the middle (20%). In Asia, the turnover rate is high in China, Hong Kong and India, which then affects the rest of the region. Turnover rates were roughly similar between males and females. Our rate of new starters globally, likewise, stayed nearly the same from 2010 to 2011 at around a third of our total global employees. Employee engagement through our ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ platform A large component of our internal sustainability program, ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’, relates to our employee engagement efforts. ACT encourages behavioral change among employees for a more sustainable workplace. Much of the program is led by champions on the ground who generate concern for our sustainability impacts through conversation with colleagues, managers and local green teams. Lauralee Martin “ Global Chief Operating and Financial Officer ACT was used to demonstrate our sustainability expertise and to reflect that we ‘walk the talk’ by 63% of respondents to our CSR Survey. When ACT is compared against revenues from each country, the countries that utilize ACT account for 87% of our global revenue – this did not change from 2010. This shows that our internal sustainability A great strength of the ACT program efforts remain embedded in the largest revenue-generating operations. We have a great is that we can all participate. It is our opportunity to demonstrate our competencies to clients through the ACT program, which in collective action that really makes turn enables better business and helps in sharing best practices. the difference. Around the world, our people have taken the initiative to Training and development form a variety of green teams, ACT Jones Lang LaSalle’s aim is to establish an effective workforce, whereby we instill a desire champion networks and ACTion groups “ for excellence, a willingness to take on individual responsibility and to be flexible, and an to encourage and support colleagues acceptance of the importance of team cooperation. toward local goals. Employees review their progress and revise performance objectives every half-year. In 2011, roughly the same percentage of employees received formal performance and career development reviews as last year. One of the most significant changes during 2011 as a Percentage of training and development result of the 2010 global Employee Engagement Survey included implementation of a new section in our performance management tool globally related to growth and development. This spend per employee in 2011 enhancement aims to encourage fruitful discussions between managers and employees. Percentage of employees who received formal performance and career development reviews 2011 2010 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Regular formal performance review No regular formal performance review ............................................................................................................... Data qualification notes: Employees created a total of 19,076 and 20,471 career objective agreements, of which 15,833 and 16,786 were formally reviewed in 2010 and 2011 respectively. As for EMEA 39% those who do not create career objective agreements, most are site staff and do not use the Company LaSalle Investment Management 28% goal tracking software. Americas 19% Our employees are generally required by their professional bodies to undertake Continuing Asia Pacific 14% ...................................................... Professional Development (CPD) as part of their qualification for on-going professional status. We support the development needs of all staff through a range of approaches Data qualification notes: The number of employees is from our people management including: in-house seminars on technical and topical issues within the real estate, financial system, which differs slightly from our global and related industries; enabling staff to attend similar events run by other organizations; financial consolidation system. There are 694 formal training programs for personal development and technical advancement; and employees with no assigned region that are supporting membership of wider professional organizations. excluded from this analysis. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 44 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr We spent $10.5 million on staff training and development in 2011. This is a $3.4 million A united front for a sustainable increase as compared to 2010; or, put another way, we increased training spend per future employee globally by 36%. As you can see in the chart (on the previous page), there is a large variation in training spend per employee across the regions. EMEA, which spent Jones Lang LaSalle’s Project & Development roughly the same amount as the Americas and Asia Pacific regions, has a much lower Services (PDS) group in Asia Pacific number of employees than its counterparts. Plus, the same training program is likely to identified sustainability as a key focus area be delivered to a larger population in the Americas and Asia Pacific, as compared to both for growth in 2011. The related action plan LaSalle Investment Management and EMEA, thus reducing the spend per employee. included connecting with the Firm’s Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) group for Sustainability training improved integration, identifying sustainability In addition to these activities, Jones Lang LaSalle’s Sustainability University offers a champions and undertaking regular training. training platform for those around the Firm who want a basic or sophisticated understanding A collaborative effort by the Asia Pacific PDS of sustainability. Formed in 2008 as part of our Global Sustainability Commitment, the team and Jones Lang LaSalle’s Sustainability University continues to go from strength to strength – in 2011, we had 2,619 attendees University resulted in unique training sessions (up from 1,194 in 2010) at training sessions, which spanned 3,853 hours. Sustainability in Singapore and Bangalore, attracting over Sessions are held monthly and feature a range of topics from energy management, to an 50 key personnel at each. Sessions focused update on the Energy and Sustainability Services business, to a focus on internal programs. on delivering environmental sustainability and energy cost savings and uncovered the challenges that exist for growing the Participation in Jones Lang LaSalle's Sustainability University sustainability business in Asia Pacific. This has led to the appointment of team leaders Program 2010 attendees 2011 attendees Percentage increase to take action on specific issues, as well as to further develop the PDS-ESS platform for Sustainability Sessions 918 1,036 13% joint delivery. LEED® accreditation training 55 881 1,502% Other sustainability training 221 702 218% Total 1,194 2,619 119% Data qualification notes: Attendees is the total number of employees that attended individual training sessions. The same individuals may have been present in more than one session, but all members of training sessions may not have been recorded where groups gathered to participate via one LiveMeeting account. Sustainability Sessions are web-based presentations devoted to energy and sustainability issues in our business and feature subject matter experts from around the world. Other sustainability training includes efforts to educate our Project and Development Services team in London and two-day in-person training courses with colleagues in Bangalore and Singapore, as examples. Employee benefits and compensation Another major concern we continued to tackle in 2011 was the recognition and reward of employees. At a business line level, this is a critical area of review and action, in terms of improving both the clarity and fairness of compensation packages, as well as providing appropriate rewards for the highest performers and incentives for those bringing business Trish Maxson to the Firm. “ Global Human Resources Officer Total Reward is a concept at Jones Lang LaSalle that represents a variety of programs and plans designed to reward, recognize and motivate employees. The emphasis of Total Reward is placed on the whole package offered by the Firm, both from a financial Our businesses are becoming as well as a non-financial perspective. We use this concept to attract and retain the best increasingly global, with clients talent, maintaining our position as an employer of choice around the world and in local markets. While the concept and philosophy is fairly similar across the Firm, Total Reward is demanding diverse teams of customized at a local level. experts who can operate in a global environment. Our global platform is a Incentives for sustainability-related teams and at Board level key differentiator for us and initiatives like the International Leadership “ We provide non-financial and financial incentives for the management of climate change Development Program will strengthen issues, as well as other sustainability-related activity. Some members of our Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) teams are paid on a base salary plus bonus (with up to 50% our service offering. of total compensation reflected in this bonus), which is tied to achieving our clients’ goals such as meeting an emissions reduction target. Other members of the ESS team have to meet revenue targets associated with the sale of ESS services. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 45 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Outside ESS, our property and facility managers are paid on a base salary plus performance bonus basis. Achievement of their performance bonuses includes specific Health and safety training in the UK goals to improve the energy and sustainability performance of the properties they manage. At Board level, we take into account the compensation we pay to our Executive Officers At the beginning of 2011, Jones Lang LaSalle’s for their leadership in sustainability and CSR practices, including third party achievements Integrated Facilities Management team in the such as the ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ award. You can find more details of these UK received accreditation from the British Safety incentives on page 54 of our Proxy Statement. Council to deliver in-house Health and Safety training. This supported a drive to ensure that Maintaining a safe and healthy working environment for our clients and ourselves all Engineering Services employees receive a minimum standard of health and safety training We believe that the best health and safety solution is also the best business solution. and education in working towards a goal of ‘zero Most incidents involving injury or damage are preventable and no process in any of our harm’. workplaces is too urgent that we cannot find a safe way of carrying out that process. Throughout 2011 the training has been delivered This also includes support for a work-life balance and improvements such as desk side to site-based Engineering staff across the UK ergonomic assessments to ensure our employees are content in the workplace. by our own Environmental, Health & Safety To enhance the level of well-being of its staff globally, a significant proportion of whom professionals. By year-end, 81 staff had achieved work at client sites, the Firm’s Integrated Facilities Management (IFM) division operates a ‘Level 1 Award in Health and Safety at Work’ under policies and standards that act as a framework for its health and safety management while 17 supervisors and site safety champions system. The model for IFM’s system is based on the internationally recognized OHSAS had attained a ‘Level 2 Award in Supervising 18001 Standard and its Plan-Do-Check-Act methodology. The policy has also been Staff Safely’. The program has already raised the adopted by our Property and Asset Management group in Asia Pacific and can be found on profile of health and safety across Engineering our CSR website. Services and its success is reflected in a significant reduction in accidents. Having been developed and endorsed by IFM, this group also takes a strong interest in tracking and measuring health and safety performance. For the first time in 2011, we are reporting Recordable Incidence Rate (RIR) and Days Away and Restricted Time (DART) Health and safety performance rates to increase our transparency around this issue. Our global RIR rate of 0.74 and DART rate of 0.53, which represent the number of cases per 100 employees per year, significantly Region DART rate RIR rate outperform industry benchmarks. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the 2010 U.S. Global 0.53 0.74 RIR and DART industry averages are 4.2 and 1.8 (respectively) for Facilities Management. Data qualification notes: Recordable Incidence Rate (RIR) Our internal health and safety policies are driven regionally – and most of the time on a refers to Occupational Safety and Health Administration country-by-country basis. However, in 2011 we benchmarked the number of campaigns (OSHA) recordable incidents. Days Away and Restricted around the world that promote safe working and healthy lifestyles. This amounted to 105 Time (DART) refers to cases with days away from work, job transfers or restrictions. The rates are derived using total initiatives, as compared to around 69 in 2010, and the table below provides just a few the standard OSHA calculation for Recordable Incidence examples of the health, safety and well-being initiatives we have implemented. Rates. The calculation is based on a standard of 200,000 hours worked by 100 employees (40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year). The resulting incidence rate indicates the Americas Examples of health and safety number of injuries or illnesses per 100 employees. These figures represent Asia Pacific; EMEA; Latin America; and North America. The U.S. figure accounts for all Jones ▪ In Brazil, we created a health and safety campaign with an ergonomic orientation and distribution Lang LaSalle employees. All other regions account for our of ergonomic safety equipment for all employees. Integrated Facilities Management business only. ▪ In the U.S. our employees participate in Active for Life, a team-based competition provided through a partnership with the American Cancer Society to promote physical activity and weight management. Labor standards and labor relations The program can lead to improved job performance and morale, and lower absenteeism, employee turnover and medical costs. We have strong policies against forced or compulsory labor. Our employees are Asia Pacific Examples of health and safety not members of any labor unions with the ▪ In South China, a fun day was organized to engage our employees in exercises to promote physical exception of approximately 1,228 directly and mental health. reimbursable property maintenance employees in the United States. This ▪ In offices across China and Japan, we organized specialized healthy workplace seminars. amounts to 2.9%, a slight increase on last year’s figure, of our total global EMEA Examples of health and safety employees. Jones Lang LaSalle has always maintained a healthy relationship with union ▪ In the UK, our Employee Assistance Program provides advice and counseling to all employees on a wide employees, supported the right to exercise range of issues. freedom of association, and observed and ▪ In Germany, we provide various training workshops on health and safety and provide advice on ergonomics complied with the provisions expressed in and safety in the workplace. collective bargaining agreements. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback Addendum, data and feedback We are continually improving the way we track our CSR program and its results. We are assessing a wider range of indicators, improving data accuracy, and providing more detailed analyses. In line with Global Reporting Initiative principles, we understand the importance of a balanced, transparent and comparable disclosure of the issues that are most material to our business and our clients. 47 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Review of CSR targets' progress The following section depicts the progress against our CSR targets, which were first established in our 2010 CSR Report. This analysis takes a simplistic approach, but we aim to build a more robust analysis moving forward by trialing different approaches through an internal management feedback process with regional data. For ease of reference, we have labeled each target with a symbol so that you can find related information within the Report. At a high level, we have also detailed evidence against each target in the chart that follows. Material issues and CSR targets Target status Evidence from 2011 Energy and climate ▪ Deliver carbon savings for clients that exceed 10 times Fully achieved ▪ Jones Lang LaSalle’s total GHG emissions: 49,000 our own global footprint metric tons CO2e ▪ Client GHG emissions savings in the U.S. alone: 587,000 metric tons CO2e ▪ Continue reducing the energy consumption/carbon On track to be achieved ▪ Reduced our absolute building-related emissions by footprint of our own corporate offices 8% from 2010 to 2011 ▪ Achieved a 17% reduction in building-related emissions per corporate office employee in the same period ▪ Improve the accuracy of carbon data metrics On track to be achieved ▪ Documented a 7% decrease in emissions from estimated leased building carbon, resulting from a greater capture of actual data ▪ Restated 2009 and 2010 carbon figures based on process improvements ▪ Implement energy efficiency initiatives in our corporate Progress made, but there is ▪ Recorded over 170 ACT initiatives to reduce energy offices room for improvement use and GHG emissions in our offices during 2011 Client service excellence ▪ Achieve external recognition for sustainability On track to be achieved ▪ Lead sponsor for CDP Cities; ENERGY STAR Partner leadership of the Year; Ethics Inside Certification; FORTUNE World’s Most Admired Companies; Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies Green buildings ▪ Assess new corporate office accommodation using Progress made, but there is ▪ 17% of new corporate offices have green building and/ local green building standards and incorporate green room for improvement or green fit-out standards fit-out standards into all new offices ▪ Conduct Jones Lang LaSalle Green Tenant Module for Progress made, but there is ▪ 89% of targeted offices underwent the Green Tenant all U.S. corporate offices greater than 10,000 square room for improvement Module feet by end 2011 ▪ The remaining 11% (2 offices) completed the Module in early 2012 due to lack of information ▪ A delay in schedule did not create a significant impact on the overall success of the initiative ▪ Revise corporate office standards to move toward a On track to be achieved ▪ 72% of corporate offices with a revised occupancy best-in-class occupancy strategy strategy considered sustainability elements Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 48 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Green buildings, continued ▪ Achieve 1,000 energy and sustainability accredited Fully achieved ▪ Achieved 1,075 energy and sustainability professionals professionals (LEED®, CEM, BREEAM, Green Star, by year-end etc.) by the end of 2012 Community commitment ▪ Measure and assess community activity by spend and Progress made, but there is ▪ We recorded an expenditure of $4,286,916 in participation globally; link activity with relevant local room for improvement charitable contributions and 2,228 volunteering days community objectives where possible ▪ Improved measurement of activity; for example, the U.S. started tracking volunteering days in a central database ▪ Sponsored Olympics champions; served diverse, local communities; aided relief efforts for natural disasters ▪ Integrate and document sustainability criteria into the On track to be achieved ▪ Identified kitchen supplies, printers/printing equipment procurement process for pre-selected consumable and office supplies as top three items by spend goods where we have centralized control ▪ Increase in expenditure from 17% to 30% on top items (by spend) with environmental credentials from 2010 to 2011 Workplace, well-being and diversity ▪ Expand ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ with annual written Progress made, but there is ▪ A majority of countries (56%) do not have annual plans of key goals and activities for each country where room for improvement written plans/objectives or governance committees/ possible green teams to support our internal CSR programs ▪ Achieve higher rates of global participation in our Fully achieved ▪ 119% increase in overall participation in our Sustainability University by end 2012 Sustainability University ▪ The combined proportion of participants from Asia Pacific and EMEA increased from 2% in 2010 to 17% in 2011 ▪ Actively promote and capture safe working practices On track to be achieved ▪ We recorded 105 health and well-being initiatives in and healthy lifestyles 2011, compared to 69 in 2010 ▪ Publically reported client health and safety metrics (DART and RIR rates) for the first time ▪ Achieve an incremental improvement on the 74% of Not feasible to assess yet ▪ Not applicable since we did not conduct the global those who feel positive about our commitment to CSR Employee Engagement Survey in 2011, but will do so by end 2012 in 2012. Key: Fully achieved Completed during 2011, and in some cases, earlier than scheduled. On track to be achieved Likely to be completed during 2012. Progress made, but there is room Likely to be completed during 2012; however, the target progress is for improvement not as strong as it could be. Not feasible to assess yet Cannot assess progress due to planned lapse in the global Employee Engagement Survey during 2011. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 49 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr LaSalle Investment Management’s Global Guiding Principles: An in-depth look Sustainability Platform LaSalle Investment Management is About LaSalle Investment Management committed to the following Guiding Principles: ▪ Reduce the environmental impacts of our LaSalle Investment Management is a global real estate investment manager investing in business operations, in conjunction with private and public property equity investments on behalf of pension funds, endowments, our parent company Jones Lang LaSalle. foundations, sovereign wealth funds, other institutional investors and high net worth View the expansive efforts of our business individuals. At year-end 2011, LaSalle Investment Management had investments in a by following this link; diverse set of property types and in private and public real estate companies across 19 ▪ Reduce the environmental impacts of our countries worldwide. Our business activities are organized around the three major regions: clients’ properties and monitor the effects Asia Pacific; Europe and the Middle East; and North America. of climate change on those properties; ▪ Deliver the best solutions to our clients LaSalle Investment Management’s Guiding Principles through meeting and/or exceeding the requirements of environmental laws and LaSalle Investment Management’s primary responsibility in all of our activities is to regulations; deliver superior investment results for our clients. In our pursuit of superior investment ▪ Drive thought leadership and innovation on performance, we also believe that environmental, social responsibility, and corporate sustainable property investments; and governance (ESG) best practices are consistent with enhancing long-term investment ▪ Collaborate with clients, tenants, property performance for our clients’ investments. LaSalle Investment Management’s operating managers and other service providers philosophy with respect to ESG is to set policy and strategy at the global level, and to ensure the best sustainable solution empower the regional and local teams to develop initiatives and priorities appropriate for to the management of properties while each country. maximizing investment performance. LaSalle Investment Management’s Global Sustainability Committee LaSalle Investment Management’s sustainability initiatives are led by our 21-member Global Sustainability Committee (GSC). The GSC is chaired by the non-executive chairman of LaSalle Investment Management with the sponsorship of LaSalle Investment Management’s CEO and Global Management Committee. The committee members are from all areas of the business and all parts of the world, and include senior business leaders, as well as LaSalle Investment Management’s global General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and global Sustainability Officer (see here for more information). Members of the GSC are responsible for disseminating the sustainability policies, procedures and strategies developed by the Committee. With regional senior management, the GSC is responsible for developing local initiatives, implementing best practices, and integrating sustainability into our investment activities, aligned with investment performance and client contractual obligations. LaSalle Investment Management’s ESG Policy In 2010 LaSalle Investment Management developed its global ESG Policy, which can be viewed at our website. This Policy is in line with our belief that ESG factors can have a positive impact on investment performance to varying degrees across companies, sectors, regions, asset classes and time frames and should be considered when evaluating real estate securities, real estate-related investments and the management of real estate assets. LaSalle Investment Management’s strategic priorities As we look to grow our global business, our ability to continue to build an effective sustainability platform including demonstrating performance improvements is important to our ability to raise capital from both existing and new investors. The increasing industry push towards environmental metrics reporting is clear from a number of directions, beginning with our clients, but also from prospective investors, industry initiatives, and growing legislative requirements. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 50 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Each year our GSC regional teams develop specific sustainability action plans for their regions. In addition to these regional action plans, as we look ahead to 2012-2013, our Green Rating Alliance Global Sustainability Committee has established four global strategic objectives: ▪ G1. Double LaSalle Investment Management’s Greenprint Portfolio Asset Submission (from 137 to In February of 2011, LaSalle Investment Management became a partner with Green 275 global assets) Rating Alliance. To date, we have completed ▪ G2. Consider Internal Energy/Carbon Reduction Targets 29 European Green Rating™ assessments. ▪ G3. Enhance our Data Tracking Platform The aim of the Alliance is for real estate ▪ G4*. Development of Social & Governance (S & G) Guidelines 2012-2013 companies to join forces and exchange best practices to bring concrete solutions on *These S&G guidelines will complement our Environmental (E) metric tracking, and help us further our commitment sustainability to the property industry. The to UNPRI to begin a process over time to develop and drive ESG principles into our internal investment decisions, Green Rating™ assessment, available in as well as into the third party partners, managers, consultants and vendors with whom we do business. 12 countries across Europe, is a decisionmaking tool which offers a new approach to LaSalle Investment Management’s sustainability industry involvement and accomplishments assessing and improving the environmental performance of buildings. LaSalle Investment Management’s commitment to sustainability is evident through the organizations in which we participate and the responsible investment initiatives that we implement throughout the life cycle of our investments. For examples of our sustainability United Nations Principles for accomplishments for select investment assets go to our website, and for more details on Responsible Investment (UNPRI) our industry involvement, see case studies on the right. In July 2009, LaSalle Investment LaSalle Investment Management’s acquisition checklist for responsible investing Management became a signatory to the UN’s PRI investor initiative (see UNPRI’s When acquiring a new property, LaSalle Investment Management utilizes an environmental homepage) and we have since submitted acquisition checklist adapted to specific country and regional requirements in order to evaluate our first PRI report, which documents our property environmental performance. For certain investments, this may also include a 2010 accomplishments. LaSalle Investment benchmark (e.g. LEED®) gap assessment for acquisitions. The results of these environmental Management’s alignment with this global mandate marked an important commitment analyses are included in the acquisition underwriting, which is subsequently presented to the by the Firm to begin a process over time regional investment committees as part of the overall investment decision reviews. wherein ESG criteria became integral to the investment decision criteria of the Firm. As LaSalle Investment Management’s Green Guide and Green Lease Guide for sustainable part of our PRI alignment, we have made a property operations commitment to report on our progress toward the six principles of responsible investing. We have developed a guide for our portfolio and asset managers to educate them about a variety of low or no-cost sustainable operational ‘best practices’. LaSalle Investment Management’s Green Guide was developed to help reduce energy and water consumption, increase recycling efforts, and reduce the overall carbon footprint of our managed real Greenprint global portfolio estate assets. In so doing, we anticipate that further benefits will include reduced operating expenses, increased valuations, and more competitive properties in their respective In June 2010, we committed 137 global markets. The guide can be viewed here. We also have a global Green Lease Guide for assets to the Greenprint Index – the first carbon footprint index of Greenprint regional teams to use when negotiating tenant contracts at our direct investment assets. Foundation (see link). The Foundation is comprised of several of the larger Sustainability ratings and certifications global investment managers and includes Jones Lang LaSalle’s CEO, Colin Dyer, LaSalle Investment Management invests globally in five different property types – office, as a founding member of the Board. The multi-family, retail, industrial, and hotel. Our investments are located in 19 different organization’s primary focus is on the energy countries, with varying investment structures, and varying control over property operations (carbon) reduction of the portfolio assets of as defined by lease requirements (gross and triple net leases). its founding members. LaSalle Investment Management’s contribution to this pilot Index The criteria that we use in our decision-making process for ratings and certifications depend represents our first meaningful step toward on the characteristics of the asset. For new developments, if there is an appropriate rating measuring and encouraging energy reduction and/or certification system in the country in which we are developing, we endeavor to meet in our global portfolios. LaSalle Investment the highest appropriate sustainability level for that investment consistent with the strategic Management achieved a 3% year-on-year plan for the asset. For existing assets, if there is a regionally appropriate rating and/or reduction (2009 2010) in energy and carbon certification for that property type, and we have some operational control at the asset, we usage for its benchmarked assets, with an aim to double its submission from 137 to 275 then assess the viability of the appropriate sustainability rating/certification. global assets during 2012 2013. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 51 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr To date, LaSalle Investment Management has certified a growing number of new Competitive and legislative development and existing global assets under benchmarking programs such as LEED®, requirements ENERGY STAR, Green Globes BREEAM and Green Mark. We have also developed case studies for select global assets, which can be viewed on our website. In each of our global regions, but increasingly from large European Tracking and monitoring sustainability metrics investors, we are seeing a requirement for LaSalle Investment Management to provide As with sustainability ratings and certifications, LaSalle Investment Management Environmental, Social, and Corporate determines whether to track and monitor sustainability metrics based on characteristics of Governance (ESG) policies, measurement the investment asset. If we control and/or pay for a meaningful portion of the utilities at an and performance data, and compliance with investment asset, we seek wherever possible to have our property teams track the utility emerging, investor-driven, best practice ESG information. For many longer-hold assets, we track sustainability metrics in our Greenprint reporting guidelines. The requests appear in portfolio. Greenprint’s software system compiles and stores the utility information for our RFPs and from investors as they consider global assets, allowing us to complete analysis on a property and portfolio basis and to our funds and separate account offerings, and are further supported by new ESG benchmark performance improvements over time. reporting standards for 2012 proposed by the European Association for Investors in NonSummary of 2011 global milestones listed Real Estate Vehicles (INREV). ▪ First United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) Report: It is noteworthy that it is no longer sufficient Submission of LaSalle Investment Management’s first annual UNPRI Report, reporting for these ‘ESG leading’ investors that on ESG progress, and demonstrating continual progress over time in the development LaSalle Investment Management simply and implementation of our ESG platform. has policies in place; rather, they are seeking evidence of implementation. In ▪ LaSalle Investment Management became a partner with Green Rating Alliance and an increasingly competitive environment, completed 29 European Green Rating Assessments. our objective is to meet and exceed these requirements as we pursue new and ▪ Second Greenprint Report: Greenprint’s second round of LaSalle Investment additional investor capital allocations. Management carbon and energy performance information submitted for performance tracking, demonstrating a 3% year-on-year reduction (2009-2010) in energy and carbon LaSalle Investment Management seeks to usage for our benchmarked assets. track and comply with the changing energy and sustainability regulatory requirements, ▪ Restructuring GSC: Restructuring of LaSalle Investment Management’s Global which are occurring at an increasing rate Sustainability Committee (GSC) to enable greater ownership and efficiency. Important within each of our global regions. When components of this restructuring included the creation of sub-committees tasked with developing or refurbishing an asset, specific strategic initiatives, the appointment of Regional Representatives, and the our teams take into account mandatory identification of GSC Subject Matter Experts tasked with periodic updates to the GSC requirements, and evaluate the viability of incorporating further sustainability on issues of critical importance, including market and client updates, global and regional measures into the design and construction research, and legal and regulatory compliance. of the asset. For existing assets, we seek ▪ 2009-2011: LaSalle Investment Management reporting contributions to Jones Lang to closely monitor and comply with on-going LaSalle’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report, Carbon Disclosure Project, and sustainability tracking regulations, examples of which would include Energy Performance Dow Jones Sustainability Index Response. Certificates (EPCs) and the Carbon ▪ 2009-2011: Global Certifications of select LaSalle Investment Management assets Reduction Commitment (CRC) requirements under a variety of regional and international sustainability branding platforms, including in the UK, as well as energy and sustainability LEED®, ENERGY STAR, Green Globes, BREEAM and Green Mark. disclosure mandates in the U.S. for New York and California. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 52 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr External stakeholder feedback – responding to Ceres Jones Lang LaSalle engaged with Ceres4 and a team of external stakeholders to review our 2011 CSR Report. The Ceres stakeholder team is an independent group of individuals primarily from the Ceres coalition and represents a range of constituencies that have expertise in environmental, social and governance issues. In reviewing this Report, the team considered whether the Company adequately reported on its sustainability performance and key impacts, including goals, targets, systems, data and initiatives. Through this review process, the Ceres stakeholder team provided extensive feedback to the Company, which was considered in the preparation of this Report. The following is a selection of feedback received from the Ceres stakeholder team in its February 2012 memorandum, as well as our response. What Ceres told us Relevant material issue and our response GHG emissions reduction target “The Company should set an enterpriseEnergy and climate: We committed to an energy reduction target for our U.S. managed portfolio wide GHG reduction goal for its own through the Better Buildings Challenge (20% energy reduction by 2020). We have been working to operations as well as its real estate establish an accurate baseline for our own greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions before committing to portfolio. Renewable energy could play an a percentage reduction target, which we are planning to reconsider in the near future. Regarding important part of meeting this target.” renewables, we have published information around our procurement of renewable energy for the first time in this Report on page 19. Other environmental issues “The Report could include more detail on Green buildings: Our materiality assessment did not identify water, land use, and waste management several key issues that are material for the as material issues. However, the process did identify ‘Green buildings’ as a material impact, which real estate sector, including water, land incorporates elements of these issues. As such, we have reported on water and waste initiatives for the use, and waste management.” first time this year on pages 32 and 33. Additionally, our internal sustainability program, ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’, addresses water conservation and waste management, details of which are also included in this Report on page 8. Gender; health and safety “The Company could better assess its Workplace, well-being and diversity: This year’s Report addresses both of these issues: we have diversity performance by looking at reported turnover by gender on page 42. Additionally, we detail health and safety metrics from around additional employee metrics, such as the world, including a comparison against industry benchmarks. turnover rates. This Report should also include stronger safety data outside the U.S.” Monitoring of Vendor Code of Conduct “The Company should provide details on Community commitment: In this Report, we discuss how we monitor implementation of several monitoring systems to ensure that corporate policies, such as the requirement for all employees to reaffirm their commitment to our Code corporate policies, including the Vendor of Ethics each year, but we appreciate that this area of disclosure can be improved. We seek to present Code of Conduct, are being effectively additional clarity in future reports, especially related to monitoring sustainability impacts within our implemented.” supply chain. Integrating financial and sustainability disclosure “Investors would like to see the Company Multiple material issues: We are seeking meaningful ways to capture the financial value of capturing and disclosing more long-term sustainability programs; however, this is a very complex area. As a progressive step, for the first time in return on investment data for its 2011, we disclose our direct revenue for Energy and Sustainability Services (on page 22). In relation to sustainability programs and disclosing the rest of our businesses that provide some form of sustainability provisions, it is difficult to isolate the this information in financial reports.” value of sustainability due to the integrated nature of sustainability into our service provision. 4 Ceres is a network of investors, environmentalists and other public interest groups that works with companies and investors to address sustainability challenges (see www.ceres.org for more information). Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 53 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr About this Report Scope and boundary of Report This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report presents our engagement in the material social, economic, environmental and governance matters that confront our Firm. It also documents our performance during the financial year ending December 31, 2011. The Report serves as an update from our last publication in September 2011. We plan to publish an annual update of this Report, but the format and approach is likely to change in future. The Report comprises the global reach of our real estate services across three principal business segments: the Americas; EMEA; and Asia Pacific. This Report also reflects the activities of LaSalle Investment Management, which is a global business and represents our fourth principal business segment. Data coverage Regarding the coverage of our CSR Survey, each year we attempt to include 100% of our known scope of offices and countries. However, this has not yet been achieved due to lack of information and/or non-participation from some Survey respondents. We measure data coverage as the total number of corporate offices that participate in the CSR Survey out of the total number of corporate offices within our carbon management system during a given calendar year. In 2010, we reported on 89% of our known operations, while in 2011 we reported on 99% of our known operations. External assurance We have chosen not to undertake a formal external assurance for this Report. However, we have applied strict procedures in regards to the compilation of facts and data and are confident that our Report represents a true and fair reflection of our performance at the time of publication. As our CSR efforts evolve, we will explore the possibility of seeking external assurance for future reports. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Jones Lang LaSalle has elected to report in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 sustainability reporting guidelines, according to a self-declared Level C. GRI is recognized as the leading sustainability reporting framework. In preparing this Report, we have also utilized some aspects of the GRI’s Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS), which provides sector-specific guidance to companies involved in construction and real estate activities. We were heavily involved in the Supplement's development; however, a majority of GRI CRESS is not applicable to our business on the whole. A detailed GRI content index can be found on page 58 of this Report. For further information about the GRI, visit here. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 54 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Data summary The following table provides a summary of data presented in this Report. Data qualifying notes for specific indicators can be found throughout the Report. Performance indicators' overview About us 2011 2010 2009 Introduction to Jones Lang LaSalle Portfolio size of managed properties worldwide (billion square feet) 2.1 1.8 1.6 Private and public property equity investments managed by LaSalle Investment Management 48 41 40 (billion $) Number of corporate offices 221 183 No comparable available Number of countries 52 46 No comparable available Number of employees 45,500 40,300 36,600 Number of corporate office employees (according to our carbon management system) 14,276 12,867 12,157 Key financials and statistics Revenue (million $) 3,584.5 2,925.6 2,480.7 Net income (loss) (million $) 164.0 153.5 (4.1) Diluted earnings (loss) ($ per diluted share) 3.70 3.48 (0.11) EBITDA (million $) 338.8 319.9 139.9 Sustainability and CSR governance Percentage of survey respondents (that mostly represent countries) with an annual written plan/ 44% Not available Not available objectives and/or a governance committee/local green teams Energy and climate 2011 2010 2009 Energy management for our clients Client energy savings U.S. managed portfolio (million kWh) 963 912 836 Client energy savings U.S. managed portfolio (million $) 105 128 100 Client GHG emissions reduction U.S. managed portfolio (metric tons CO2e) 587,000 563,000 465,000 Value creation from client GHG emissions reduction U.S. managed portfolio (billion $) 1.5 1.9 Not available Number of properties submitted to ENERGY STAR with a score of over 75 140 135 Not available Average rating for properties submitted to ENERGY STAR (as of August 2011) 74 73 Not available Renewable energy for our clients Capacity of client installed and consented renewable energy sources cumulative from 2007 793 483 Not available (MW capacity) Capacity of client planning and feasibility renewable energy sources cumulative from 2007 2,265 2,575 Not available (MW capacity) Client averted carbon from installed and consented renewable energy sources cumulative 1.22 0.74 Not available from 2007 (million metric tons CO2e per year) Client potentially averted carbon from planning and feasibility renewable energy sources 4.01 5.30 Not available cumulative from 2007 (million metric tons CO2e per year) Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance Jones Lang LaSalle total absolute GHG emissions GHG Protocol Scopes 1, 2 and some 3 49,003 43,797 37,461 (metric tons CO2e) Jones Lang LaSalle GHG emissions intensity (total emissions in metric tons CO2e/corporate office 3.43 3.40 3.08 employee) Jones Lang LaSalle corporate office GHG emissions intensity (building-related emissions in kg 8.95 10.68 9.46 CO2e/square feet/year) Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 55 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Energy and climate, continued 2011 2010 2009 Reducing our own carbon footprint Number of recorded greenhouse gas reduction initiatives 170 171 Not available Percentage of corporate offices with video conferencing and/or web conferencing 88% Not available Not available capability Percentage of corporate offices with an awareness campaign to promote video 61% Not available Not available conferencing and/or web conferencing where the capability exists Percentage of corporate offices that procure renewable energy 10% Not available Not available Disclosure score from Carbon Disclosure Project Supplier Program response 79 80 38 Client service excellence 2011 2010 2009 Providing high-quality services to clients Number of Energy and Sustainability Services employees 129 116 96 Number of Energy and Sustainability Services clients 334 196 Not available Energy and Sustainability Services revenue (million $) 19.3 17.0 Not available Energy and Sustainability Services revenue (% of global Firm revenue) 0.54% 0.59% Not available Percentage of major energy and sustainability mandates that were jointly delivered 62% Not available Not available Percentage of employees who feel leadership is committed to providing high-quality No 2011 survey 85% No 2009 survey services to external clients Using technology to advance our sustainability services offer Number of properties on the OneView Energy and Sustainability Analytics Platform 3,700 Not available Not available ‘Ethics Everywhere’ Ratio of ethics investigations to number of employees – 0.0029 0.0019 0.0027 see the ‘Ethics Everywhere’ data summary for details Ratio of actions taken against ethics violations to total number of investigations – 0.77* 0.68 0.65 see the ‘Ethics Everywhere’ data summary for details Percentage of employees who believe Jones Lang LaSalle No 2011 85% No 2009 survey shows a commitment to ethical conduct survey Sustainability thought leadership and research Number of thought leadership papers 38 28 Not available Number of posts on the Jones Lang LaSalle Green Blog 158 130 Not available Number of unique readers for the Jones Lang LaSalle Green Blog 41,000 39,000 Not available Number of unique website page views for the 23,500 28,900 Not available Jones Lang LaSalle Global Sustainability Perspective Green buildings 2011 2010 2009 Leading the way with green building certification and improvements Number of existing buildings where performance improvements have been 1,027 415 Not available achieved through Jones Lang LaSalle’s Energy and Sustainability Services team Number of new buildings where performance improvements have been 31 27 Not available achieved through Jones Lang LaSalle’s Energy and Sustainability Services team Training our employees on green building trends Total number of green building accredited professionals (cumulative to year-end 2011) 1,075 624 Not available Greening our own office portfolio Percentage of corporate offices with a green building standard 6% 5% Not available Percentage of new corporate offices with green building standards 17% Not available Not available Percentage of revised occupancy strategies that considered sustainability 72% Not available Not available Percentage of corporate offices with an Alternative Workplace Strategy 44% Not available Not available Data qualification notes: The asterisk (*) in 2011 ‘Ratio of actions taken to total number of investigations’ refers to the following assumption: where multiple actions were taken on one investigation, we counted it as one investigation for purposes of the ratio. Some investigations are continuing and therefore have not yet been closed or resolved. Others were resolved with non-disciplinary action. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 56 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Green buildings, continued 2011 2010 2009 Experts in green leases Percentage of leases with green language in our occupied space 39% 34% Not available Thinking holistically: how waste and water contribute to a greener building Percentage of corporate offices with water reduction initiatives 12% Not available Not available Percentage of corporate offices with waste management initiatives 66% Not available Not available Community commitment 2011 2010 2009 Making a global impact Charitable initiative spend, including corporate and employee donations (million $) 4.29 1.86 Not available Charitable initiative spend, including corporate and employee donations, as a percentage of 1.9% 0.9% Not available pre-tax profit Number of volunteering days 2,228 534 Not available Procuring green office and kitchen supplies Green office and kitchen supply spend (million $) 1.15 0.71 Not available Green office and kitchen supply spend (percentage of total spend) 30% 17% Not available Workplace, well-being and diversity 2011 2010 2009 Diversity in our business Total employees by gender (female) 34% 34% Not available Directors by gender (female) 26% 25% Not available Employees by age (under 25) 8% 7% Not available Employees by age (25-34) 47% 34% Not available Employees by age (35-44) 19% 25% Not available Employees by age (45-55) 19% 22% Not available Employees by age (over 55) 7% 12% Not available Board members by gender (female) 27% 27% Not available Number of recorded diversity and inclusion initiatives 84 Not available Not available Employee engagement and satisfaction Employee turnover 23% 27% Not available New starters (percentage of total employees) 35% 34% Not available Employee turnover (males) 23% Not available Not available Employee turnover (females) 24% Not available Not available Percentage of revenue generated by countries that utilized the ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ program 87% 87% Not available Percentage of employees who can see a clear link between their work No 2011 survey 72% No 2009 survey and the vision of Jones Lang LaSalle Percentage of employees who feel the people they work with cooperate to get No 2011 survey 82% No 2009 survey the job done Percentage of employees who agree that overall, they are extremely satisfied with No 2011 survey 71% No 2009 survey this Company Training and development Training and development spend per employee (million $) 10.5 7.1 Not available Training and development spend per employee ($) 248 182 Not available Percentage of employees who received performance and career development reviews 82% 83% Not available Sustainability training Number of Sustainability University attendees 2,619 1,194 Not available Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 57 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Workplace, well-being and diversity, continued 2011 2010 2009 Maintaining a safe and healthy working environment for our clients and ourselves Recordable cases incidence (RIR) rate for Integrated Facilities Management 0.74 Not available Not available globally + all employees in U.S. Days away and restricted time (DART) rate for Integrated Facilities Management 0.53 Not available Not available globally + all employees in U.S. Number of recorded health and safety initiatives 105 69 Not available Labor standards and labor relations Number of employees that belong to a labor union 1,228 990 Not available ‘Ethics Everywhere’ data summary Type of concern investigated 2011 2010 2009 Improper employment practices or behavior, including unprofessional conduct (whether by 72 39 43 managers or between employees) Employee theft, personal conflicts of interest or other employee fraud (including expense account 31 16 21 and time-card fraud) Improper vendor payments or conflicts of interest, or other improper conduct to or by vendors 10 6 6 Improper client payments or conflicts of interest, or other improper conduct to or by clients 1 0 0 Inappropriate use of the internet or business computer 4 3 8 Inappropriate entertainment 0 0 0 Compliance with competition laws/broker requirements 5 1 2 Falsification of books and records 2 5 2 Illegal drug use at work; inappropriate use of alcohol 1 1 3 Employment health or safety issues from ethics perspective 0 4 1 Privacy issues 0 0 0 Miscellaneous matters (including non-ethics matters referred to HR for resolution) 7 2 14 Total number of investigations 133 77 100 Total number of employees (approximate at December 31, 2011 and rounded to nearest 1,000) 45,000 40,000 37,000 Ratio of investigations to number of employees 0.0029 0.0019 0.0027 Action taken 2011 2010 2009 Terminations of employment 50 4 26 Job changes or transfers; changes to procedures 13 8 5 Employee arrests and criminal matters referred to prosecutors (in addition to termination of 3 1 1 employment) Formal warnings, deferred promotions and/or reduced bonuses 15 5 10 Matters referred to government agency or other legal actions taken 0 2 0 Either (1) additional ethics awareness training sessions, (2) training on being better managers or 32 32 23 (3) training on better communication skills Total actions 113 52 65 Ratio of actions taken to total number of investigations 0.77* 0.68 0.65 Data qualification notes: The asterisk (*) in 2011 ‘Ratio of actions taken to total number of investigations’ refers to the following assumption: where multiple actions were taken on one investigation, we counted it as one investigation for purposes of the ratio. Some investigations are continuing and therefore have not yet been closed or resolved. Others were resolved with non-disciplinary action. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 58 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr GRI content index The following table outlines our compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS) guidelines (2011). Based on this analysis we self-declare that this Report achieves GRI Application Level ‘C’. Please note that GRI disclosures identified as ‘not material’ have not been listed in the table below. Furthermore, a number of indicators – while material – have not been reported due to the unavailability of data. A full list of GRI disclosures can be found on the GRI website listed here. ● Fully reported ● Partially reported Profile disclosures 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced About this Report: Scope GRI disclosure Status Where to find it operations, and other entities that can ● and boundary of Report significantly affect comparability from period to Strategy and analysis period and/or between organizations 1.1 CEO statement In conversation with our ● CEO 3.10 Effects of any restatements of information Throughout Report: Data provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for ● qualification notes Organizational profile such restatement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 2.1 Name of the organization ● About us periods in the scope, boundary, or ● About this Report: Data coverage measurement methods 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services ● About us GRI content index 2.3 Operational structure ● About us 3.12 GRI Content Index ● GRI content index 2.4 Location of headquarters ● About us Governance, commitments and engagement 2.5 Countries of operation ● About us Governance 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● About us 4.1 Governance structure ▪ Governance 2.7 Markets served ● About us ▪ Workplace, well-being and ● diversity: Diversity at 2.8 Scale of organization ● About us Board level and within each region 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting About us period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● 4.2 Indication whether the Chair of the highest Governance governance body is also an executive officer ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ▪ Our 2011 CSR and sustainability awards 4.3 Number of Board members that are Governance ● ▪ In conversation with our independent and/or non-executive Directors ● CEO 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees ▪ Governance Report parameters to provide recommendations or direction to the ▪ Workplace, well-being highest governance body and diversity: Employee Report profile engagement and ● satisfaction 3.1 Reporting period About this Report: Scope ● and boundary of Report ▪ Contact us: Communicating with our 3.2 Date of most recent previous Report About this Report: Scope Board of Directors ● and boundary of Report Stakeholder engagement 3.3 Reporting cycle About this Report: Scope ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the CSR and sustainability and boundary of Report organization ● strategy: Our stakeholders 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Contact us Report or its contents ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of CSR and sustainability stakeholders with whom to engage strategy: Our stakeholders Report scope and boundary ● (see also our 2010 CSR Report) 3.5 Process for defining Report content, including: CSR and sustainability ▪ Determining materiality strategy: Note to users: Click on section titles in ‘Where to find it’ column to navigate the Report. ▪ Prioritizing topics within the Report ▪ Jones Lang LaSalle’s ● material CSR and ▪ Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the Report sustainability issues ▪ Our stakeholders 3.6 Boundary of the Report About this Report: Scope ● and boundary of Report 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the About this Report: Scope Report ● and boundary of Report Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 59 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Performance indicators EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Energy and climate: emissions and reductions achieved. ▪ Energy management for Economic Status Where to find it (Additional) ● our clients ▪ Reducing our own carbon Economic performance footprint EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, ▪ About us including revenues, operating costs, Products and services ▪ Jones Lang LaSalle employee compensation, donations and other 2011 Annual Report: EN26 Initiatives to enhance and mitigate Green buildings: community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and ● Financial statements and environmental impacts of products and ▪ Leading the way with supplementary data services, and extent of impact mitigation. green building certifications governments. (Core) ▪ Community commitment: (Core) ● and improvements Making a global impact ▪ Our Real Estate Services and the property EC2 Financial implications and other risks and ▪ Carbon Disclosure lifecycle opportunities for the organization’s activities Project 2012 response due to climate change. (Core) ▪ Jones Lang LaSalle Compliance ● 2011 Annual Report: Environmental liabilities EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Client service excellence: number of non-monetary sanctions for ‘Ethics Everywhere’ and regulations: Climate non-compliance with environmental laws and ● change risks regulations. (Core) EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit ▪ Jones Lang LaSalle plan obligations. (Core) 2011 Annual Report: EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Energy and climate: Financial statements and transporting products and other goods Understanding our own ● supplementary data and materials used for the organization’s ● emissions and reporting operations, and transporting members of the performance ▪ Workplace, well-being workforce. (Additional) and diversity: Employee benefits and compensation Social: labor practices and decent work Environmental Employment Energy LA1 Total workforce by employment type, ▪ About us employment contract, and region, broken ▪ Workplace, well-being and EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy ▪ Carbon Disclosure down by gender (Core) ● diversity: Diversity in our source. (Core) Project 2012 response business ▪ Energy and climate: ● Understanding our own LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires Workplace, well-being and emissions and reporting turnover by age group, gender, and region. ● diversity: Employee performance (Core) engagement and satisfaction EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Energy and climate: Labor/management relations source. (Core) Understanding our own ● emissions and reporting LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Workplace, well-being and performance collective bargaining agreements. (Core) ● diversity: Labor standards and labor relations EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Energy and climate: efficiency improvements. (Additional) ● Energy management for Occupational health and safety our clients LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Workplace, well-being and EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Energy and climate: days, and absenteeism, and total number diversity: Maintaining a or renewable energy based products ▪ Energy management for of work-related fatalities by region and by ● safe and healthy working and services, and reductions in energy ● our clients gender (Core) environment for our clients requirements as a result of these initiatives. ▪ Renewable energy for our and ourselves (Additional) clients Training and education EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Energy and climate: LA10 Average hours of training per year per Workplace, well-being and consumption and reductions achieved. ▪ Reducing our own carbon employee by gender and by employee ● diversity: Training and (Additional) ● footprint category. (Core) development ▪ Energy management for our clients LA11 Programs for skills management and Workplace, well-being and lifelong learning that support the continued diversity: Training and Emissions, effluents, and waste employability of employees and assist them ● development in managing career endings. (Additional) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas ▪ Carbon Disclosure emissions by weight. (Core) Project 2012 response LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Workplace, well-being and ● ▪ Energy and climate: performance and career development ● diversity: Training and Understanding our own reviews, by gender. (Additional) development emissions and reporting performance Diversity and equal opportunity EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas ▪ Carbon Disclosure LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Workplace, well-being and emissions by weight. (Core) Project 2012 response breakdown of employees per employee diversity: ▪ Energy and climate: category according to gender, age group, ● ▪ Diversity in our business ● Understanding our own minority group membership, and other ▪ Diversity at Board level indicators of diversity. (Core) and within each region emissions and reporting performance Note to users: Click on section titles in ‘Where to find it’ column to navigate the Report. CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from ▪ Carbon Disclosure buildings. (Core) Project 2012 response ▪ Energy and climate: ● Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 60 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Social: Society Status Where to find it Compliance Corruption SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Client service excellence: number of non-monetary sanctions for non● ‘Ethics Everywhere’ SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Client service excellence: compliance with laws and regulations. (Core) organization’s anti-corruption policies and ● ‘Ethics Everywhere’ procedures. (Core) Social: Product responsibility SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Data Summary: ‘Ethics Product and service labeling corruption. (Core) ● Everywhere’ data summary CRE8 Type and number of sustainability Green buildings: Public policy certification, rating and labeling schemes for ▪ Leading the way new construction, management, occupation with green building SO5 Public policy positions and participation in Client service excellence: and redevelopment. (Core) public policy development and lobbying. ● Shaping policy from the front ● certifications and (Core) improvements ▪ Greening our own office SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind Client service excellence: portfolio contributions to political parties, politicians, ● Shaping policy from the front and related institutions by country. (Additional) Marketing communications Anti-competitive behavior PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Client service excellence: non-compliance with laws and regulations ‘Ethics Everywhere’ SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiClient service excellence: concerning the provision and use of products ● competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly ● ‘Ethics Everywhere’ and services. (Core) practices and their outcomes. (Additional) Note to users: Click on section titles in 'Where to find it' column to navigate the Report. United Nations Global Compact content index The UN Global Compact is an initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and CSR strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Jones Lang LaSalle is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and is committed to adhering to its ten principles. The following table provides references This is our Communication on or commentary to help readers navigate to sections of our CSR Report where we discuss relevant Progress in implementing the UN Global Compact principles. This CSR Report represents our annual Communication on Progress principles of the United Nations Global Compact. submission to the Compact. For more information on this initiative please visit the We welcome feedback on its UN Global Compact website. contents. UN Global Compact Principles Where to find it or commentary Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the At Jones Lang LaSalle, we value and respect the rights of all our workers, and we are committed to the protection of human protection of internationally proclaimed rights. Our approach to protecting human rights is embodied by our Code of Ethics and our commitment to integrity. We are human rights. committed to aligning our policies with international conventions and declarations. We also observe internationally-recognized standards for the protection of human rights. Employees at Jones Lang LaSalle must comply with our human rights policies, Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are as well as our principles against harassment and discrimination. Additional information about our human rights policies can be not complicit in human rights abuses. found in our Code of Ethics (see here). Labor standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Generally, our employees are not members of any labor unions with the exception of a relatively small number of directly association and the effective recognition reimbursable property maintenance employees in the United States. Jones Lang LaSalle has always maintained a healthy of the right to collective bargaining. relationship with union employees, supported the right to exercise freedom of association, and complied with the provisions expressed in collective bargaining agreements. Additional information within this Report can be found in the Workplace, well-being and diversity section: Labor standards and labor relations. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination We have strong policies against forced or compulsory labor. Please view additional information in our Code of Ethics of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. (see here). Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective We have well-established practices against child labor. Information about our child labor policies can be found in our Code of abolition of child labor. Ethics (see here). Additional information within this Report can be found in the Workplace, well-being and diversity section: Labor standards and labor relations. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination Information about our anti-discrimination policies can be found in our Code of Ethics (see here). of discrimination in respect of employment Additional information within this Report can be found in the Workplace, well-being and diversity section: and occupation. ▪ Diversity in our business ▪ Diversity at Board level and within each region Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback 61 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2011 CSR Report Read more at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Information about our proactive approach to the environment within this Report can be found in the following sections: approach to environmental challenges. Our approach: Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to ▪ Two key pillars for delivering our commitment promote greater environmental responsibility. ▪ Jones Lang LaSalle’s material CSR and sustainability issues Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the Energy and climate section (within most sub-sections) development and diffusion of environmentally Client service excellence section (within most sub-sections) friendly technologies. Green buildings section (within most sub-sections) Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Information about anti-corruption policies can be found in our Code of Ethics (see here). all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Additional information within this Report can be found in the Workplace, well-being and diversity and Addendum, data and feedback sections: ▪ ‘Ethics Everywhere’ ▪ ‘Ethics Everywhere’ data summary Note to users: Click on section titles in ‘Where to find it’ column to navigate the Report. Contact us We encourage our stakeholders to contact us for more information about CSR at Jones Lang LaSalle, to give suggestions on how we can develop our CSR and sustainability programs, and to learn more about our sustainability services. Please contact: Dan Probst Global Head of Energy and Sustainability Services Jones Lang LaSalle 200 East Randolph Drive Chicago, IL 60601 +1 312 782 5800 dan.probst@am.jll.com www.joneslanglasalle.com Sarah Nicholls Senior Consultant | Global CSR Team Jones Lang LaSalle 22 Hanover Square London W1S 1JA +44 20 7399 5244 sarah.nicholls@eu.jll.com www.joneslanglasalle.com Communicating with our Board of Directors Shareholders and interested parties may communicate directly with our Board of Directors. If you wish to do so, please send an e-mail to boardofdirectors@am.jll.com, which our Corporate Secretary will forward to all Directors. If you wish to communicate only with our non-executive Directors, or specifically with any Director individually (including our Chairman of the Board, who serves as the Lead Independent Director, or the Chairman of any of our Committees), please note this on your e-mail. Alternatively, you may send a communication by mail to any or all of our Directors, or specifically to any or all of our non-executive Directors, care of our Corporate Secretary at the address of our principal executive office set forth above, and our Corporate Secretary will forward it unopened to the intended recipient(s). COPYRIGHT © JONES LANG LASALLE IP, INC. 2012. This publication is the sole property of Jones Lang LaSalle IP, Inc. and must not be copied, reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, either in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Jones Lang LaSalle IP, Inc. The information contained in this publication has been obtained from sources generally regarded to be reliable. However, no representation is made, or warranty given, in respect of the accuracy of this information. We would like to be informed of any inaccuracies so that we may correct them. Jones Lang LaSalle does not accept any liability in negligence or otherwise for any loss or damage suffered by any party resulting from reliance on this publication. Who we are Our approach Energy & climate Client service excellence Green buildings Community commitment Workplace, well-being & diversity Addendum, data & feedback
