Index 03 > FOREWORD 04 > INTERVIEW 07 > FINANCIAL RESULTS 08 > KEY FIGURES 09 > CSR MAIN ACCOMPLISHMENTS Governance 12 > OUR ORGANIZATION 20 > OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Environment 28 > MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Society 44 > BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR CUSTOMERS 52 > PROMOTING A RESPONSIBLE HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY 60 > CONTRIBUTING TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT 68 > ANNEXES The information in this report relates to the 2011 ﬁnancial year, started on 1 January, 2011 and ended on 31 December, 2011. Where information relates to a different time frame, this is explicitly stated. Report published in April 2012. 2 Foreword “Air France-KLM remains committed to assuming its responsibilities.” A ir transportation has seen considerable It is thanks to the mobilization of everyone across Group remains strongly mobilized in favor of a change over the past decade with the the company that we will return to the path of susworldwide system applying globally and equitably liberalization and opening of the world tainable and proﬁtable growth while remaining true to all carriers and supports the efforts of ICAO in economy encouraging the emergence to our values. Amongst these values, and despite this respect. of new players. The competition from the low cost the crisis we are traversing, I remain personally This engagement in sustainable development, reoperators, Gulf State carriers and airlines in the very attached to Air France-KLM’s commitment to ﬂected in our becoming a signatory of the United emerging countries represents a considerable sustainable development in its three inseparable Nations Global Compact and enshrined in our challenge. This is the new context currently facdimensions: economic, social and environmental. Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ing us, compounded by the combined effects of Social Rights and Ethics Charter, I hereby reafﬁrm. an unprecedented economic crisis and a steep Air transport must continue to pursue its mission rise in oil prices which are reaching record highs. of connecting people, to continue to act as a Despite the uncertainties of the current economic driver of economic activity and social progress, environment, Air France-KLM remains committed After three years of crisis and against a backdrop its development must be reconciled with respect to assuming its responsibilities. of signiﬁcant uncertainty, the European air transport for the environment. industry as a whole is increasingly fragile. Faced with this situation, it was crucial for Air France-KLM Air France-KLM has long been pursuing an ambiJEAN-CYRIL SPINETTA to react and re-establish conﬁdence. tious environmental policy reﬂected, notably, in the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer regular updating of its ﬂeet. of the Air France-KLM Group This is why the Group’s Board of Directors has set three priorities: restoring competitiveness implying In a constructive spirit, Air France-KLM has always a reduction in costs, restructuring the short and supported the application to aviation of a CO2 medium-haul operations, and rapidly reducing emission quotas system. Having been in force debt. These strategic orientations, which require since January 1, 2012, the EU-ETS directive now a change in business model, will be implemented applies to all ﬂights to and from Europe. Faced by both Air France and KLM through a three-year with the strong opposition from non-European transformation plan, Transform 2015. States and the risk that the system potentially poses for the competitiveness of the European air transport industry, a compromise solution must be found. One avenue could be to limit its application, initially, to the European air space. The CSR REPORT 2011 3 Interview A look back at the Group’s situation in 2011 and the outlook for the next few years 2011 was marked by the slowdown in global ecoglobal sector. Global by its very nature but also KLM actively supports the creation of a fullynomic growth and by signiﬁcant market volatility, due to its operating modes, the regulations that ﬂedged biofuels industry but we won’t be able particularly in Europe. The geopolitical events in govern the industry and the highly diverse social to achieve this alone. We are working with our Africa and the Middle East unleashed in Decemmodels on which it is based. partners and all the players in the supply chain ber 2010, and the earthquake in Japan during Within a context of growing worldwide demand on the establishment of a ﬁnancially-viable market March 2011 also weighed on the economies of for air transportation, particularly in the emerging that is sustainable on a large scale. Air France these countries and those of their trading partners. countries, globalization has encouraged the emerand KLM are amongst the ﬁrst airlines to have Alexandre de Juniac, Chairman and Chief Exgence of new players and intensiﬁed competition operated commercial ﬂights using biofuel and are ecutive Ofﬁcer of Air France and Peter Hartman, across the entire range of products and services. resolutely committed to pursing this avenue. President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of KLM, take The leading European airlines thus need to adapt a look back at the main trends shaping the Air their business models. WHAT IS THE AIR FRANCE-KLM France-KLM Group's activity in 2011 and at the At the same time, customer behaviour has seen GROUP’S CURRENT SITUATION outlook for the next few years. profound change with price becoming a key factor. AND HOW ARE THINGS LOOKING New technologies have completely transformed FOR THE NEXT FEW YEARS? COULD YOU GIVE US AN the relationship between customers and airlines OVERALL PICTURE OF with customers now expecting more responsiveALEXANDRE DE JUNIAC— The deterioration in THE RECENT TRENDS FOR THE ness to keep them informed on a real-time basis. competitiveness and the insufﬁcient proﬁtability AIR TRANSPORT INDUSTRY? at Air France-KLM led the Board of Directors to PETER HARTMAN— In this rapidly-changing set a series of strategic objectives and propose a ALEXANDRE DE JUNIAC— One of the main world, social and environmental considerations plan to transform the business over a three-year characteristics of air transportation is that it is a remain a top priority and air transportation stands period between 2012 and 2014. ready to assume its responsibilities. Within a conWe have been working with KLM on the practitext of soaring fossil fuel prices, climate change cal implementation of the Transform 2015 plan represents a major challenge and an overall sector which will comprise two phases. The ﬁrst phase, response needs to be found at global level. Ahead announced in January 2012, has been reﬂected of this, we continue to deploy all the levers at our disposal to reduce our carbon footprint. Over the medium to long term, signiﬁcant use of sustainable biofuel alternatives is key. Air France“Sustainable development remains a cornerstone of the Group’s strategy, reflecting our commitment to corporate social responsibility.” PETER HARTMAN President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of KLM “The Transform plan respects three principles: equitable application across all employee categories, maintaining investment in flight safety and improving the quality of the service offered to our customers.” ALEXANDRE DE JUNIAC Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Air France in the implementation of immediate measures to ing productivity in all employee categories, redeﬁnate scale. To restore its proﬁtability, cargo is the reduce costs while the second, to be presented ing the product, and restructuring the main netsubject of speciﬁc measures within the framework in June, aims to completely transform the Group, work and those of the regional airline subsidiaries. of the transformation plan. Some of these measand particularly Air France, with an in-depth reform We also plan to improve the ﬁnancial performance ures are already under way, speciﬁcally network of its organization and working methods. of the long-haul ﬂeet. This will entail improving optimization and a new commercial strategy. For The plan respects three principles which I shall the productivity of all relevant staff, increasing example, KLM and Kenya Airways are the ﬁrst be monitoring very closely: equitable application capacity through better utilization of the existing airlines to offer a direct cargo service between the across all employee categories, maintaining our long-haul ﬂeet and reinforcing our presence in Guangdong industrial region in China and Nairobi. investment in ﬂight safety and working conditions growing markets. This network, known as Safari Connection, conand a resolute focus on improving the quality of nects Europe, China and Africa, thereby offering the service offered to our customers. HOW ARE THINGS LOOKING customers a rapid and effective cargo solution. FOR THE GROUP'S CARGO AND PETER HARTMAN— One of the Group’s prioriMAINTENANCE BUSINESSES? ALEXANDRE DE JUNIAC— For the aeronautics ties is to restructure the short and medium-haul maintenance sector, we want to consolidate our operations. The short and medium-haul network PETER HARTMAN— The cargo business was position within a very competitive environment. remains key to Air France-KLM’s development in seriously affected by the fall-off in demand during In 2011, we were able to maintain our market that it meets the needs of passengers traveling the 2011 second half despite the restructuring shares. This performance was all the more rewithin Europe, while feeding the long-haul ﬂights measures in place for the past year. IATA ﬁgures markable in that the economic crisis did not leave departing from the dual and complementary hubs show global air freight volumes declining by some the aeronautics maintenance market unscathed of Roissy-CDG and Amsterdam-Schiphol. 5% in the 2011 second half while, over the same with the airlines introducing schedule adaptation Since the 2008 crisis, the structurally negative period, global trade fell by only 1%. measures and scaling back older ﬂeets. There was trend in unit revenues has led to deepening opThe Asian market saw the biggest decline due to also signiﬁcant pressure on prices driven by both erating losses in this business amounting to some the reduction in European demand for products €700 million in 2011. To return to break even, the manufactured in Asia and, in particular, China. The Group is working on a complete transformation of trans-Atlantic markets partially offset this loss and this activity: increasing aircraft utilization, improvsynergies were identiﬁed thanks to the integration of Martinair Cargo. Air France-KLM plans to pursue its strategic repositioning by focusing on the new belly-dominant business model using passenger aircraft supplemented by a full freighter offer on the appropriCSR REPORT 2011 5 tougher competition between maintenance operabusiness in a sustainable manner and our ability to preservation of the quality of the industrial base. tors and the expectations of airline customers. adapt to the new developments with which we are The second aspect concerns the quality of the However, the growth prospects for this market faced. We are aware of our responsibility and the product and services proposition for customers. look very positive, given the numerous orders need to reconcile growth with sustainability prinA process to completely renew our offering is being placed with the main manufacturers. Our ciples, and our ambition is to set new standards already underway ranging from standards of inexpertise, particularly in high value-added serof excellence in corporate social responsibility by ﬂight comfort to welcoming our passengers on vices, is recognized by our many customers. This mobilizing all our stakeholders. the ground. We listen to our customers, focussing is why the Group plans to focus on its strengths Our mobilization around four key priorities deon their needs in order to constantly improve their and continue its investment aimed at remaining monstrates a determination to act in a proﬁtable satisfaction and we strive to make our product a a major player in this business. but sustainable way, protecting the environment, global reference. offering our customers high standards of service AGAINST THIS DIFFICULT and innovative products, pursuing a responsible BACKDROP, WHAT ROLE CAN HR policy and contributing to the regions we serve. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PLAY WITHIN AIR FRANCE-KLM’S ALEXANDRE DE JUNIAC— I would like to come STRATEGY? back to two aspects of sustainable development which are also conditions for the success of the PETER HARTMAN— Sustainable development Transform 15 plan. Firstly, any transformation remains a cornerstone of the Group's strategy, project must be based on a responsible HR policy. reﬂecting both our commitment to conducting Our Group is going to see a profound transformation of its operating modes in its three businesses – passenger, cargo and maintenance – which will concern all categories of staff. Our priorities will be a transparent social dialogue, equitable application across all employee categories and the 6 Financial results FINANCIAL RESULTS 2011 REVENUES €24,363 m For the period between January 1 and December 31, 2011 (12 months), Air France-KLM's consolidated revenues amounted to €24.36 billion, up by 4.5% on the previous ﬁnancial year. RESULT FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS Over twelve months, the result from current operations was a negative €353 million (versus income €-353 m of €28 million at December 31, 2010). BREAKDOWN OF REVENUES BY SECTOR BREAKDOWN OF PASSENGER REVENUES OF ACTIVITY 2011 (percentages) BY NETWORK 2011 (percentages) 13% 18% 8% SOUTH AMERICA CARGO ASIA-PACIFIC 77% 4% 18% 13% AFRICA & THE PASSENGER AVIATION NORTH TRANSPORT MAINTENANCE AMERICA MIDDLE EAST 6% 36% 7% OTHER BUSINESSES (CATERING, CHARTERS, ETC.) EUROPE CARIBEAN & INDIAN OCEAN DISTRIBUTION OF THE GROUP’S REVENUE Through its business activity and investments Air France-KLM contributes to economic development where the Group is based and in the countries it serves. €2,199 m €408 m €604 m €1,421 m Repayment Industrial Aeronautical Fleet of debt Loan €1,414 m Investments and development €1,170 m Disposal of aircraft and financial assets Airports Revenues €2,286 m State & local Taxes on €24,363 m authorities tickets (2011-12 data, Passengers Cargo Maintenance not included in turnover) Expenses €212 m €13 m €749 m €1,069 m €6,438 m €7,261 m €7,460 m State & local Non-proﬁt Airports Air trafﬁc control Suppliers Other suppliers Employees authorities (sponsorship) (fees) (en route charges) (fuel) (Payroll tax (taxes & fees) € 1.939 m) CSR REPORT 2011 7 Key figures 230 DESTINATIONS IN 113 COUNTRIES (Summer 2012m) 586 aircraft in operation 102,000 employees 71.78 million passengers carried 1.45 million tons of cargo 9.7 years 3.7 average age of the ﬂeet liters/passenger/100 km 8 CSR main accomplishments KEY FIGURES KLM AND WWF-NL KLM renewed its strategic partnership with WWF-The Netherlands for another 4 years. -32% Reduction of For further information, see page 37 noise hindrance since 2000 BIOFUELS -14% TO NEW WAYS OF Air France and KLM operated the world’s ﬁrst two commercial WORKING passenger ﬂights using sustainable biofuels which did not require any changes to the engines. KLM experimented new ways of Reduction working, offering ﬂexibility in terms of of relative CO2 For further information, see pages 36 and 37 working location and working hours. emission since 60 employees of two different 2000 departments participated in this pilot. For further For further information, see page 57 information, see pages 32 and 33 SUPERSECTOR LEADER DJSI 2011 For the 7th time in a row, the Group became no. 1 of the airline sector on the Dow Jones Sustainablility Index and for the 3rd time leader of the FURTHER INTEGRATING “Travel and Leisure” supersector. This recognition places the Group in SUSTAINABILITY the world's 19 most sustainable companies listed on the DJSI. IN PRODUCTS AND For further information, see page 23 SERVICES 9 new sustainable catering products offered by KLM RENEWAL OF AIR FRANCE’S ISO 14001 New reusable headphones on ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION Air France long-haul ﬂights, offering a better quality of hearing, and saving Renewal of Air France’s ISO 14001 Environmental Certiﬁcation for a 400 tons of waste per ton. further 3 years. The audit demonstrated the progress made in all of the company’s businesses. For further information, see pages 49 and 50 For further information, see page 38 HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK CONTINUATION OF Progress was made by reducing the accident rate: STRONG COMMITMENT TO 10% reduction in the frequency rate of work related DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS accident at Air France AT OUR DESTINATIONS decline in the number of serious accidents down 13.2 million euros in funding for social and from 11 to 4 at KLM environmental projects For further information, see page 56 For further information, see pages 66 and 67 AIR FRANCE CONTINUED TO PURSUE ITS COMMITMENTS TO PROMOTE DIVERSITY Third 3-year agreement on gender equality 8th agreement in favour of the employment of people with disabilities, and €13 million dedicated to sheltered sector For further information, see page 58 CSR REPORT 2011 9 10 Governance CSR REPORT 2011 11 Air transport is one of the drivers of the global economy Air France-KLM is aware of its responsibilities and the issues recontributing to economic and social progress. The induslated to its growth. The Group’s ambition is to setting the standard try brings together the world’s people, economies and culin terms of CSR through a pragmatic approach and to maintaining tures, facilitates access to international markets and proits leading position within the air transport industry by mobilizing all motes growth in trade and tourism. of its resources and employees. With 2.8 billion passengers and 45.5 million tons transported in The Group has chosen to create value for society by increasing its 20111, air transport contributes some 9% of worldwide GDP2 positive impact and reducing its negative impact. This is achieved whose growth is also directly playing a major role in the performby minimizing its environmental footprint, providing innovative and ance of other industries. The airline sector is operating in a highly high quality services for its customers, promoting a responsible competitive environment and remains a highly cyclical business. social policy and contributing to the developement of places where it operates. Air France-KLM is keeping its promises by implementing responsible governance and integrating sustainability in business and operations. 1. Source: IATA, 2012 2. Source: World Travel and Tourism Council Conference, December 2011 12 Presenting THE GROUP’S KEY STRENGTHS The Air France-KLM Group comprises a single holding OUR KEY STRENGTHS: FLEET, With every dollar company and two airlines, Air France and KLM, each of NETWORK, ALLIANCE which retains its own brand and identity. increase in the Its three main businesses are passenger transport, cargo Air France-KLM offers the largest international network, price of oil resulting transport and aviation maintenance services, for its own built around its two coordinated hubs, Roissy-CDG and ﬂeet and those of other airlines. Amsterdam-Schiphol. The dual hub system is one of in an additional the cornerstones of the Group’s strategy where smaller $1.6 billion for the SPECIFIC CONSTRAINTS ﬂows of European and regional trafﬁc connect with intercontinental ﬂights. This enables a high frequency of industry. As a facilitator of international trade and business, the ﬂights, whilst limiting the overlap of destinations served airline industry is directly impacted by macro economic by the two airlines: 70% of long-haul destinations and trends, particularly since airlines operate in a highly competitive environment with limited operating margins. One of these trend factors is the volatility and long-term upward trend of oil prices. Over the past ten years, the cost of fuel as a percentage of total air transport costs 60% of medium-haul destinations are served by just one of the two carriers. As aircraft are the main asset of its business, the Group invests in its ﬂeet on a continual basis and operates one of the youngest and most efﬁcient ﬂeets in its category: 586 Air France-KLM aircraft in operation has risen from 13% to 30%, with every dollar increase 586 aircraft in operation, average age 9.7 years. This in the price of oil resulting in an additional $1.6 billion for investment means that Air France-KLM is able to provide the industry (IATA, 2011). better passenger comfort and make signiﬁcant fuel savRegulations that aim to reduce air transport’s impact on ings, in line with the Group's CSR commitments. ( For climate change are also resulting in additional burdens, further information, see page 70) such as the inclusion of airlines in the European Emissions Air France and KLM are members of SkyTeam, the Trading Scheme (EU-ETS) on the 1st of January 2012. The second largest alliance in the world in 2011 with a Association of European Airlines (AEA) estimates that the 19% market share, 15 member airlines and 926 desoverall cost of EU-ETS to airlines ﬂying to and from Europe tinations served in 173 countries. The arrival of China between 2012 and 2020 will be €17.5 billion. Airlines and China Eastern means that SkyTeam is In addition, ever stricter regulations are also applied to now the largest alliance in China, which represents a consumer protection and security, resulting in more rekey asset in this rapidly growing market. By optimizstrictions for customers and higher costs for carriers. ing synergies between each of its members, SkyTeam Finally, unlike rail transport, aviation funds all of its own strengthens the Group’s product range in terms of its infrastructure costs, both on the ground and in the air, network and the services it offers to its customers, as well as ﬂight security and safety costs. It also pays to such as linked loyalty programme, new ground services soundproof homes in communities living close to airports for passengers and the SkyPriority programme. in France and The Netherlands. In this context, operating routes in regions of the world facing political uncertainty or dealing with unpredictable natural events requires ﬂexibility and an ability to deal with fast-changing environments, in order to offer appropriate solutions and continue providing quality service. To achieve this, the key strengths of the two airlines are indispensable. CSR REPORT 2011 | GOVERNANCE 13 Ensuring SAFETY IN THE AIR AND ON THE GROUND THE ABSOLUTE PRIORITY Safety is unquestionable for Air France-KLM. It is essential for both customers and staff and imperative for the sustainability of air transport. All of Air France and KLM’s operations are subject to numerous checks and certiﬁcations and comply beyond most stringent norms and the highest standards in the air transport industry: at a global level with IATA (International Air Transport Association) whose IOSA safety audit sets the standard for the sector, or at European level with the EASA (European Aviation Safety Agency) regultations. The Group’s ambition is not just to comply with these high standards, but to attain the highest possible level of ﬂight safety. In pursuit of this objective, since the end of 2009 Air France has been reviewing all of its organizational, operational and procedural ﬂight safety processes. This review has resulted in several initiatives, such as those recommended by the Independent Safety Review Team, the new Safety Culture project launched in March 2011 or the internal Trajectoire. In addition, a Flight Safety Committee has been set up within Air France’s Board of Directors. and criminal activity, the Group is continuing to develop “Safety culture KLM is actively involved in several initiatives together with its security procedures, which aim to ensure the protecthe Dutch government to strengthen ﬂight safety around tion of its customers, employees and assets – aircraft, is key for each Schiphol Airport and in areas worldwide with substandard facilities and IT systems. This operation includes various of us, whatever aviation structure. measures such as risk analysis of Air France and KLM’s Through the Safety Management System (SMS) in adbusiness and operation and the systematic inspection his or her role vanced stages of development in all of their businesses and of aircraft, passengers, baggage, cargo and employees. in the company.” subcontractors, the two airlines ensure that safety risks are These procedures, which are subject to strict regulation, continuously identiﬁed, analyzed and managed. To further are carried out with a constant concern for the privacy JEAN-CYRIL SPINETTA strengthen this shared culture, members of staff completed of passengers and employees. Chairman and CEO an e-learning module at the end of 2011. In this area, the Group is working directly with airports, of Air France-KLM Air France’s Board of Directors signed an agreement to government agencies such as intelligence services, the integrate safety at all levels of the airline in May 2011, once Dutch and French civil aviation authorities, the European again proving their commitment to this issue. Additionally, Commission, the airline branch organizations Association the Group continuously adapts and updates its training of European Airlines (AEA), IATA and International Civil programmes in order to ensure the highest levels of comAviation Organization (ICAO). petence among its staff. Crisis prevention and management In order to guarantee the highest level of protection for plans are in effect at all of the Group’s destinations and their customers and employees in more than 100 counsimulation exercises are carried out several times per year. tries and 200 cities throughout the world, Air France and KLM’s Security Departments are permanently moniONGOING VIGILANCE toring international geopolitical developments. These dedicated teams are responsible for ensuring continuous Airport and airline security have become extremely imﬂight operations and where necessary, for implementing portant in recent years. Faced with the threat of terrorism additional security measures. 14 Guaranteeing EFFECTIVE BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT IDENTIFYING AND MONITORING RISK INDEPENDENT MONITORING Each business AND AUDITING updates its As an airline, Air France-KLM is exposed to general risks related to its business. To guarantee that these risks are In addition to its measures, Air France-KLM performs inmajor risks taken into account as effectively as possible, the Group has set up a risk identiﬁcation and management process. ternal monitoring and audit departments. The monitoring of these measures is based on the COSO (Committee of every quarter Strategic and operational risk maps have been drawn up Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission) by stating the under the leadership of the internal audit and control deInternal Control Framework, whose purpose is to draw up probability of partment for all businesses concerned.The risk maps are framework guidelines to ensure the execution and efﬁciency updated on a regular basis. Examples are risks speciﬁcally of operations, the accuracy of accounting and ﬁnancial data these risks linked to air transport, such as the cyclical and seasonal and compliance with laws and regulations. occurring and nature of the business, operational risks, the risks of terIndependent internal audits aim to improve the Group’s procrorist attacks, geopolitical or sanitary risks, regulatory risks, esses and help to achieve ﬁxed objectives at Group level the potential increases in fuel prices, rules related to the treatment of or objectives set for particular processes in each business. financial impact passengers, environmental and social risks or risks to IT ( For further information, see Air France-KLM Registrasystems. Additionally, other non-ﬁnancial risks more dition Document 2011) involved. rectly linked to the Group’s activity, such as the impact of competition, geopolitical driven risks, negociating collective agreements and industrial disputes are also mapped. Each business updates its major risks every quarter by stating the probability of these risks occurring and the potential ﬁnancial impact involved. The internal audit and control department presents a quarterly report on the most important risks to the Group Executive Committee and to the Audit Committee. As part of the Group’s Strategic Framework, the strategic risks are mapped yearly. The Group Executive Committee assesses these strategic risks and draws up action plans. COMPLIANT WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS The Group complies with operational safety and efﬁciency principles, it meets regulatory requirements governing air transport, covering ﬂights, ground operations, aircraft maintenance, and airport police. Progress made in these areas has resulted in certiﬁcation from independent organizations, such as IOSA, ISO 9001 or QualiAF, for the effectiveness of management systems and ISO 14001 for the validation of environmental management systems. CSR REPORT 2011 | GOVERNANCE 15 Applying CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS candidates aimed at reinforcing the presence of women 1. Alexandre de Juniac, Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Air France, was co-opted within the Board. as a Board director following a decision taken Air France-KLM is a limited company with a Board of The Board of Directors determines the orientation of the by the Board of Directors on January 11, 2012. This appointment will be submitted to Directors and is organized under French law. The Board company’s activities and ensures implementation. The the General Shareholders’ Meeting of May 31, of Directors comprises 15 members1, 4 of whom are Board relies upon the recommendations of its specialized 2012 for ratiﬁcation. Dutch. There are 3 female members, 20% of total committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration 2. Nine-month ﬁnancial year following the change in the opening and closing dates for Board members, in line with the AFEP-MEDEF recomCommittee and the Appointments Committee. the ﬁnancial year decided by the General mendation of April 19, 2010 and the provisions of the The Board operates according to accepted French corShareholders’ Meeting of July 7, 2011. 3. During its meeting of March 7, 2012, the law of January 27, 2011 relating to the equal representaporate governance principles, as set out in the AFEPBoard of Directors decided to replace Leo van tion of women and men within Boards of Directors. In MEDEF Corporate Governance Code updated in 2010. Wijk, an executive director since October 17, 2011, with Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. view of the Board director mandates expiring in 2013 In application of these principles, the Board of Directors and 2014, the Appointments Committee will propose regularly discusses and updates its mode of governance. For further information, see the Registration Document 2011 at www.airfranceklm-ﬁnance.com BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SPECIALIZED COMMITTEES STATUS 20112 15 directors of which: 12 directors appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (of which 2 representatives of the employee shareholders) representatives of the French State appointed by ministerial decree Reuniﬁcation of the functions of chairman and chief executive ofﬁcer since October 17, 2011. DIRECTORS’ TERM OF OFFICE 4 years (exceptionally 2 or 3 years to ensure the smooth renewal of the Board of Directors). NUMBER OF MEETINGS AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE RATE 7 meetings; attendance rate: 87.6% Newly appointed directors may carry out site visits, meet with key managers from within the company and undertake training organized by the company. TRAINING OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEMBERS They receive a complete dossier containing all the information required to fulﬁl their mandate. BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEES Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Appointments Committee 3 NUMBER OF MEMBERS 6 (of whom 3 independent) 3 (all independent) 4 (all independent) NUMBER OF MEETINGS AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE RATE 2 meetings, 91.7% 3 meetings, 100% 8 meetings, 100% Yes (each member of the Board of Directors conducted a self-evaluation in ANNUAL EVALUATION OF THE FUNCTIONING OF THE BOARD OF questionnaire format, the anonymously reported ﬁndings were presented during one DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEES of the Board Meetings). Yes. The internal regulations are regularly updated. They were, in EXISTENCE OF BOARD’S INTERNAL REGULATION, A CODE OF particular, modiﬁed by the Board of Directors meeting of November 9, 2011. STOCK MARKET COMPLIANCE AND A CODE OF FINANCIAL ETHICS Documents available: www.airfranceklm-ﬁnance.com Publication of compensation modalities and amounts paid to executive directors in the Registration Document, the Management Report and on the Group website. COMPENSATION OF THE COMPANY OFFICERS Executive directors receive neither stock options nor bonus shares. Should they leave the company they do not receive any special indemnities. 16 BREAKDOWN OF SHARE CAPITAL (December 31, 2011) Changes of the Group's governance 15.8% Following the resignation of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Pierre-Henri Gourgeon, as proposed by the Appointments Committee, the Board of Directors meeting of October FRENCH STATE 72.6% 17, 2011 decided to reunite the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Air France-KLM. The Chairman and Chief Executive Of1.9% TREASURY SHARES OTHER ﬁcer is appointed by the Board of Directors. Since that date, Jean-Cyril Spinetta has fulﬁlled the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. The Board of Directors meeting of October 17, 2011 also appointed Leo 9.7% EMPLOYEES van Wijk as Deputy Chief Executive Ofﬁcer with all the powers recognized by the law. Independence of the Directors After having examined the situation of each Board director, CHANGES IN EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP in its meeting of the March 7, 2012, the Board of DirecMARCH 2008 MARCH 2009 MARCH 2010 MARCH 2011 DECEMBER 2011 tors deemed 6 of its members to be independent, in view 11.2% 12% 11.8% 9.8% 9.7% of the Group’s ownership structure (notably the French State and employees) and the speciﬁc rules governing the appointment of a number of its Board directors. The Board considers that all Directors hold the required skills SHAREHOLDERS’ GENERAL MEETING, JULY 7, 2011 and have professional experience of use to the company, ONE SHARE EQUALS ONE VOTE Yes whether or not they are considered independent according to the rules set out by the AFEP-MEDEF. NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS PRESENT, REPRESENTED, 14,517 shareholders GRANTING POWER OF ATTORNEY TO THE CHAIRMAN representing Evaluation of the functioning OR VOTING BY MAIL 146,317,632 shares of the Board of Directors ATTENDANCE RATE 49.43% The members of the Board of Directors conducted a selfevaluation exercise on the functioning of the Board in respect of the 2011 ﬁnancial year. The results of the evaluation carried out via a questionnaire sent to each Board A high rate 120 stock index, with almost 10% of Group equity owned director were handled under the seal of anonymity and by over half of current or former employees, collectively were subject of a presentation and discussion during the of employee representing the Group’s second-largest shareholder. Board of Directors meeting of March 7, 2012. Generally shareholders, Two employee shareholder representatives sit on the speaking, the self-evaluation highlighted a positive evoluwith almost 10% Board of Directors. These are appointed by employee tion in the Board’s functioning since the last evaluation of Group equity shareholders themselves and contribute to the work of carried out by an independent ﬁrm in 2010 and the selfthe Audit Committee. evaluation carried out in 2011. A change in the Board’s owned by over composition was considered desirable involving, in parhalf of current or Financial communication ticular, a strengthening of international experience and former employees, Air France-KLM pursues regular dialogue with its sharethe recruitment of directors with more industrial proﬁles. holders, institutional investors and SRIs. The Group comcollectively municates and meets with its individual and institutional EUROPEAN SHAREHOLDERS representing shareholders through various means and events: press the Group’s conferences and press releases, a quarterly newsletter Pursuant to the obligation for air transport companies to sent out to the 7,000 members of the Shareholders’ Club second-largest monitor and control their shareholders, Air France-KLM and a dedicated website. The Group regularly takes part has implemented a procedure for their identiﬁcation. shareholder. in brieﬁngs for individual shareholders all over France. As of the December 31, 2011, Air France-KLM was In 2000, the Group set up the Consultative Committee 69.8% owned by French interests (compared with 65.2% for Individual Shareholders, which is composed of 12 as of the March 31, 2011) and more than 75% by Eumembers and is a forum to consider the way in which ropean institutions. Air France-KLM communicates ﬁnancial information to individual shareholders. A high rate of employee shareholders Air France-KLM has one of the highest proportions of employee share ownership of the companies in the SBF CSR REPORT 2011 | GOVERNANCE 17 Monitoring ADHERENCE TO ETHICAL PRINCIPLES OUR BUSINESS CONDUCT RULES COMPLIANCE WITH COMPETITION LAW As a framework for its operations, Air France-KLM has Since 2007, Air France-KLM has established its own several conduct rules concerning the way it runs its busispeciﬁc compliance policy related to competition law ness. Some of these rules apply to all members of staff, with the publication of its Competition Law Compliance while others are speciﬁc – for example, the Air FranceManual. The Manual is published in three languages, KLM procurement and Air France HR departments each was last updated at the end of 2010 and is available apply a separate code of ethics. to all employees. In addition to this publication, several The Board of Directors has adopted a Compliance other means of prevention have been developed and Charter and Financial Code of Ethics. The Compliance made available to the Group’s employees, for example Charter imposes rules on trading shares upon company a telephone hotline dedicated to competition law. ofﬁcers, senior executives and some employees of the In 2008 the ﬁrst e-learning module was launched, which company in sensitive posts, while the Financial Code of was followed by a second module in 2010. The compleEthics deﬁnes rules concerning ﬁnancial information, with tion of this yearly training is compulsory for all Air France which they must comply. and KLM executives holding posts that require knowlIn 2009, KLM drew up a Code of Conduct that sets out edge of the relevant regulations. At the end of the online the main principles concerning ﬁnancial and business training and ﬁnal assessment, employees sign a declaraintegrity, conﬁdentiality, compliance and commitment tion in which they commit to comply with competition to CSR. The Code serves as an umbrella for the several rules relevant to their work. policies on these subjects within KLM. WHISTLE BLOWING PROCEDURE To enable members of staff to signal serious matters which they may be aware of, such as accountancy and ﬁnancial fraud or corruption, both Air France and KLM have set up a whistle blowing procedure on these topics. This procedure is accessible to all, discretionary and anonymous, should the employee prefer, and with no risk of sanction to the whistle blower. Air France-KLM Competition Law Compliance Manual published in 3 languages 18 Stating OUR POSITIONS INCLUSION OF AIRLINES IN THE EUROPEAN UNION grown biomass for liquid biofuels is scarce, Air France-KLM is calling for EMISSIONS TRADING SCHEME (EU-ETS) comprehensive legislation that focuses on these scarce resources in those sectors that do not currently have an alternative to liquid fuels like the aviaSince the 1st of January 2012, all ﬂights to and from airports in the European tion and maritime industry and long-haul trucking. Union have been subject to EU-ETS. After the energy sector, air transport is the largest industry to be included in the European Emissions Trading EUROPEAN TRANSPORT POLICY: THE EU FUTURE Scheme. The EU-ETS will cost Air France-KLM between 50 and 100 million OF TRANSPORT 2050 WHITE PAPER euros in 2012. Air France-KLM has always supported the implementation of a Cap and Trade mechanism that beneﬁts environment far more than a Air transport will remain an essential driver of economic and human developstraightforward tax. Air France-KLM supports this but needs certainty and ment for industrialized and emerging countries alike. The European Commistransparency that the system is implemented with the participation of non-EU sion’s White Paper has addressed the decarbonization of the airline sector, and countries given the risk of retaliation by some non-EU states. The EU-ETS the adaptation of the infrastructure required to meet the mobility needs of EU mechanism is an example of Cap and Trade which potentially can be used citizens. Air France-KLM is contributing to the Commission’s work on reducing as a global system endorsed under ICAO principles. Revenues collected by transport-generated hindrances. Although air and rail transport can complement governments as a result of auctioning emission rights should be earmarked one another in order to provide passengers with a wider choice of transport for sustainable innovation in the aviation industry, e.g by modernizing air trafﬁc options, the Group stresses that it is necessary to guarantee a level playing ﬁeld management or developing sustainable alternative fuels. A global approach for different modes of transport and between operators using the same transport for aviation emission reduction through ICAO with an equal level playing ﬁeld modes, and to take the international dimension of air transport into account. is key for a global industry. CONSUMER RIGHTS SINGLE EUROPEAN SKY Customer care is central to the Group’s business. Air France-KLM contribThe adoption in 2009 of laws paving the way for implementation of the Single utes to the European Commission’s work on Consumer Rights and carefully European Sky have led to the creation of Functional Airspace Blocks (FABs) monitors the harmonious application of rules to all airlines operating in the The Group hopes that EU Member States will live up to their commitments European Union. in order to achieve effective FABs. An efﬁcient air trafﬁc control system is essential for guaranteeing capacity (reducing delays), efﬁciency (for cutting AIRPORT INFRASTRUCTURE costs, reducing fuel consumption and hence CO2 emissions) while ensuring safety. Air France-KLM continues to be involved in the partnership proposed Air France-KLM has taken note of the European Commission’s initiative to by the European Commission to evaluate and implement the new operational resolve ground congestion problems at airports, in order to reduce delays concepts necessary (SESAR). Particular attention must be paid to ensure and improve service quality. Several regulation projects have been proposed that work carried out on both sides of the Atlantic on this issue is consistent by the Commission on themes such as allocating time slots, assistance at (SESAR and Nextgen). stations and noise. Regarding the issue of slots, the Group – like all airlines – believes that any revision of the current system should preserve the main ALTERNATIVE FUELS principles laid down under the auspices of IATA, giving rise to a slot allocation system which is consistent and compatible worldwide. The Group also Sustainable alternative fuels represent the most promising way to signiﬁhopes that the texts which are voted by the European institutions and which cantly reducing air transport’s carbon footprint. The Group is supporting are part of the “airport package”, are balanced and in particular maintain the research ﬁnancially and is actively participating in efforts to produce and competitiveness of the European industry. commercialize biofuels that are acceptable in environmental, social and economic terms. The Group welcomes the European Commission’s Biofuel GRAND ROISSY Flightpath initiative, which is being led in partnership with Airbus, Air France, KLM, other European airlines and European biofuel producers, all of whom Air France supports government initiatives to promote balanced growth at have committed to promoting sustainable aviation biofuel production, with Roissy-CDG. Environmental measures announced encourage the sustainthe view to creating a European industry. Since the amount of sustainably able development of the airport. CSR REPORT 2011 | GOVERNANCE 19 Applying OUR CSR APPROACH By mobilizing all Air France-KLM's commitment to CSR is based on and respect in the workplace and promotes human rights working in line with fundamental rights, as contained in the places where the Group operates. of the Group's in international principles: The Universal Declaration of Air France-KLM has several speciﬁc charters which supresources and Human Rights, The International Labour Organization’s plement these commitments: the Air France-KLM Sus(ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights tainability Charter for Suppliers, KLM’s Code of Conduct, employees, at Work, The Organization for Economic Cooperation and the Anti-harassment Charter and Block Release and through and Development’s (OECD) guiding principles. Training Charter at Air France. a pragmatic OUR CSR COMMITMENTS NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL approach, we set COMMITMENTS The Group’s ambition is to set the standard in CSR and the standard in to remain leader in the airline industry. Air France-KLM’s The Group’s CSR approach is underlined by its signature terms of CSR and commitment to environmental protection, social equity of public commitments at both international and naand local development are laid out in its Corporate Sotional levels. As a signatory of the United Nations Global strive to remain a cial Responsibility Statement. The CSR statement was Compact, the Group is committed to respecting and frontrunner in the strengthened in 2007 with the adoption of the Climate promoting its ten principles in the areas of human rights, Action Plan and in 2008 with the signature of the Social labour standards, the environment and the ﬁght against airline industry. Rights and Ethics Charter, which applies to the employcorruption ( see the list of Global Compact principles on ees of the two airlines and to the subsidiaries based in page 78). Air France is also a signatory of the Caring for Europe. In line with its commitment to the Global ComClimate initiative led by the Global Compact and United pact, Air France-KLM fosters a climate of mutual trust Nations Environment Programme. The Group supports national commitments to promote CSR. Air France is a signatory of the Diversity Charter, the Charter for Corporate Commitment to Equal Opportunities in the State Educational System, and the Good Parenting Charter. KLM signed the Sustainable Supply and Corporate Responsibility Manifesto, which aims to support the market for sustainable products and services. INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY IN BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS The Group’s strategy aims to make sustainability an integral part of its business and operations, by integrating CSR within all divisions and at all levels. To achieve this, commitment is supported at Executive level and also through initiatives implemented by Air France and KLM employees. At Air France, CSR is driven by an Executive Vice President who is a member of the Board of Directors, while at KLM an Executive Board Member carries out this role. The two airlines regularly dedicate Board Meetings to CSR issues. KLM’s CSR Council meets quarterly, bringing together executives and managers to give advice on CSR policy to the Board of Directors and Executive 20 CSR GOVERNANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION BOAR BOARDD OF DIR IREC TORS ECTORS AIR FRA RANC NCE E-KL KLM M AT GROUP LEVEL GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (GEC) INTERNAL AUDIT AIR AIR FR FRAN ANCE CE BOARD OF DI OARD DIRE RECT CTOR ORS S, KLM BOA OARD MANA RD OF MANAGING DIR GING IREC ECTO TORS UPER RS AND SUPERVI VISO SORY RY BOA OARD RD AT AIRLINE LEVEL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES AIR FRANCE AND KLM CSR DEPARTMENT HR DEPARTMENT BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Committee. At Air France, two Board meetings per year are dedicated to reviewing QSE (Quality Safety, Environare based on the ISO 14001 standard. Air France and KLM are certiﬁed for all of their relevant activities, both As a signatory ment) and approving objectives. at their facilities in France and The Netherlands and onof the United The Air France and KLM CSR departments are responboard their aircraft. Following a comprehensive audit Nations Global sible for policy and deployment in each organization. in June 2011, Air France’s environmental certiﬁcation has been renewed for a further three years. In 2008, Compact, OBJECTIVES AND MANAGEMENT Air France Industries was awarded Single and Global the Group is INDICATORS Certiﬁcation covering 9 standards, with an extended ISO 26000 standard on CSR in 2011. Regarding food safety committed to Air France-KLM works on four key issues: environment, Air France has been certiﬁed ISO 22000 since 2006. promoting its customers, employees and contribution to local develAt KLM, The Board of Managing Directors and executive opment. Together with partners in the supply chain and management have various CSR performance indicators 10 principles. other stakeholders, the Group focuses on: linked to their variable remuneration covering environReaching a sustainable balance between aviation mental and social elements. growth and its total environmental footprint; Since 2006, the Group set up a common reporting sysDifferentiating itself by offering a personalized and proactem, in order to consolidate its social and environmental tive customer approach, whilst making sustainability indicators. This system is audited and checked annually integral to Air France and KLM products and services; by one of its two statutory auditors, in-line with the ISEA Creating a safe and motivating working environment to 3000 standard (International Standard on Assurance facilitate every employee taking responsibility; Engagement). Adding economic and social value at the hubs and The Air France-KLM CSR report follows the GRI (Global destinations where the Group operates. Reporting Initiative) guidelines. ( For further information, Both airlines have set speciﬁc objectives in the area of see page 78) the Group’s key issues. Part of these objectives is also integrated into management target setting throughout the organization. The systematic introduction of environmental management objectives and plans for continuous improvement CSR REPORT 2011 | GOVERNANCE 21 Engaging ON CSR THROUGH DIALOGUE In 2011, STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE INVOLVING OUR SUBSIDIARIES dialogue with Listening and sharing play a major part in Air FranceThe Group’s subsidiaries are involved in CSR policy. stakeholders KLM’s commitment, both in order to identify and to imIn 2008, all of the Group’s European subsidiaries had plement CSR issues. The Group pays a great deal of already signed the Social Rights and Ethics Charter; has contributed attention to the expectations of its customers, employwhich constituted an important step in setting out a to providing ees, suppliers, local communities, associations, local aucommon strategy. The majority of subsidiaries are inthorities, and civil society representatives such as NGOs. cluded in the Group’s social and environmental reporting. insights into The Group assesses employee perceptions by carry( For further information, see pages 70, 72-76) the Group's ing out surveys and organizing forums several times To play their part in fulﬁlling the Group’s ambitions, subper year. Externally, Air France and KLM have set up sidiaries are involved in several CSR initiatives. Transavia environmental several forms of dialogue, such as the materiality test, France has launched several projects concerning ﬂights, policy, including customer surveys, events, comments from stakeholder ground and in-ﬂight service. The entire airline is involved groups, shareholders and SRI investors and by taking in implementing measures related to environmental probiofuel. into account recommendations from non-ﬁnancial rating tection, the reduction of CO2 emissions, offering organic agencies. This ongoing dialogue enables the Group to or fair trade products and promoting the culture of the receive the necessary feedback to know whether it is on destinations served. the right track and to further shape its policy. KLM Cityhopper, transavia.com, Martinair and KLM CaIn 2011, dialogue with stakeholders has contributed to tering Services are carrying out initiatives to save weight, shaping Air France-KLM joint biofuel policy and to proincrease fuel efﬁciency and participate in waste projects viding insights into its waste and energy footprints. In together with KLM. 2012, the Group plans to further investigate opportuniServair, Air France’s catering subsidiary, sets its own straties regarding sustainability in its supply chain. tegic CSR priorities in order to guarantee healthy and safe Feedback from stakeholders has also inﬂuenced the products for its customers, to promote diversity and equal Group’s reporting. Elements such as risk management opportunities, to reduce its environmental impact and to and the way CSR is integrated into overall strategy were promote local development. Over the past few years, Sertaken into account in this year’s report. ( For further vair has set ambitious objectives for reducing waste, along information, see page 68) with reducing its water and energy consumption. In 2011, Servair’s environmental initiatives were recognized when the Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME) and Aéroports de Paris awarded it the “Ecogestes Label”. CSR IN SKYTEAM ALLIANCE Air France and KLM share a strong commitment to CSR with other members of the alliance. In 2008, SkyTeam was the ﬁrst alliance to sign a CSR Charter. The Statement is structured around three key pillars: protecting the environment, promoting social responsibility and contributing to equitable economic prosperity. Member airlines participate in a CSR working group and share best practices at the annual SkyTeam CSR expert meeting. 22 In 2011, two of the four airlines listed on the non-ﬁnanleader in the aviation sector by the two DJSI indexes, cial Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes were members of DJSI World and DJSI Europe. In 2011, Air France-KLM Air France-KLM SkyTeam: the Air France-KLM Group and Delta Air Lines. was also named leader in the Travel and Leisure superTravel and sector. This recognition places the Group in the world's MOBILIZING THE AIRLINE SECTOR 19 most sustainable companies listed on the DJSI. Leisure Thanks to this performance, in 2011 the Group retained supersector Air France-KLM is a member of major international bodies (IATA), European bodies (AEA), regional bodies (ERA – its listing on the ASPI Eurozone, Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe, FTSE4Good Index Series leader on the European Regions Airlines Association) and national bodand ECPI Ethical EMU Equity indexes. Air France-KLM is DJSI. ies (FNAM Fédération Nationale de l’Aviation Marchande included in the CDLI 2011 (Carbon Disclosure Leaderand BAR – Board of Airline Representatives). These orship Index), which ranks the best 20 French companies ganizations collectively represent the air transport sector on the SBF 250 (the largest 250 companies by market and advocate its public positions. This distinction places capitalization in France). the Group in the world's 19 most responsible companies. The appointment of Peter Hartman, President and CEO of KLM, as head of IATA in June 2011 enables the Group to be even more effective and active in mobilizing the entire sector. IATA is working directly with the ICAO to reduce air INTERNATIONAL NON-FINANCIAL INDEXES transport’s impact on the environment, and more recently AND RATING 2011 on climate regulation. This joint effort was formalized in the passing of October 2010’s ICAO resolution that included a target to limit the sector’s CO2 emissions, a ﬁrst step towards an international industry-wide agreement. Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Chairman and CEO of Air FranceKLM is a member of the European Commission’s “Aviation Platform”, which puts forward ways of promoting a sustainable future for European air transport. CSR ACHIEVEMENTS RECOGNIZED Air France-KLM is assessed annually by the major international non-ﬁnancial rating agencies, including SAM, Vigeo, Eiris and Oekom. For the seventh year running, the Group has been ranked CSR REPORT 2011 | GOVERNANCE 23 Involving tant driver for CSR, see page 71). For example, Engineering & Maintenance completed a project for renewal of brakes on the Boeing 737 KLM ﬂeet and for aircraft of transavia.com. By moving from steel to carbon brakes, the weight of the brakes is strongly reduced (-350 kg per aircraft) resulting in a reduction of fuel consumption. ALL PARTS OF integrating sustainability where possible from the stage of product development until the end of product life, applying eco-design principles for our products and materials. THE SUPPLY CHAIN For example, the recycling of meal boxes has been set up by the Inﬂight Services department, and Cargo business developed with one of its key suppliers a new light-weight pallet which will drastically reduce overall weight of cargo equipment onboard. Engineering & Maintenance division has reviewed the cleaning of aircraft to use different materiINTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN As a service company Air France-KLM relies for a great 4,200 contracted suppliers als in order to reduce water and detergent consumption, and has implemented a carpet recycling process together with the carpet manufacturer. part on the procurement of its products and services, acworldwide Integrating sustainability in various supply chains is in counting for around 15.5 billion euros in 2011, including fuel some areas more challenging than others due to for ex(up to 60% of our total expenses) carried out with 4,200 ample the product type, such as fuel, or a limited number contracted suppliers. The Group's main purchase streams of suppliers, such as aircraft or component manufacturare ﬂeet, fuel, airport & navigation fees and engineering & ers. Although we are not always in the driver seat of maintenance. Given this large share of external spend in total realizing certain sustainability developments we aim to revenues of the Group, optimizing, innovating and making contribute and challenge whenever possible. our supply chain more sustainable are essential to contribute A good example concerns the sustainability of our fuel to the proﬁtability of the Group. where we set up a joint venture, SkyNRG, and are foundThe Group’s Procurement focuses on: ing member of the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group using a uniform method for measuring procurement per(SAFUG) to promote the development of sustainable formance in which total cost of ownership is evaluated (inaviation fuels ( For further information, see the Environcorporating weight savings and fuel consumption as imporment chapter). INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY IN PURCHASING PROCESSES STAGE TOOLS CSR questionnaire Potential suppliers are asked to complete a questionnaire in the tendering process. This questionnaire covers all BEFORE TENDER relevant supplier information including CSR aspects such as, health and safety, environmental management, social policies, and supply chain criteria. Sustainability charter Each supplier is requested to upload a signed version of the Air France-KLM sustainability or a statement of their own, which is checked and approved by Air France-KLM if complying with our own charter. TENDER Products speciﬁcations Environmental criteria for products are increasingly an integral part of tender assessment, since it is part of total cost of ownership valuation and life cycle assessment. Evaluation Suppliers are subject to quality and safety audits conducted by business units. Dedicated CSR pilot audits CONTRACT started in 2011to assess CSR compliance of suppliers, based on risk proﬁle and set of norms. ISO 14001 internal audits are focused on environmental management. 24 A recycling programme has been set up for aircraft carpet in cooperation with the carpet supplier. ACT AS A LOCAL the promotion of CSR principles to their suppliers, either DEVELOPMENT PARTNER by asking them to sign up to a Sustainability Charter or CSR pilot audits provide their own but equivalent CSR statement. Current were initiated in Two thirds of sub-contractor jobs are based in CSR scores are presently between 65-70% which we intend Europe as a result of the Group’s purchasing scope. The to further increase in 2012. 2011 to assess Group also contributes to the development of suppliers in In the generic questionnaire used in tendering & conthe level of speciﬁc regions and sectors and our destinations through tracting procedures, our suppliers are asked to provide cooperation with local suppliers. For example, the Group information on several other aspects linked to their suscompliance of now has a leading position as company using suppliers tainability policy, including environmental licenses, locasuppliers with in the sheltered sector (spending up to 13 million euros tion of production sites and compliance with EU REACH on an annual basis) and contributes to the development regulations on chemicals in particular. respect to the of French regions (more than 700 million euros of active Another important element of managing CSR in the portfolio supplier charter. contracts in 2011). of suppliers is the execution of supplier audits. CSR pilot audits were initiated in 2011, in which, based on an internally COMMITMENT OF OUR BUYERS The Group actively promotes social responsibility and environmental performance among buyers and internal business developed set of norms for these audits (in line with the principles of the UN Global Compact), external agencies assess the level of compliance of suppliers with respect to the Sustainability Charter. The audits concentrated on €13 m spending in sheltered stakeholders in charge of formulating product speciﬁcations. suppliers in “high risk countries” which were identiﬁed by sector Buyers need to sign a Code of Ethics to ensure ethical looking at indices for environmental performance index, behavior in their dealings with suppliers. This document is corruption perception and human rights. In one of these published on the supplier website, together with the UN audits it was eventually decided to change a 2nd tier supplier Global Compact and the supplier charter. Buyers are also based on the outcome of the audit. Further reﬁnement of encouraged to participate in training and seminar sessions audit scope and content is one of the objectives for 2012, to further improve CSR awareness in the organization. Also, as well as to re-audit suppliers where a corrective action all procurement domains (and employees) have clear CSR plan has been formulated. targets in their individual target setting. DIALOGUE WITH OUR SUPPLIERS INVOLVING SUPPLIERS IN CSR The Group engages its suppliers in sustainability discussions Air France-KLM uses a supplier management system to through regular dialogue and special events and sessions. ensure commitment by suppliers to the CSR principles as Furthermore there is a dedicated website where it commudeﬁned in the United Nations Global Compact. The Group nicates about among others the Group’s procurement stratassesses the CSR commitment of its suppliers, including egy and CSR commitment (www.af-klm.com/procurement). CSR REPORT 2011 | GOVERNANCE 25 26 Environment CSR REPORT 2011 27 Context Ambition As a major player in global air transport, Air France-KLM is aware of its We aim for a sustainable responsibilities regarding the environmental impact of its businesses, in balance between aviation terms of use of resources, emissions and noise hindrance. growth and our total Aviation accounts for 2-3% of global man-made CO2 emissions, but continuous environmental footprint, growth in air transport means this ﬁgure is rising. Air France-KLM is mobilizing the inby playing our part in the dustry in the ﬁght against climate change in line with ICAO commitments and is playworldwide effort, mobilizing ing its part in the collective effort to reduce CO2 emissions produced by air transport. our industry and reducing Forward looking, the Group is involved in developing sustainable alternative fuels, our own impact. continues to modernize its ﬂeet and to implement practical measures for reducing fuel consumption while supporting aviation research. Air France-KLM is further committed to implementing innovative environmental measures to reduce noise, improve air quality, manage energy and water consumption and reduce waste. In pursuit of these goals, the Group encourages the commitment and initiatives of its employees and cooperates together with its suppliers. 28 Minimizing our environmental footprint Commitments In its Corporate Social Responsibility statement, The Group expects its entire staff to work on ambitious Air France-KLM has committed to complying with environmental action plans, from saving fuel in ﬂight opregulations and to investing in levels of environmental erations to cutting emissions on the ground and applying impact mitigation that go beyond statutory noise, air eco-design. quality and climate change requirements. The Group’s major environmental impact is caused by the Air France-KLM is actively stimulating the implementation emissions of its ﬂight operations. This is why Air France-KLM of sustainable aviation biofuels and is involved in research has adopted a strategy to mitigate climate change, known as programmes for renewable energy. the “Climate Action Plan”. The Group supports environmental protection programmes Air France-KLM is supporting efforts to reach a new led by NGOs. worldwide climate agreement post 2012, and has joined schemes to mobilize the aviation sector for a fair contribuAir France-KLM provides its customers with information on tion to global targets. their travel-related CO2 emissions via a calculator based on real operating data and opportunities to offset these. Air France-KLM is continuing to modernize its ﬂeet, contribute to aviation research and encourage the entire supply chain to reduce CO2 emissions. CSR REPORT 2011 | ENVIRONMENT 29 Minimizing our environmental footprint Objectives Main achievements 2011 3.7 LITRES/PASSENGER/100KM 3.81 LITRES/PASSENGER/100KM 2012 (92 g CO2/passenger/km) Despite the global ﬁnancial crisis, between 2008 and 2011, Air France’s speciﬁc consumption has been reduced by 3.8% EXPAND ACTIVITY WHILE KEEPING NOISE -29% NOISE compared with 2005 EMISSIONS BELOW 2005 LEVELS (10 major French airports) CONTRIBUTE TO THE REDUCTION CAR USE: -3% compared with 2007 OF POLLUTING EMISSIONS CAUSED (to be re-evaluated in September 2012) BY COMMUTING in the Paris region with a 10% shift in transport modes INTER-BUSINESS TRAVEL PLAN (PDIE) SET UP at CDG airport, work beginning at Orly IMPROVE THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY 8% REDUCTION IN BUILDINGS ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2014 OF BUILDINGS through renewal of facilities management contracts ANNUAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY NO DETERIORATION IN EFFICIENCY IN 2011, 2020 IMPROVEMENTS of 1.5% per year COMPARED TO 2010 despite the crisis FUEL PLAN: 265,000 TONS FUEL SAVED SINCE 2008 -300,000 tonnes of fuel saving by 2012 252,000 tons of CO2 emissions avoided in 2011, -500,000 tonnes of fuel saving by 2020 compared to 2008, thanks to fuel savings compared to 2008 60% OF RAMP EQUIPMENT FLEET TO BE 45% OF RAMP FLEET ELECTRICALLY POWERED ELECTRICALLY POWERED in 2011 Objectives Main achievements 2011 Aim for 1% SUSTAINABLE BIOFUELS Start of series of 200 ﬂights Amsterdam-Paris 2015 partly on USED COOKING OIL 20% CO2 REDUCTION PER TON/KILOMETRE ONGOING FUEL EFFICIENCY MEASURES 2020 (base is 2009) 2009 = 91.6 g CO2 /ton/ kilometer 2011 = 89.3 g CO2 / ton/ kilometer ON AVERAGE 2% IMPROVEMENT IN ENERGY ENERGY REDUCTION NOT ACHIEVED (-0.1%) EFFICIENCY per year (building related) ∞ MINIMIZING RESOURCES USED, REDUCE NON-RECYCLABLE WASTE, investigate techniques IN-DEPTH VALUE STREAM MAPPING OF ONBOARD WASTE STREAMS to determine possibilities for improvement for internal waste processing and reduction (Inﬂight, Ground services and KLM Catering services) STRIVE TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE GROUND SERVICE MULTIPLE TESTING PERIODS WITH DIFFERENT EQUIPMENT ELECTRIFIED where possible and power SUSTAINABLE VEHICLES are carried out to determine the remainder equipment with sustainable biofuels. operations and user-friendliness ( see page 40) REDUCE NOISE AT SCHIPHOL Continuation of the study on IMPLEMENTATION together with the aviation sector OF THE FIXED RADIUS TURNS. Research to implement ﬁxed arrival routes and CDA operations in late evening. 30 Working TOGETHER TO MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE WORKING TOWARDS GLOBAL REGULATION SHARE OF TRANSPORT IN GLOBAL At the Durban conference in November 2011, the International Civil Aviation MAN-MADE CO2 EMISSIONS Organization (ICAO) committed to producing a proposal to regulate global (source: GIEC1, Stern Review2) aviation emissions by the end of 2012. ~2% This commitment follows the resolution adopted by 174 ICAO member AIR countries in 2010 that aims to reduce the sector’s emissions. This agreeTRANSPORT ment, which was a global ﬁrst, includes an objective to improve the energy MARINE TRANSPORT efﬁciency of international aviation by 2% annually until 2020. It also includes an ambition to stabilise net emissions from 2020 and set out a regulatory LAND 3-4% TRANSPORT framework for a market-based offsetting scheme. SET OTHER 15-17% INDUSTRIES MEETING NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COMMITMENTS Air France signed the Commitments Agreement for the aviation sector at the Grenelle Environment Summit in January 2008. Between 2008 and 2011, it has reduced fuel consumption by almost 4%, in line with its ﬁxed objective of 3.7 liters/passenger/100km by 2012, the equivalent of 92 g of CO2/passenger/km. KLM has signed two Green Deals with the Dutch government (For further information, see Focus box to the right). Air France-KLM has committed to the agreement reached by the air transport industry prior to the Copenhagen conference; the agreement’s goals are as follows: from now until 2020, to improve energy efﬁciency by 1.5% per year (excluding economic measures); from 2020, to ensure the stabilization and neutral growth of CO2 emissions; by 2050, to achieve a 50% reduction of CO2 emissions compared with 2005 levels. STRIVING FOR EFFECTIVE REGULATION Air France-KLM considers its responsibility to contribute to efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. All airlines operating in, from and to Europe have become subject to the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme (EU-ETS) since the 1st of January 2012. After the energy sector, air transport is the largest industry to be included in the EU-ETS. Air France-KLM is in favor of a Cap and Trade mechanism, that beneﬁts the environment far more than a straightforward tax. Air France-KLM supports this but needs certainty and transparency that the system is implemented with the participation of non-EU countries, given the risk of retaliation by some non-EU states. The EU-ETS mechanism is an 1. IPCC Fourth Assessment Report / Technical Summary (http://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/ example of Cap and Trade which potentially can be used as a global system assessment-report/ar4/wg3/ar4-wg3-ts.pdf p.49), 2007 and GIEC-AIE 2005 endorsed under ICAO principles. 2. Stern Review Chapitre 15 (http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/media/4/5/Chapter_15_ Carbon_Pricing_and_Emissions_Markets_in_Practice.pdf, box 15.6), 2006 CSR REPORT 2011 | ENVIRONMENT 31 Minimizing our environmental footprint Measuring THE IMPACTS OF OUR BUSINESSES Nearly all the Group’s CO 2 emissions come from the operations of its aircraft (99%). Consequently, Air France–KLM meticulously monitors its environmental impact its environmental impact ( see page 73) and has its ﬁgures veriﬁed by statutory auditors. Some of its principal indicators are represented hereunder. OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Growth in CO2 emissions has been signiﬁcantly lower than growth in trafﬁc since 2000. Since 2008, the unfavorable economic climate has had a strong impact on the Group’s trafﬁc. Despite this, a good level of ﬂeet energy efﬁciency has been maintained. CO 2 EMISSIONS AND GROUP-SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION AIR FRANCE-KLM TRAFFIC The Group has achieved a good reduction of its relative CO2 emissions of 14% in 2011, since 2000. In 2011, it achieved 3.7 liters/passenger/100km – 92g CO2/passenger/km 126% TKT CO2 L / PAX / 100 KM GCO2/PAX/KM 130% 4.3 107 3.7 L 120% 4.1 102 110% 92 G 3.9 97 100% 110% 90% 3.7 92 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CO2 EMISSIONS BREAKDOWN PER ACTIVITY FOCUS (Air France-KLM Group, including subsidiaries) Using passenger ﬂights for cargo transport 61 % LONG HAUL Almost 80% of the Group’s emissions are produced by its long-haul PASSENGER ﬂights, for which there is no alternative mode of transport. To ensure LONG HAUL the most efﬁcient use of aircraft baggage holds, Air France-KLM Cargo FREIGHT 18% has implemented a strategy to promote the use of some of the space SHORT & MEDIUM on passenger ﬂights for cargo transport. HAUL GROUND 21% 0.3% 32 NOISE HINDRANCE OF OUR AIR FRANCE-KLM GLOBAL NOISE ENERGY OPERATIONS NOISE ENERGY MOVEMENTS 113% The Group is continuing to expand its operations while at the same time reducing noise levels in areas surrounding 125% airports. Noise is measured annually using the Group’s total noise energy indicator, which takes into account all 100% Air France and KLM ﬂights, using noise levels as certiﬁed by aircraft manufacturers as its baseline. Since 2000, 68% overall noise has declined by 32%, despite a 13% in75% crease in number of ﬂights. This progress is thanks to Air France-KLM’s actions im50% plemented in the framework of the ICAO’s “Balanced Approach” which advocates taking action in three areas simultaneously: ﬂeet renewal, the joint development of 2000 2007 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 noise abatement procedures by airlines and air trafﬁc control, and land use planning and management policies in the areas surrounding airports. In addition to these three measures, under speciﬁc circumstances, operating restrictions may be applied. EMISSIONS OF POLLUTANTS PER SECTOR IN THE PARIS REGION OUR IMPACT ON LOCAL AIR QUALITY (source: AirParif, latest Inventory 2007) Local air quality and its implications for human health 100% NATURE and ecosystems is a growing concern. Aviation has AGRICULTURE an impact on the air quality in areas close to airWASTE TREATMENT 75% ports due to emissions from aircraft engines (NOx, ENERGY PRODUCTION SO2, HC, particulate matter), ground operations on the MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY airport premises and maintenance activities, like paint50% RESIDENTIAL AND ing (VOC). TERTIARY SERVICES RAILWAY AND 25% WATERWAY TRAFFIC The Group publishes its total and low altitude emis7% ROAD TRANSPORT sions of NOx and SO2, HC and VOC on an annual basis. 1% 2% 2% 2% AVIATION ACTIVITY ( see Environmental Indicators page 73) NOx COVNM PM10 PM2,5 SO2 CSR REPORT 2011 | ENVIRONMENT 33 Minimizing our environmental footprint Minimizing 80,000 tonnes of fuel in 2011 (1.6% of Air France’s total consumption). For example in 2011, optimizing taxiing procedures and aircraft ground positions has led to savings of almost 5,000 tonnes of CO2. As part of its partnership with WWF-The Netherlands (WWF-NL), KLM has set a target for 2020 to reduce OUR CARBON CO2 emissions by 20% per transported ton-kilometer compared to 2009 levels. AND NOISE FOOTPRINT SAFELY OPTIMIZING FLYING The Group’s pilots apply as often as possible the most fuel efﬁcient procedures, without compromising on ﬂight safety. These include continuous ascent and descent approach procedures, optimum ﬂight altitude levels and 9.7 MODERN, EFFICIENT AIRCRAFT speed, continuous route optimization based on the latest weather data and taxiing with one or two engines The Group is continuing to modernize its fleet. switched off. Air France has added the latest large passenger jets to KLM was the launching customer and development partyears old its ﬂeet, these aircraft (three 777-300ERs and two A380800s) are more fuel efﬁcient and less noisy. In 2011, ner of Boeing’s Innovative Wind Updates Service, which this year was extended to all ﬂight phases on its entire Average age of the KLM completed the replacement of its 737-300/-400 777 ﬂeet. This programme provides real-time meteoroAir France-KLM fleet aircraft with more efﬁcient 737-Next Generation aircraft. logical information, which enables pilots to adjust their The average age of the Air France-KLM Group aircraft is decisions in order to reduce fuel consumption, cost and 9.7 years old, a relatively young ﬂeet in its category. emissions. KLM expects the system to lead to a 0.1% In 2011, BritAir received delivery of 11 CRJ 1000 “Next reduction en route in fuel consumption. Gen” aircraft to replace its Fokker 100s which will enable Air France, along with air trafﬁc control, has identiﬁed it to reduce its CO2 emissions by around 20%. Régional potential CO2 savings of 4,600 tonnes per year through: has completed the replacement of its Fokker 100 and more than 200 trial ﬂights to the Caribbean, on A380 70s with Embraer 190s and 170s, which consume 10% ﬂights between New York-JFK and Paris-CDG and on and 20% less fuel respectively. the Toulouse shuttle, through the application of AIRE procedures (Atlantic Interoperability Initiative to Reduce REDUCING OUR FUEL CONSUMPTION Emissions) and SESAR (Single European Sky Air Trafﬁc Management). KLM also continued actively its contribuAir France’s Fuel Plan, launched in 2008, seeks to astion in the AIRE and SESAR projects. sess, formulate and promote fuel consumption optimization initiatives. The Fuel Plan brings together over REDUCING WEIGHT ON BOARD 100 fuel-saving measures, which resulted in a saving of Reducing weight is key for saving fuel; the lighter the aircraft, the less fuel it burns and the less CO2 it emits. Cutting one kilo from the weight of an Air France plane means saving 75 tons of CO2 emissions per year. Recent examples include replacing newspaper racks on KLM long-haul aircraft (minus 12 kilos per aircraft) and optimizing the amount of drinking water carried onboard. OUR EMISSIONS CALCULATION AND OFFSETTING OPTIONS Air France and KLM provide their customers with CO2 emissions calculators, available on both of their websites and the option to offset emissions. With these instruments, passengers can ﬂy CO2 neutral. The Group offers sustainable and certiﬁed carbon reduction credits that guarantee high value offsets to secure carbon reductions. Air France’s partnership with GoodPlanet uses this option to ﬁnance the construction of biogas storage reservoirs in China and the conversion of organic waste into compost for agriculture in Madagascar. KLM is sourcing 34 FOCUS Air France ﬂies the world’s most CO2 efﬁcient ﬂight On October 13, 2011, for the ﬁrst time on a commercial ﬂight, Air France AF6129 combined all energy saving measures simultaneously. To reduce fuel consumption, pilots, in coordination with air trafﬁc control, applied all of the most fuel-efﬁcient procedures and trajectories, including the use of electrically powered ramp equipment, taxiing using just one engine, continuous ascent from Toulouse airport, a higher cruising altitude (34,000 feet rather than 24,000 feet) and a continuous descent approach towards Orly Airport. If all shuttle ﬂights to and from Toulouse were able to implement these eco-ﬂight measures, 11,000 tons of CO2 could be saved annually. The ﬂight, which was fully optimized and made as light as possible also used 50% sustainable bio-fuel. ( For further information see page 37) The path optimization can reject 10% less CO2 Air France is part of the Grand Roissy Assembly created than a traditional flight in 2011 to pursue dialogue with all stakeholders in Paris airports. This dialogue will be extended and reinforced in OPTIMIZED FLIGHT PATH provincial airports as part of the roll out of regional bases. TRADITIONAL FLIGHT PATH Residents, Dutch Ministries and professionals from the airline sector represented in the Alders Table, have decided to enter the second experimental year for the new Optimum cruising altitude: 500 kg less CO2 regulative and enforcement system, that should ﬁnd a sustainable balance between growth in the number of 34,000 FEET movements and noise mitigation. Monitoring reports, Continuous descent: information sessions, evaluations and so forth have 300 kg less CO2 come to a better understanding of factors inﬂuencing 28,000 FEET the spreading of noise hindrance across the environment surrounding Schiphol. In 2011, the European Commission worked on reforming its EC 2002-30 directive that provides a framework for noise management around airports. In 2012, this work is set to become directly applicable regulation in TOULOUSE PARIS-ORLY all member states. IMPROVING THE UNDERSTANDING OF OUR IMPACT €34m Gold Standard Voluntary Emission Reductions for its CO2ZERO programme from the wind farm on Bonaire Air France contributes to CORAC (Civil Aviation ReIsland in the Caribbean, which aims to produce enough search Body), which along with the major players in renewable energy to power the entire island. The Group aeronautical research, is drawing up a roadmap for In 2011, Air France will guard the interdependency of carbon reductions from French research between now and 2050. In 2010 EU-ETS and its voluntary programme to avoid double and KLM payed and 2011, two working groups were set up, one dedicounting. 34 million Euros to cated to air quality and one to noise (IROQUA – Resoundproofing homes search Initiative for Optimizing Aeronautic Acoustics). CONTROLLING NOISE HINDRANCE in communities living Air France-KLM is particularly interested in studies on close to airports the psychoacoustic effects of aircraft noise. Air France was the DGAC’s main partner in rolling out in France and The The Group is also contributing to the collection of data commitments made at the Grenelle Environment SumNetherlands. to further understanding of aviation’s impact on the atmit. At CDG airport, continuous descent approach promosphere. For example, water vapour and soot particles cedures (CDA) for eastward inbound ﬂights, and higher given off by engines affect the formation of contrails, altitude levels came into force on the November 17, 2011. but little is known about the impact of these on the cliThese measures were welcomed by the majority of local mate. Air France has been collecting data and carrying residents and come in addition to the total withdrawal instruments onboard its planes since 1994 to assist the of the aircraft with the highest noise level at the end of scientiﬁc community with research in this area. In 2012, 2011. In that same year, implementation of ﬁxed radius the IAGOS (In-service Aircraft for a Global Observing turns at KLM was conﬁrmed and NETT noise hindrance System) instruments will be installed on board of an decreased between Hoofddorp and Nieuw Vennep. Air France aircraft. CSR REPORT 2011 | ENVIRONMENT 35 Minimizing our environmental footprint Developing SUSTAINABLE ALTERNATIVE FUELS Sustainable alternative fuels are one of the most promto support development of a comprehensive and internaising routes to achieving reductions in aviation’s CO2 tionally accepted sustainability certiﬁcation scheme. The emissions. They will be essential in achieving Air FranceRSB standard was ofﬁcially recognized by the European KLM’s ambitions as well as for the aviation industry as a Union in July 2011. whole. Sustainable biofuel development is a priority for The sustainability of alternative aviation fuels depends the Group, whose strategy is to explore the entire value on many factors and has to be assessed on a case-bychain from research to commercialization. Sustainable case basis. KLM currently follows the advice of SkyNRG’s alternative fuels are the only appropriate replacement Sustainability Board which includes WWF-NL. for fossil kerosene for sectors like the airline industry that currently do not have an alternative for liquid fuels. RESEARCH CERTIFICATION Air France-KLM supports several biofuels research initiatives. Air France took part in the SWAFEA study (Sus2011 was an important year for aviation biofuels. The tainable Way for Alternative Fuels and Energy in AviaASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials) certition), launched by the European Commission in 2009. ﬁed a second synthetic kerosene called HEFA (hydroSWAFEA’s recommendations were published in 2011 processed esters and fatty acids) for use on commerand have contributed to the development of a Eurocial ﬂights, this in addition to certiﬁcation of kerosene pean biofuel roadmap and the setting up of the Biofuel produced by the Fischer-Tropsch process in 2009. The Flight Path” project. As part of ACARE (Advisory Council ASTM has set up working groups to carry out research for Aeronautics Research and Innovation in Europe), on two other types of fuel, a synthetic kerosene containAir France-KLM is involved in research of biofuel developing aromatics (SKA) and Alcohol to Jet Fuel (ATJ). ment. Air France took part in the Future Alternative Fuels Initiative (FCA) to develop biofuel production in France. SUSTAINABILITY AS A PREREQUISITE Air France and KLM are open to use different raw materials, as far as these comply with sustainability criteria internationally recognized. For example, their use must result in a substantial reduction in CO2 emissions, they must have a minimal negative impact on biodiversity and the food chain and they must not lead to deforestation. Air France and KLM have been members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels (RSB) through the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUg) since 2008, in order 36 st 1 commercial biofuels flights of Air France and KLM. POLITICAL SUPPORT use an average of 1% sustainable biofuels in its ﬂeet by 2015. This is an absolute challenge as no commercial During the 2011 Paris Air Show that took place in June market currently exists for these biofuels and prices need at Le Bourget, the European Commission, Airbus, biofuel to come down substantially. production companies, Air France-KLM, British Airways and Lufthansa launched the “European Advanced BioSALES AND DISTRIBUTION fuel Flight Path”. The initiative aims to achieve an annual production of 2 million tons of sustainably produced SkyNRG is the joint venture of KLM, North Sea Group biofuel for aviation by 2020. Members will work together and Spring Associates. SkyNRG’s mission is to help to promote the production, storage and use of biofuels. create a sustainable future for alternative aviation fuels. This objective will require the implementation of effective Since 2009, SkyNRG has been developing the technical, ﬁnancial mechanisms to support the construction of “ﬁrst sustainability, supply chain logistics and marketing capaof a kind” advanced biofuel production plants. bilities to deliver sustainable jet fuel to any commercial airline in the world. SkyNRG is advised by an independPRODUCTION ent sustainability board, composed of the WWF-NL, Solidaridad and the Copernicus Institute of the University Air France is taking part in a practical and innovative of Utrecht. In 2011, SkyNRG supplied biokerosene to demonstration project led by the CEA (Atomic and KLM and Air France. Although these ﬁrst commercial Renewable Energy Commission) to produce biofuels ﬂights represent a small overall contribution to global from forestry waste. Part of the 2,000 tons per year of jet fuel supplies, they are an essential catalyst for the BtL (Biomass to Liquid) produced could be used to fuel creation of this new market. Air France aircraft from 2015 onwards. Air France will also be part of a company (SYNDIESE), in charge of COMMERCIAL FLIGHTS BtL industrialization. 2011 saw the ﬁrst commercial Air France and KLM ﬂights powered by sustainable biofuels. All biofuels used must COMMITMENT AND COMMUNICATION meet the exact same technical speciﬁcations as traditional kerosene and must not require any adjustments Air France and KLM have spoken at numerous internato aircraft engines or infrastructure. tional conferences to promote and support the potential of sustainable biofuels on a global scale. In 2011, KLM and WWF-NL renewed their partnership for a further 4 years. As part of the agreement, KLM aims to CSR REPORT 2011 | ENVIRONMENT 37 Minimizing our environmental footprint Reducing COORDINATION BETWEEN PARTNERS IS ESSENTIAL Air France-KLM’s SCRAP programme recovers metal from aircraft and engine components in order to make new parts or to re-use parts that are still in good condition. The WASTE & ENERGY system, developed with General Electric and SOS Metals, uses a scanner to sort different types of metal. Air France recovered 29 tons of aircraft steel and alloys in 2011. This process enables to avoid the mining of nickel, resulting in a 110 tons reduction of CO2 emissions. KLM Scrap Plaza is a restricted area on the E&M site where different streams of technical waste are stored before being processed. CONTINUOUS PROGRESS OF OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Following a comprehensive audit carried out in June 1,200 liters waste water Since Scrap Plaza was launched in 2009, 38 containers of 40m3 have been ﬁlled with old components that have been recycled and reused as new materials through the SCRAP programme explained above. 2011, Air France’s ISO 14001 Environmental Certiﬁcasaved per week in the tion was renewed for a further three years. The audit cleaning operations of IMPROVING WASTE TREATMENT demonstrated the progress made in all of the company’s KLM Cityhopper. PROCESSES businesses. Forthcoming areas to focus on will be the implementation of new Environmental Management SysKLM Inﬂight Services, Ground Services and KLM Catering tems (EMS) management indicators and on structuring Services; all dealing with catering and onboard supplies, stakeholder consultation. 2011 also saw the operational have set up a Value Stream Mapping process for waste. roll out of the monitoring and regulatory compliance tool The process identiﬁed waste streams that can be optimized across all of the airline’s production sites. and opportunities to cut waste volumes and costs. This KLM has been ISO 14001 certiﬁed for all its operations process begins at the product development stage (reducin The Netherlands and on-board the aircraft since 1999, ing the amount of packaging used, removing products the certiﬁcate is bound to be renewed in 2012. that are rarely used onboard) and is followed by examining how products are transported and stored. Then it looks at LIMITING OUR WASTE workplace organization, by planning the recycling of certain Air France is involving its passengers by asking them to place their newspaper in a recycling container once they have read it. These dedicated containers are emptied by local recycling companies and are available on routes in mainland France and Europe. Over 75% of passengers participate voluntarily in this initiative. To reduce the amount of cooking oil used, Servair – Air France’s catering organization – has set up a ﬁltering equipment pilot site, resulting in a 50% reduction in the amount of oil purchased and disposed of. The optimization of disposable cups, opened packs of which were previously thrown away, has meant a 73 tons reduction in waste and a saving of more than 8 million cups. Thanks 2011 WATER to initiatives such as these, Servair received a special 2010 “Ecogestes Label” prize in March 2011 from Aéroports de Paris and ADEME. NON HAZARDOUS ELECTRICITY WASTE In 2011, KLM further reduced the meal tray cartons on all international ﬂights. This resulted in less waste as this measure applied to around 8 million meal trays. RECYCLED VOC EMISSIONS KLM Cityhopper reduced the amount of waste water HAZARDOUS WASTE coming from cleaning the water systems of aircraft by changing to a non chemical process, saving 1,200 liters HAZARDOUS WASTE waste water per week and €200,000 per year. 38 Supplier of plastics Raw Production Distribution Use material of articles Recycled raw NEO Food Box material Recycling Collection Onboard sorting materials (for example pillows). Finally, various improveenergy plant at its IT centre in Valbonne, south of France. ments for waste processing are examined. The solar Energy is free, abundant and renewable. The The recycling rate for NEO food boxes reached 36% on panels have been installed on six structures that provide average between October 2010 and February 2011, in shade in the centre’s main car park. The panels will eventutotal 16.5 tonnes of plastic were recycled. Since Decemally produce 814 KW, and represents 10% of the IT centre’s ber 2011, packs are marked “this pack is recycled and annual electricity consumption, or the equivalent of 400 used to produce new products” to inform customers. households’ annual consumption. The “Equinoxe” building, built as part of the ORYzon project BETTER RESOURCES has been awarded double HQE (High Quality Environmental standards) certiﬁcation in January 2012; HQE construction In September 2011, Air France began using brown paper and HQE use. The building combines high quality design refuse bags, which are more environmentally friendly than with continuous improvement, optimized maintenance white paper bags previously used, without reducing their reprocedures and the application of best practice to ensure sistance. The manufacture of the previous paper, especially HQE status. The building aims to achieve 30% less energy the whitening step, required the use of chemicals whereas use than stipulated in thermal regulations (thanks to the brown bags are made of unbleached natural wood ﬁbers. installation of efﬁcient glazing and insulation). In addition, the paper supplier uses pine from the Landes region, which has a positive environmental impact in terms of transport compared to remote countries supply. ENERGY EFFICIENCY In 2011, KLM E&M installed all toilets in Hangar 11 at Schiphol that use rainwater to ﬂush, LED lights to save energy and tiles made from recycled plastic. KLM’s IT Division conducted a study about its energy consumption. The study came up with four initiatives for the short term, for example replacing the tiles in its data centre ﬂoor and adjusting air conditionning and recirculation equipment. These actions resulted in energy savings of circa 250.000 KWH per year. In 2012, sustainability criteria will be part of the decision making process when renewing workstations. Solar powered dishwashers, Servair has equipped its bases on La Réunion, in Macao, Senegal and Burkina Faso with solar panels for dishwashers and hot water. The system reduces the energy required for heating water by 70%. Air France opened end of 2011 the setting up of a solar CSR REPORT 2011 | ENVIRONMENT 39 Minimizing our environmental footprint Preserving LOCAL AIR QUALITY 12% SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY KLM made further steps in making its lease cars more energy friendly by including hybrid and electric cars in As Air France is one of the major employers in the Paris its car offer to its employees. region, it has put in place an employee transport plan (PDE) in order to reduce emissions generated by the less private transport ROAD VEHICLES transport of its employees. This is particularly importo and from work by tant as the majority of employees work irregular hours Air France employees in the A two-year pilot with four electric cars, named Tazzari, and travel to work in their own car. This plan provides started in 2011 at Schiphol Airport. The Tazzaris are Paris region than in 2009, in a range of services such as a car sharing site, open replacing Volkswagen Polo’s and emit less CO2, NOx favor of public transport. shared ofﬁces, or courses of eco-driving and road safety and soot locally at airside. A saving of 55% CO2 was awareness. In order to encourages its employees to use obtained compared to normal cars, even though electricpublic transport, Air France reimburses the entire cost ity at Schiphol is not yet fully renewable. of “Navigo” travel cards. In 2011, Air France along with 4 other companies based at CDG airport, participated GROUND HANDLING EQUIPMENT in the set up of the ﬁrst Inter-Company Transport Plan (PDIE) in the Paris-CDG airport area, as well as Regional To reduce CO2 emissions from ground equipment by with Nantes-Atlantique airport. 12% compared to 2010 (especially the Ground Power Units which represents 49% of total ramp equipment consumption), Air France set in simultaneously several actions at CDG airport such as automatic shut down systems or reduction of the number of GPUs by improving maintenance of planes airports plugs. A special electric handling device, the PowerStow Unit, has come into service for the handling of KLM’s Embraers at Schiphol Airport. Since it is an electric device, it does not emit CO2 locally and is less noisy, while diminishing the physical hard work of loading luggage into the aircraft. A total of 17 PowerStow Units are ordered and will be phased in gradually. KLM Ground Services also started a pilot with an Electric-tractor, for the push-back of KLM Cityhopper aircraft. This period is meant to test the user friendliness (the E-tractor is less noisy) and efﬁciency. The Orly Air France cargo centre has replaced all tractors used for hauling pallets between the cargo terminal and passenger aircraft positions. Fuel-efﬁcient electronically managed LPG engines power the new vehicles and driver comfort has also been improved (hydraulic suspension for seats, heating, soundprooﬁng of the driver’s cabin). 40 Protecting BIODIVERSITY AN INDIRECT IMPACT in order to study changes in this untouched part of The “Biodiversity is for BUT MAJOR CHALLENGE Central African Republic. Air France-KLM also a Air France-KLM supports the development of REDD license to operate, with Preservation of biodiversity is a major challenge, although (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Detheir customers traveling the impact of airline industry on it is indirect. It mainly gradation), aimed at reducing emissions of carbon stored to many beautiful places. occurs through the emission of CO2, which contributes in forests and protecting species whilst at the same time We believe the Group to climate change. Air France-KLM supports several providing social beneﬁts for the local inhabitants. can and will continue initiatives that protect biodiversity. to play a frontrunner STANDARD SETTING PROJECT role in CSR, like using DEVELOPING STRATEGY AND AGAINST DEFORESTATION sustainable biofuels and SUPPORTING PROGRAMMES sustainability in other Deforestation is responsible for around 15% of global supply chains. Within the In order to examine and formulate its future strategy in greenhouse gas emissions, almost equal to all forms IUCN NL Inspirational relation to preserving biodiversity, KLM looked closely with of transport combined. Committed to the ﬁght against Programme, KLM Exeter University (UK) at KLM’s relationship with the natuclimate change, Air France supports, since 2008, a major investigates further its ral environment. This research gave in particular insight in project which aims to preserve more than 32 million contribution to protect where it relied upon and impacted ecosystem services, tonnes of carbon, stored in more than 500,000 hectares biodiversity and enhance such as food, destinations, climate regulation. of forest. At a global level, the WWF considers Madaecosystem services; As follow up, KLM signed the IUCN Leaders for Nature gascar to be one of the 35 key regions in the world for moving from inspiration Inspirational Programme for Ecosystems. Signatories the protection of biodiversity. to action.” have the intention together to develop projects on biodiFour years on from the start of the programme, versity and ecosystems in The Netherlands and abroad. Air France, and its partners GoodPlanet and the WWF MARIELIES As part of its partnership with WWF-NL, KLM ﬁnancially can point out their ﬁrst successes: nearly 350,000 hecE.W. SCHELHAAS, supports three of WWF’s conservation projects: the Coral tares have been protected and secured, 29 natural Teamcoordinator Energy Triangle in Indonesia, green island economy project Boresource management transfer contracts have been & Climate, International naire and a forestry programme in Brazil. signed, reforestation targets have been reached in cerUnion for Conservation Air France is contributing to the SANGHA 2012 project tain areas, 5,000 households have given up slash and of Nature NL “Biodiversity in Pygmy Country” by transporting equipburn cultivation in favor of alternative farming methods ment and people involved in this expedition which aims and 25,600 households have been informed about the to document biodiversity, a necessary preliminary step effects of climate change. CSR REPORT 2011 | ENVIRONMENT 41 42 Society CSR REPORT 2011 43 Context Ambition While Air France-KLM is mobilized around adjusting to a difﬁcult ecoDifferentiating ourselves in nomic environment, the Group continues to prioritize investment aimed an increasingly competitive at strengthening relationships with customers through the high quality environment by offering a and efﬁciency of its products and services. personalized and pro-active Listening to customers and anticipating to their needs by putting emphasis customer approach whilst on personalization, innovation, responsiveness and assistance during travel, making sustainability integral to are the cornerstones of the Group’s customer-centric strategy and focus of our products and services. continuous improvement. The new ways of maintaining dialogue with customers, particularly through social media, reveal a growing interest in our CSR initiatives. This dialogue has supported the Group’s efforts in recent years and encouraged it to pursue the development of sustainable products and services throughout the customer’s journey. Our challenge is making our actions more visible, successfully involving customers in our CSR approach and to remaining our customers’ carrier of choice. 44 Building a sustainable relationship with our customers Commitments In order to achieve our customer ambition we are committed to the following: Continually improving the service we provide to our customers; Excelling in operational performance; Developing services to keep in touch with customers and providing seamless travel from departure to arrival; Providing assistance in the case of unforeseen events; Developing sustainable products & services all along the journey. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 45 Building a sustainable relationship with our customers Objectives Main achievements 2011 IMPROVING service quality AIR FRANCE AND KLM CONNECT, A REALTIME INFORMATION SERVICE HAS BEEN AVAILABLE free of charge in 10 languages since 2011 NEW AIR FRANCE CLASS “AFFAIRES” AND KLM “EUROPEAN BUSINESS CLASS” offer more service and comfort RETAIN OUR POSITION AT THE TOP KLM AND AIR FRANCE HOLD 1ST AND 2ND PLACES of the AEA’s punctuality ranking of major airlines in the AEA’s arrivals punctuality ranking for major airlines operating from a hub airport INCREASE INTERACTION 1,400,000 FANS ON FACEBOOK, this number has with our customers via social media more than tripled compared to the previous year 310,000 TWITTER FOLLOWERS, an increase of 42%. Providing responses to questions on a daily basis, regular events, videochats and direct dialogue with our experts INCREASE OVERALL CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SINCE THE LAUNCH OF AIR FRANCE’S of assistance service AND KLM'S CONNECT SERVICE IN 2011, the overall satisfaction rate with the “Recovery” assistance service has increased by 30% INCREASE CUSTOMER KNOWLEDGE AROUND 1 IN 3 FLYING BLUE MEMBERS about Air France and KLM’s CSR actions spontaneously mention at least one CSR action from Air France or KLM INCREASE sustainable products onboard NEW RE-USABLE HEADPHONES IN AIR FRANCE VOYAGEUR CABIN offer improved sound quality while reducing waste and creating employment in the sheltered sector 9 NEW SUSTAINABLE products added to KLM’s onboard catering offer First prize in customer service, transport category Award for the best e-reputation: Air France received for the 2nd year running for Air France by BearingPoint an award for its responsiveness on social media. and TNS Sofres. The prize was awarded by Communication & Entreprise. Best Use of Mobile Technology Award to KLM awarded Best Digital Marketing Company Air France-KLM during the global forum for travel industry of 2011 by NIMA Award category Digital Marketing, stakeholders “Future Travel Experience” in Vancouver for its use of “Best Airline in Social Media” by SimpliFlying. smartphones, development of apps for check-in and free notiﬁcation service, Air France and KLM Connect. 46 Measuring OUR PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Punctuality and ﬂight regularity1 are priorities for the customer and an important part of evaluating service quality. Information on Air France and KLM’s punctuality and ﬂight regularity performance is regularly updated on its corporate website and AEA's website2. In 2011, Air France-KLM’s operations were impacted by a series of weather-related and political events like the tsunami in Japan, the eruption of the Grimsvötn volcano and the Arab Springs. To respond effectively to crisis situations and capitalize on the lessons learnt from previous experiences, Air France reinforced its operational management procedure by creating a Commercial Crisis and Communications Team in 2011, Air France's operational performance dashboard (2011 results for all ﬂights) headed by the Duty Sales Director and comprising a multidisciplinary team. It brings together all the skills across the +2.9 points Regularity company needed to adapt the commercial rules to crisis % Flights operated v/s ﬂights scheduled at D-3. situations and coordinate the messages sent to customers to offer them the best-possible assistance. 99.0% Both airlines analyze encounters during unforeseen events. Air France has a system in place which enables all de+6.1 points Punctuality partments to share the analysis of incidents and use this % Flights leaving on time or within 15 minutes. information to improve decision making and action plan management, in order to improve problem resolution. 83.5% CUSTOMER SATISFACTION +0.15 points Baggage % Baggage successfully delivered on arrival. AND DIALOGUE Air France-KLM continuously monitors its customers’ sat98.84% isfaction with products & services through different surveys and communities. These surveys cover the entire client experience, from reservation to after sales care and allow both companies to monitor their customers’ perceptions on a continuous basis. In 2011, 565,000 passengers evaluated the service the Group provides by responding to onboard surveys. The Group also involves its customers in the development of new products & services via social media and customer panels. 12,000 active members of fb@home take regularly part in surveys about our products and services as well as 500 customers using the chat facility on the inTouch blog. Besides through its 7 service standards, Air France-KLM makes a public commitment to customers about the service they can expect. 1. Regularity: ratio between actual ﬂights and ﬂights planned 3 days before departure. 2. http://corporate.airfrance.com and http://www.aea.be CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 47 Building a sustainable relationship with our customers Developing A SUSTAINABLE AND INNOVATIVE PRODUCT RANGE Committed to setting the standards in Corporate Social Responsibility, Air France and KLM increasingly offer their customers sustainable products and services. Some of these initiatives proposed throughout the customer’s journey are outlined below. AT THE AIRPORT Seamless travel and customised services An “Express service” enables passengers who printed their own baggage tags from self-service check-in kiosks to use dedicated baggage drop-off counters. Launched in March 2011 in Orly and Bordeaux, this service will be progressively introduced at RoissyCDG and most regional airports. BEFORE TAKE OFF Personalized services adapted to the speciﬁc needs Facilitating boarding and travel preparation of the customers: multi-cultural staff, an unaccompanied minor service for children travelling alone now Independent access to all essential booking and accessible by e-booking, assistance for passengers check-in services via websites and mobile versions with impaired mobility: KLM Care and Saphir. The of these sites. Air France's Saphir service celebrated its 10-year Automatic display of the lowest available fares, full anniversary in 2011. information on the terms and conditions relating to The introduction of sustainable catering products in fares during online reservation. KLM’s lounges. Information for customers via our various communication channels on destinations and trip preparation, 400,000 passengers with impaired mobility and 420,000 including health advice and services. unaccompanied children travelled with Air France and Option to calculate and offset CO2 emissions. KLM in 2011. 48 AIR FRANCE AND KLM CONNECT, is a real time information service permitting to keep in contact with the customers all along the journey. Passengers are immediately informed about delays, gate changes or missing baggage via email or SMS to their smartphone, providing them with updates of the latest information on their journey. ONBOARD AFTER ARRIVAL Increasing sustainability in our onboard product offer Continuing dialogue and providing service assistance Ethical and fair trade products are available in Duty Free onboard Air France and KLM aircraft. Customer services that deal with incidents as quickly 9 sustainable catering products added by KLM such as possible: online claims for baggage missing on aras organic eggs and bread, Better Life labelled veal. rival, proactive care in the case of disruption to ﬂights. An organic meal proposed by Air France on long-haul Corporate customer accounts support: personalized ﬂights for an additional fee by April 2012. services such as CO2 reports available on request. Reducing the weight of service and cabin equipAnnual CSR survey carried out among Flying Blue ment through ecodesign, for example Air France's customers: identify expectations and measure awarenew business class offers a lie-ﬂat seat-bed which is ness of current initiatives. The priority actions for cus5 kg lighter than the model it replaces. KLM reduced tomers in 2011 were: reducing CO2 emissions, onweight by using one trolley less for European Busiboard weight and waste, recycling, and eco-design. ness Class. Healthcare equipment, relaxation videos, highly ﬁrst 24% of Air France customers and 38% of KLM customaid trained staff. ers have heard about at least one of the Group’s CSR Building awareness about CSR issues through various initiatives. onboard communication channels, in-ﬂight entertainment, magazines, etc. 601 million miles donated by Flying Blue members to NGO’s supported by Air France and KLM in 2011. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 49 Building a sustainable relationship with our customers Minimizing THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR INFLIGHT SERVICE ECO-DESIGN Re The Group works in close cooperation with “Air France introduced gradually new headphones in t d en suppliers, trains experts in the different busiits Voyageur cabin in May 2012. These headphones Rei uce nesses and deploys new tools to facilitate provide improved sound quality and marginally nv ECOeco-design in the decision-making process. lower ambient noise levels. An environmental and In 2011, a Life Cycle Analysis tool was tested societal approach was taken into account while DESIGN to help the inﬂight department to identify aldeveloping the new reusable headphones. They le ternative solutions enabling a reduction in the yc are collected, cleaned, tested and reconditioned by Re us c environmental impact of inﬂight equipment. a sheltered sector company based near Roissye Re This approach has four key pillars: reinvent, CDG. Headphones that have reached the end of reduce, recycle and reuse. their lifecycle are recycled by a company dedicated to specific recycling. This initiative has resulted in Reinvent better product quality for customers, the creation Air France is replacing the seats in its aircraft with new, lighter versions, of 50 jobs for people with disabilities and an annual enabling a reduction of 60,000 tons of CO2 annually while offering pasreduction in waste of 400 tons.” sengers greater comfort. KLM has launched a pilot project to test pre-ﬂight ordering of Duty Free GÉRARD ROUSSEL, articles to reduce the weight unnecessarily carried on board. Purchasing coordinator for the sheltered sector, Air France Reduce waste Adapting the packaging of onboard products, such as by using large bottles rather than small cans for drinks on Air France long-haul ﬂights and less meal tray cartons at international KLM ﬂights. Providing infrequently used items on a request basis rather than distributing them automatically, such as ear plugs on long-haul ﬂights. Providing reusable headphones in the Air France Voyageurs cabin, which offer improved sound quality and save 400 tons of waste carried per year. Recycle Get customers involved in recycling newspapers on several Air France’s domestic and European ﬂights; trials have shown a participation rate in excess of 75%. Air France and KLM recycle used onboard equipments (blankets, tableware, etc.). At Roissy-CDG and Amsterdam Schiphol, non recyclable onboard waste is burnt and converted into energy. Air France set up speciﬁc recycling treatment adapted for speciﬁc waste, as the out-of-service audio headsets. Reuse Sorting and collecting meal packs on medium-haul Air France ﬂights to produce new onboard service equipment. Collection and re-supply of unused economy class headsets on long-haul KLM ﬂights. 50 Innovating FOR SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS AT CARGO AND MAINTENANCE EFFICIENT CARGO Air France-KLM is making Cargo more efﬁcient and trans7,800 tons paper saving estimated which in turn leads to less CO2 emissions. At the end of 2011, during the trial period, the total number of e-freight shipments reached 4%. In 2012 a parent by digitalising transport documentation in cooperathanks to e-freight. higher proportion of e-freight is expected. tion with customers and other industry partners. The objective of “E-freight” is to achieve optimized, paper ADAPTIVE MAINTENANCE SERVICES free document processing, guaranteeing compliance with national and international regulations, making docuThe ambition of Air France Industries KLM Engineering ment processing faster, cheaper and more reliable. & Maintenance (AFI KLM E&M) is to be adaptive in a The project will beneﬁt the environment by replacing the 20 changing environment, offering tailor made, reliable and to 30 paper documents currently required with electronic adapted solutions to its airline customers. For instance, documents, thus saving an estimated 7,800 tonnes of padue to the current economic situation repairing is preper per year. It will also lead to weight reduction on board, ferred instead of replacing. This results in both a reduction of maintenance costs as well as resource savings. Due to high fuel costs, efﬁcient engines are more important than ever. KLM E&M, in conjunction with the Dutch Aerospace Lab and the Technical University of Delft, has developed a software tool called Gas path Simulation Programme (GSP). The purpose of this tool is to simulate gasturbine thermodynamic performance and evaluate modular efﬁciencies, resulting in optimal performance with balanced costs. In July 2011, AFI complemented its industrial capacity by opening a new jet engine test bench built at Roissy-CDG. The objective is to be capable of testing several engine types including Very Big Engines and Next Generation engines in order to signiﬁcantly reduce maintenance costs. The Customer Ofﬁce system enables customers to track the progress of testing in real time. This progress illustrates ISO 26000 standards in action: listening to stakeholders and including social and environmental criteria in ﬁnancial analyzes. The new engine test bench provides three major advantages: fast and efﬁcient service for customers at a one-stop. signiﬁcant cost savings per engine. an environmental approach which also takes into account noise hindrance to local residents from the beginning through noise level testing campaigns. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 51 Context Ambition As a major player in international air transport, Air France-KLM purWe aim to create a safe sues a social policy and shares the values of respect, solidarity and and motivating working professionalism. environment to facilitate every In current economic and ﬁnancial climate together with growing and intense employee taking responsibility competition, the Group is facing up multiple challenges in which it has to adapt for the company’s performance to a faster pace of change. At the same time, the Group continues to ensure and competitiveness. We effective social dialogue, develop the employability and skills of its employees pursue a responsible social and maintain effective relations with employees and their representatives. policy along with ongoing In this context, Air France-KLM has launched a transformation plan aimed at communication and encourage restoring the Group’s competitiveness over the next three years. This plan has professional development. been adapted within each company to ensure the most appropriate response to achieving the priority objectives. 52 Promoting a responsible human resources policy Commitments We carry out our ambition through the following commitments: Boost staff members’ employability through training and by improving mobility and ﬂexibility; Promoting health and safety in the workplace; Leading change whilst maintaining effective dialogue with employees and employee representatives; Promoting respect, well-being and work-life balance; Fostering diversity in order to preserve our attractiveness as an employer and to encourage new talent to surface. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 53 Promoting a responsible human resources policy Objectives Main achievements 2011 Enhance MOBILITY 2000 EMPLOYEES CHANGED JOBS, 50% more than in 2010 NUMBER OF ANNOUNCEMENTS on the Job Market doubled Develop THE WAY WE WELCOME YOUNG PEOPLE Signature of the 6TH 3-YEAR INTERNSHIP CHARTER AND WORK-STUDY STUDENTS NUMBER OF APPRENTICES doubled in 2011 to reach almost 400 Promote EFFECTIVE DIALOGUE WITH EMPLOYEES AGREEMENT SIGNED with cockpit crew representatives AND THEIR REPRESENTATIVES following the opening of the Marseille base Train employees TO DEVELOP 95% OF GROUND STAFF AND 100 % OF CABIN THEIR EMPLOYABILITY CREW have completed training 7.9% OF THE COMPANY'S PAYROLL dedicated to training PERSONAL TRAINING ENTITLEMENTS (so called DIF) represented 14% of overall training for ground staff REDUCE THE NUMBER OF WORKPLACE 10% DECREASE in the number of workplace accidents ACCIDENTS by 30% between 2012-2014 Pursue commitments to promote DIVERSITY THIRD 3-YEAR AGREEMENT ON GENDER EQUALITY, payroll compensation for 349 women EMPLOYMENT RATE OF DISABLED EMPLOYEES: 4.17% (3.92% in 2010) 8TH 3-YEAR AGREEMENT to promote the employement of disabled people (2012-2014) Objectives Main achievements 2011 Stimulate employability through MOBILITY 401 KLM employees enlisted the “START WORKING ON YOUR FUTURE” PROGRAMME Stimulate employability through TRAINING Validation of Prior Learning certiﬁcate REACHED AND DEVELOPMENT A MILESTONE WITH ITS 100TH PARTICIPANT Promote HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE Approval received from the Works Council FOR POLICIES ON HANDLING ASBESTOS IN BUILDINGS during renovation work Survey on safety culture to indicate opportunities for improvement received A RESPONSE RATE OF 33%. MANAGE ABSENTEEISM and improve Asenteeism, a step in the right direction: from 6.44% in 2010 chances of disabled employees TO 6.11% IN 2011 Positive evaluation outcomes of the renewed policy ON EMPLOYEES RETURNING TO WORK AFTER LONG-TERM ABSENTEEISM. Support DIVERSITY The Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender (LGBT) network welcomed ITS 250TH MEMBER KLM SIGNED THE COMPANY PRIDE PLATFORM AGREEMENT, linking its LGBT network to that of other companies Increase FLEXIBILITY 70 EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATED IN THIS YEAR’S DE-ICING OPERATION on a voluntary basis 54 Adapting TO THE CHANGING ECONOMIC CLIMATE RESPONSIBLE STAFF MANAGEMENT 29.3 Due to the current economic situation, KLM and its social partners have decided to delay negotiations to Since the beginning of the ﬁnancial crisis, Air France-KLM agree on a new collective agreement until spring 2012, has pursued a policy to reduce costs, increase ﬂexibility and these negotiations were originally due to take place in improve its responsiveness. At Air France this has led to a autumn 2011. hours of training per gradual 7.3% reduction in its workforce between January Air France employee. 2009 and December 2011. Already in 2010, the Voluntary TRAINING Departure Plan enabled 1,834 to beneﬁt from help in moving on to new projects, 400 of these people set up their Training is one of the main ways of providing support and own businesses. assistance during change within the Group and in helping individual employees with their projects to boost their FACILITATING MOBILITY own employability. Despite the economic situation, the ongoing development of training programmes (combinMobility is key to sustainable employability. To ensure ing face-to-face learning with e-learning) has contributed that mobility can take place in the smoothest way posto maintaining a high level of access to training. sible, Air France has developed a qualitative Human Air France-KLM employees are actively involved in planResources and Skills Planning Process. This scheme ning their career paths. The growing use of personal includes career orientation and mobility initiatives such training entitlements (so called DIF or Droit Individuel à as a “Mobility Unit”, an “Observatoire des Métiers” and la Formation) at Air France illustrates this point. 800 KLM a “Job Market”. In 2011, 2,000 people changed jobs employees followed the “Start working on your future” within the company, an increase of 50% (128 ground programme from its launch through to 2011. staff gained executive status). New training materials have been made available to line At the end of 2011, a sixth 3-year Internship Charter was managers and HR managers to assist them with change signed, reafﬁrming the company’s willingness to develop in their divisions. The joint Air France-KLM ‘Energy and the way it welcomes and provides support for young Change’ training programme provides tools to better people following apprenticeship courses. Air France has understand the mechanics of change, to adjust their continued to recruit “young executives” (37 in 2011). roles, manage resistance and communicate in order to In response to the intended withdrawal of Boeinvolve their teams (356 participants followed the training ing 747s within KLM’s aircraft fleet, KLM Engineercourse in 2011). ing & Maintenance (E&M) has gradually closed down The “KLM Academy” programme for management trainD-check maintenance. To facilitate mobility for the 300 eming is being continued in partnership with the University ployees involved, a job centre was opened to offer training of Nijenrode and joint Air France-KLM programmes with and career advice. As of 2012 all employees have acquired Carnﬁeld University and HEC. Training for new managa new position, mostly in line with their personal preferences. ers on management decision-making and management principles is also being continued. ONGOING SOCIAL DIALOGUE Air France-KLM promotes effective social dialogue by pursuing a policy based on respect for people. A framework agreement on changes to European outstations was signed with the European Works Council in December 2011. The 15 sessions held by Air France’s Corporate Works Council and the 12 held by KLM enabled elected representatives to be consulted and/or informed on broad company policy, and on the drawing up of a two-stage transformation plan. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 55 Promoting a responsible human resources policy Safeguarding HEALTH AND SAFETY LOWER ACCIDENT RATES SETTING GOALS AND MONITOR The health and safety of staff members in the workplace Air France will renew its three-year initiative with the aim is a key priority for Air France-KLM. Its importance is Never of reducing the frequency of accidents in the workplace supported from the highest management levels to all compromise by 30% between 2012 and 2014. departments in the business. Projects are monitored step by step by each of the SteerProgress was made in this area in 2011 through strong on safety ing Committees, and periodic evaluations are carried out commitment at executive level and by managing the within Air France’s Executive Committee. Executive Vice fundamentals: Presidents have committed to reducing accidents in the 10% reduction in the frequency rate of work related workplace through action plans and contracts stipulating accident at Air France, precise objectives for each entity within the Group. decline in the number of serious accidents down from At KLM, monitoring is the responsibility of the Executive 11 the previous year to 4 at KLM. Committee and the Quality and Safety Board. The Board’s goal is to ensure that the rate of serious accidents in 2012 The Group intends to continue the good rate of progress is less than 4 and a rate of less than 4.1 accidents per in initiatives and outcomes in this area on which there one million hours worked. ( For further information, see can be no compromise. page 74, Health and Safety, accidents in the workplace) TAKING PREVENTATIVE MEASURES A survey was carried out among all KLM staff: 33% of the GLOBAL FREQUENCY RATE, AIR FRANCE employees responded to questions concerning behaviour Number of lost-time injuries per million hours worked of managers and their own attitude regarding safety regulations and practices. The ﬁndings have lead to measures REALIZED REALIZED IN 2011 OBJECTIVE including adjustment of the introduction programme for new employees and the implementation of a two-year e-learning 40 safety programme for managers. 26.23 At Air France risks to employees are anticipated and avoided 30 at an early stage through the application of an ergonomic approach to designing infrastructure, new tools and equipment. 20 In addition to its “Central Ergonomics Unit”, the company’s ergonomics experts work closely with operational users. 10 The involvement of ﬁeld managers, employees, and “preventers” enables potentially dangerous situations to be detected 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and encourages preventative measures to be taken such as the “on the ground focus method”. This approach, based on the participation of all employees involved, has a proven track record of success resulting in faster improvement. Schiphol in cooperation with KLM has opened a baggage hall. It is the world's ﬁrst to use innovative techniques such as baggage robots and an automated baggage buffer. This increases efﬁciency, reduces the physical demands on employees involved and reduces occupational safety risks. PROMOTING SAFETY CULTURE Holding events and conventions on the theme of safety in the workplace helps to spread the message of safety 56 culture and the issues at stake in the company. At KLM, psychosocial risks and quality of life in the workplace KLM’s IT department safety awareness campaigns have taken place and new was put into practice in all divisions of the company, tested a new way initiatives have been put into action, one of which concerns by way of multi-disciplinary groups led by Psychosocial of working, “The the introduction of a Voluntary Safety Report in addition to Risk experts. New World of Work” the Air Safety Report for ﬂight operations employees and KLM experiments new ways of working. As in previous which offers flexibility cabin crew. years at KLM, the company is encouraging members of in terms of working KLM continued its safety champions (managers in charge staff to lead a healthy lifestyle by supporting the 1,100 location and time. of promoting safety), awarding employees for innovative employees taking part in the Amsterdam to Zaandam The results of the trial ideas that improve safety. 10km run. At the same time, the Ground Operations were encouraging. Air France held in ﬁeld forums within its operating and supDepartment organized a week-long campaign to proEmployees were port entities in France. The organization of benchmarking mote awareness about healthy living for older people; on able to better forums on speciﬁc topics such as psychosocial risks, the the programme were, among others, health checkups, manage their workdanger of falling and musculoskeletal disorders also testiﬁes massages. life balance and to openness to ideas from outside the company. felt empowered The in ﬁeld training sessions provided goes beyond statuSOCIAL PROTECTION FOR ALL in their work. The tory requirements and is in itself a tool for preventing acEMPLOYEES trial, including 60 cident risks. employees, scheme Management is involved on a collective basis during the Air France-KLM employs around 7500 locally throughout annual Health and Safety in the Workplace Conference, the world, who all beneﬁt from the values and commitwill be extended to during which awards for safety performance are presented ments laid out in Air France-KLM’s Social Rights and other divisions in to managers in operational divisions. Ethics Charter. The majority of the Group’s local staff 2012. At Air France an awareness campaign that aims to reduce beneﬁt from social security, ensuring they receive sickground trafﬁc speed (a frequent cause of workplace acness and maternity beneﬁts, along with arrangements cidents) has been launched, and training has been made to ensure they can beneﬁt from a decent standard of available to all Air France-KLM outstation managers. living during their retirement and are covered against accident and death. In addition, the Group offers comQUALITY OF LIFE IN THE WORKPLACE plimentary insurance coverage where public provision does not meet the required standards. The Group is also The improvement of quality of life in the workplace is a developing a responsible health policy for its employees, means of improving performance. At Air France in 2011, in particular through campaigns on preventing speciﬁc the three-year agreement on method and prevention of local health risks. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 57 Promoting a responsible human resources policy Promoting EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND DIVERSITY FOLLOWING THROUGH ON OUR COMMITMENTS In line with its Social Rights and Ethics Charter, Air France-KLM is pursuing a social policy based on integration through work, respect for equal opportunities, combating discrimination and promoting diversity. Equal opportunity rules apply in particular to recruitment and internal selection processes. All Air France employees involved in these processes are subject to the Recruitment, Selection and Redeployment Code of Ethics. To encourage a process of continual improvement, surveys are regularly carried out among job applicants to measure their level of satisfaction. Despite the ﬁnancial crisis, Air France is continuing to fulﬁll its responsibilities towards young people entering the labor market. Its signature of the sixth Internship Charter illustrated this in December. On 1 November, 524 apprentices were present in the company. In 2011, GENDER EQUALITY AND RESPECT FOR SEXUAL ORIENTATIONS At Air France the 3rd three-year agreement on gender 42.8% of total workforce 88 apprentices were offered permanent contracts in the equality in the workplace was agreed unanimously by are women Maintenance Division. unions representing employees at company level, provid( For further information, In 2011, KLM welcomed 691 interns, a number that has ing continuity to a ten year long commitment. see page 76) remained stable over the years. The agreement has three main objectives: To establish a common methodology for measuring A STRONG POLICY FOR DISABLED professional and wage equality, “Subtle discrimination PEOPLE To ensure equal opportunity and treatment, and undesirable behavior To come up with practical measures concerning worktargeting LGBT people In 2011, Air France welcomed 30 new disabled employlife balance. unfortunately still exists at ees, bringing the total number of disabled employees Support for associations promoting equal opportunithe workplace. Protective to 1,634. ties was also reafﬁrmed, as were a series of measures legislation is in place The proportion of disabled employees rose in 2011 to enabling employees with young children to organize their but cannot prevent all reach 4.17%, compared with 3.92% in 2010. professional lives more effectively around their family unwanted behavior. It is At KLM, when sick leave leads to an employee’s perresponsibilities. The company notably pays part of their my personal mission to manent inability to fulﬁll their contractual duties, even salaries to employees on paternity leave. increase the visibility of when the employee has changed jobs to one which is KLM supports diversity in its workplace, for instance LGBT employees and to more compatible with their disability, the employee is regarding ethnic background, gender, sexual preference, ensure that management considered to be legally disabled. religion and age. More speciﬁcally, KLM respects the is aware of their It is now easier for KLM employees who have acquired a sexual orientation of its employees via the “Over the responsibilities to create a disability to return to work, as they are no longer required Rainbow” social network aimed at Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual LGBT-friendly workplace to apply for a new job (when returning to their previous and Transgender (LGBT) staff to meet with colleagues of environment.” job is not possible), they are instead offered a suitable all sexual orientations to discuss LGBT related issues. position. In 72% of these cases, matching disabled emThe network currently has 250 members. WARNER ployees with available positions has proven successful. Furthermore, the commercial division of KLM has introVAN DER VEER-JEHEE, In 2011 KLM had 656 disabled employees, an increase duced an overview of management tools to promote President of the network of 2% to 2010. more female participation. “Over the Rainbow” 58 Involving EMPLOYEES LISTENING TO STAFF “When I joined from the Kenyan organization Wild Living Resources. Air France, my During World Environment Day, various KLM managers Several barometers are in place to measure levels of emdepartment had been participated in the Electric Car Rally, an event to promote ployee satisfaction within the Group, such as the IPSOS well informed about electric driving. As a result of this rally, KLM started a Survey or the IPM tool (Internal Perception Monitoring). issues relating to two month pilot project in which employees could use For the past two years, a speciﬁc survey on Corporate deafness. My colleagues an electric car for short distance transportation during Social Responsibility (CSR) has been carried out among were able to learn signs working hours. employees and customers, in order to cross-reference to communicate simple Air France took part in conferences and organizes stands the results and their expectations. things and I found myself during Sustainable Development Week and Mobility giving them advice. Week. BUILDING AWARENESS The training really helped Furthermore, a disability information and awareness me normalize the situation booklet was circulated to all employees and a training At KLM, quarterly “CSR cafés” are held in order to build and the atmosphere course on psychological disability was also offered. awareness of CSR issues among employees. In 2011, the was great.” “Over the Rainbow” network initiated a session dedicated CSR TRAINING to diversity. The CSR café has also focused on the launch ALEXANDRE STEPHANT, of a pilot for a sustainable product range in the KLM shop a hearing-impaired employee An e-learning module on CSR has been developed and is made available to a large majority of the Group’s employees. At KLM, CSR issues are integrated into several training courses, such as the e-learning course in the Maintenance Department and initiatives to build awareness about fuel consumption in the Flight Operations Department. INVOLVING STAFF MEMBERS Air France-KLM involves employees in progress and innovation initiatives. Air France’s Innovation Quality Programme (PIQ), recognizes the best suggestions put forward by Air France Maintenance employees. In 2011, 5,811 suggestions were submitted, more than 75% of which will be put into practice, resulting in total savings of 20 million euros annually. At KLM, the “moonshining” programme at Engineering & Maintenance encourages innovative employee solutions to improve health and safety in the workplace. One of the ideas put into practice in 2011 involved a lightweight box that doubles as a supporting tool when the brake is removed from the aircraft. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 59 Context Ambition A growing world population, growth in emerging economies and expecWe strive to add economic and tations that people will continue traveling will make that aviation remains social value in the areas where a high-growth industry in coming decades. Air France-KLM takes up its we operate, this begins with our role in these developments and thereby continues to contribute to ecoﬂight services which connect nomic and social development through its business activities and large people and business around network, thereby also stimulating trade within other sectors. the world. By working together Air France and KLM continue to take their responsibility at hubs and destinawith local partners, we create tions through job creation, sharing skills and exchange knowledge via partnernew business opportunities and ships and long term dialogue with local stakeholders. Where possible creating support projects contributing new business opportunities. to the long-term well-being of The Group also supports development projects of NGO's by making human, local communities. ﬁnancial and logistic means available, and also encourages the involvement of its employees in development projects. 60 Contributing to local development Commitments We carry out our ambition through the following commitments: Contribute to the local economy through our capacity to create business and jobs, for example by using local suppliers; Build long-term relationships with local stakeholders through dialogue and partnerships; Share skills and knowledge; Encourage our employees to participate in development projects; Assist by providing human, logistical and ﬁnancial support for development programmes. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 61 Contributing to local development Objectives Main achievements 2011 CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT at hubs PARTICIPATION IN THE GRAND PARIS and in the Grand Roissy COOPERATION BETWEEN AMSTERDAM LOCAL AUTHORITIES, KLM, SCHIPHOL to strengthen the international competitiveness of a sustainable Amsterdam region STRONG INVOLVEMENT IN EMPLOYMENT FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES: in 2011 Air France subcontracted €13 million to the sheltered sector Contribution to SKILLS DEVELOPMENT FOR YOUNG PEOPLE AIR FRANCE: 4,534 students provided with information on aviation careers by Airemploi, 590 local young people trained by JEREMY and 554 young apprentices and interns at AFMAé, incl. 210 apprentices at Air France KLM: 691 interns deployed in all divisions, coming from universities and education centres throughout The Netherlands CONTINUATION OF LONG-TERM DIALOGUE with local INVOLVEMENT IN WORKING GROUPS stakeholders at the hubs ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT of the Roissy and Orly areas ONGOING DIALOGUE in working groups Alders Table and CROS in Schiphol area PROMOTION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AROUND 2,500 LOCAL SUPPLIERS used at our destinations by the Group in the countries served PARTNERSHIP AIR FRANCE, GOODPLANET, WWF: the Madagascar project to combat deforestation helps 5,000 families to beneﬁt with additional income and improved living conditions Maintain a strong COMMITMENT TO Air France-KLM: €13.2 MILLION in funding for SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS AIR FRANCE FOUNDATION: involvement in 116 projects KLM AIRCARES: working with 6 partners, supporting the various projects of each partner 1. Source: McKinsey & Company & The Boston Consulting Group 2. Source: BIPE/ADP 2012 study 62 Contributing TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT AROUND OUR HUBS IMPACTING LOCAL ECONOMIES CONTRIBUTING TO SKILLS DEVELOPMENT The airports in Paris and Schiphol offer a high number of connections, Air France supports initiatives that promote access to training for careers providing an extensive, high quality network resulting in an attractive busiin aviation through its involvement in different associations. KLM provides ness environment. support for educational programmes for young people, through informaAs major employers at their hubs, Air France and KLM contribute signiﬁcantly tion, training and work placements. ( For further information, see page 64) to job creation. The KLM Group employs more than 30,000 of the 60,000 people directly employed at Schiphol airport, while Air France employs almost VOLUNTARY INITIATIVES 47,000 in the Paris region, and thus is the ﬁrst regional employer. Added to this is the indirect and induced economic activity generated by the airports, The “Amis de la Fondation Air France” network mobilizes more than 2,000 such as catering, cleaning and supplies. employees in a range of voluntary and fundraising schemes in France. For Air France has demonstrated its commitment to providing employment for example, in 2011 the organization took part in a breakfast event for the pardisabled people by doubling its procurement from sheltered sector compaents of children undergoing neurosurgery at the Necker Children’s Hospital. nies over the past four years and continues to identify new opportunities. In KLM takes part in local fundraising events for cancer research such as Pink 2011, Air France signed an agreement with a new sheltered sector company Ribbon and Wheel of Energy. based in the Paris region: FASTROAD transports equipment and materials between maintenance shops and hangars at Roissy-CDG using shuttles. The Group takes part in discussions on projects set to shape the areas surrounding its hubs over the coming 20 years, such as the consultation processes on the Grand Paris and the Grand Roissy. Effective governance for the Grand Roissy area is essential and Air France would like to be involved in it. Furthermore, Air France is working alongside other organizations (Hubstart, Aerotropolis Europe) to promote Roissy-CDG airport’s international proﬁle and its economic attractiveness. KLM is working with Schiphol Airport and Amsterdam City to strenghten the international competitiveness of the region. ONGOING DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Air France and KLM take a proactive approach to engaging with local stakeholders such as residents, elected ofﬁcials, associations and regulatory authorities. Valuable exchanges are key to achieving sustainable growth and successful cooperation in areas such as noise and quality of life. In 2011, the European Commission sent a delegation to consult KLM on CSR and innovation. Additionally, KLM is committed to ongoing dialogue with local residents and their representatives through Alders Table meetings and through its involvement in the Schiphol Regional Review Board (CROS). Air France is a founder member of the “Pays de Roissy-CDG” association. Through its membership, the airline strengthens its local presence and works in cooperation with local stakeholders. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 63 Contributing to local development Involvement IN STRUCTURAL INITIATIVES AT THE HUB Local economic development Environment Jobs and training Stakeholders dialogue Boussole: Business travel plan to contribute to the reduction of emissions Alders table: Advisory platform for discussion with government, local caused by employee commuting. representatives and residents on the development of Schiphol. Involvement: Agreement on an Inter-Business Travel Plan at CDGairport, Involvement: KLM participation in discussion and dialogue with local with 5 other local companies. stakeholders. CCE and CCAR: Advisory committees on environment, policies Green Deal: Dutch government support for sustainability initiatives on noise reduction measures and soundprooﬁng homes. led by citizens, companies and government agencies. Involvement: Air France is a member of committees at 10 major Involvement: Signature of 2 KLM Green Deals concerning Biofuels French airports. and a Waste to Energy project. Hubstart and Aerotropolis Europe association: Initiatives to promote Landscape Noord-Holland (LNH): Independent nature conservation the area at an international level. organization in the Noord-Holland province, close to Schiphol. Involvement: Active involvement in these two bodies. Involvement: 2.5-year partnership which includes ﬁnance for projects to protect the Ilperveld peat bog, a vulnerable wildlife reserve. Pays de Roissy CDG Association: Promotion of social and economic development in the Roissy area. ROC Education Programmes: Local education programme Involvement: Air France is a founder member of the association in Amsterdam. More than 320 members take part in 6 working groups coordinated by Involvement: Partnership being extended to the Leiden region. two Air France employees. 70 people were trained in mechanics and metalwork at KLM E&M. Involvement in a Grand Roissy governance body. Schiphol Regional Review Board (CROS): The board focuses on 2nd Chance Foundation: Scheme to help disadvantaged people access noise reduction measures for residents living near to Schiphol airport. the world of work, through the support of volunteer mentors. Involvement: KLM participation in various working groups. Involvement: Roissy site coordinated by an Air France subsidiary, SODESI. Samenwerkingsagenda Amsterdam/KLM/Schiphol: Skills development promotion: Programmes to provide information Cooperation between the 3 parties to strengthen international and training on careers in aviation competitiveness of a sustainable Amsterdam region. Involvement: Air France is a founder member of 4 associations: Involvement: A vision and joint projects for future development, Airemploi provides information about jobs and training in aviation. such as electric taxis between Schiphol and Amsterdam. JEREMY promotes the integration of young local people who do not have any formal qualiﬁcations. AFMAé trains apprentices for careers in aviation at its training centre. Engineers for Schools is a programme that makes 8 Air France executives available to the national education authorities, 4 based in the Paris region. 64 Contributing TO DEVELOPMENT AT OUR DESTINATIONS SUPPORTING ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Air France-KLM provides assistance to development projects in various ways: The Group’s programmes and long-term humanitarian partnerships The Group contributes to the economic and social development through its Air France works to help disadvantaged children through its Corporate ﬂight services to 230 destinations in 113 countries. Flying to these destinaFoundation, which was involved in 116 projects in 2011. The airline has tions and the corresponding fees paid to local governments contribute to a 30-year partnership with the NGO Acting for Life, which promotes child local economies on a structural base. protection, economic development and sustainable tourism. Furthermore, the range of expertise and services the Group requires at its Air France also passes on information to passengers about the damage destinations creates a large number of jobs, both direct and indirect. As an caused by child sex tourism by ﬁnancing ECPAT International’s prevention example, Servair, Air France’s subsidiary, has a presence in over 50 airports, campaign and distributing literature onboard. owns 46 subsidiaries around the world. At all of these places, the company The KLM AirCares programme supports a different NGO every quarter, in promotes local jobs and has developed other activities such as catering for terms of ﬁnancial, logistical and organizational assistance and contributes hospitals and businesses. to achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 4 NGOs receive regular The Group also participates in the transfer of skills in the countries it serves, support as part of KLM AirCares: Close the Gap, Doctor to Doctor, Aviation through the AÏDA Programme (Assistance, Investment, Development in Africa), Without Borders, Wings of Support. which offers African Ground Service companies the opportunity to professionalProviding logistical support ise and expand their skills in IT and equipment and airport facilities maintenance In 2011, 580 Air France tickets were donated to 36 NGOs, principally inat a training centre (IAMA) in Bamako and at locations in 13 other countries. volved in providing medical assistance. 30 other organizations approved KLM has begun a pilot project with the NGO ShareBusiness. KLM has posted 3 by Air France beneﬁt from discounted rates for transporting personnel and of its employees to locations in Africa and India, so that they can share their skills equipment. Logistical support at KLM is included in the AirCares programme. with local entrepreneurs, whilst at the same time improving their own knowledge. Involving employees and customers Tourism also has a signiﬁcant impact on the living standards of local comAlongside skills sponsorship developed with various partners, Air France and munities. This is why KLM supports the Chair of Sustainable Tourism at KLM employees throughout the world take part in social, humanitarian and Wageningen University. nature conservation projects. KLM staff can use the “Will you be helping?” site on the company’s intranet to inform, mobilize and collect donations from PARTNERSHIP IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS their colleagues. Customers, who are Flying Blue members, are invited to donate their frequent ﬂyer miles to NGOs selected by Air France and KLM The Group has a long track record of contributing to development projects AirCares: in 2011, 601 million miles were donated. worldwide from supporting NGOs to own employees initiatives. KLM determines the impact of each AirCares project on the beneﬁciaries at the start 3,000 donors and evaluates the impact at the end of the project. In 2011, total contributions represented the equivalent of 13.2 million euros. More than 3,000 donors and 80 KLM and Martinair employees are involved with the Wings of Support Foundation, which runs more than 600 projects in over 20 countries through fundraising, distribution of goods, toys and clothes. CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 65 Contributing to local development Initiatives AROUND THE WORLD AIR FRANCE FOUNDATION PROJECT: Meet the needs of the growing school age population of the Henri Dumont school and improve conditions in educational institutions. IMPACT: Finance provided for a sports ﬁeld in 2000, an extension to the school in 2003, 4 classrooms and a multi-sports ground built in 2011. In 2011, the Group contributed to numerous social and environmental projects. Below, some examples: Employee Financial Cargo involvement support capacity Air Donating tickets equipment Haiti FRENCH RED CROSS PROJECT: Assisting NGO travel through award tickets (Flying Blue) Peru and through tickets donated by Air France during natural disasters. IMPACT: Rapid French Red Cross deployment and mission implementation in Haiti. 107 million Flying Blue miles were offered in 2011 to the Red Cross Bolivia for all of its missions. ACTING FOR LIFE PROJECT: Improve agricultural production in the Chaco Chuquisaquenio MY LITTLE UNIVERS region. Project implemented by the Foundation Nor Sud PROJECT: Refurbishment of a child care facility in Lima IMPACT: Involving local authorities in purchasing agricultural produce for IMPACT: Finance provided for most of the renovation work providing a safe school canteens. Around thirty farmers’ organizations involved in measures environment for 80 children and 3 child care facility nurses. to boost incomes by carrying out the initial stages of food processing. “Education is a key element to achieving the GROUP'S TOTAL DISTRIBUTION OF GROUP'S CONTRIBUTIONS Millennium Development CONTRIBUTION BY PROJECT CATEGORY Goals. That's why the TO DEVELOPMENT 34% Air France Foundation PROJECTS supports for 20 years, 13.2 initiatives to help sick, SPORT, ART & CULTURE, handicaped children or MISCELLEANEOUS people in great poverty around the world. In 2011, million euros 50% HUMANTARIAN & the Foundation funded EDUCATION 116 projects with a total in 2011 budget of €2.4 million.” CÉCILE VIC, General delegate, 16% ENVIRONMENT Air France Foundation 66 AVIATION SANS FRONTIÈRES HAMOGELOTOUPAIDOU PROJECT: To introduce young people with disabilities PROJECT: Mobilizing the local delegation to provide to aviation, discovery days and ﬁrst ﬂights support for Greece’s largest children’s charity IMPACT: In 2011, 1,564 young people with disabilities took IMPACT: Collecting toys, fundraising, providing transport part in the Smiling Wings programme. assistance to sick children and their families. AFLATOUN PROJECT: Provide social education to young people aged between 3 and 18 through the Aﬂatoun network. IMPACT: Training 30 regional “masters” in Asia, who have in turn trained 250 local educators, followed by 10,000 teachers. This programme has reached 330,000 children in 15 countries. France Greece Asia CLOSE THE GAP PROJECT: Providing reconditioned IT equipment for social projects Cameroon IMPACT: 120,000 KLM computers donated, these will provide 300,000 school children with access to information Kenya and knowledge. Indonesia Madagascar WWF-NL PROJECT: Partnership between WWF-NL and companies to improve the livelihoods in the Coral Triangle, the nursery of the global oceans. With a growing population and persistent GOODPLANET AND WWF poverty across Southeast Asia, coral reefs are being overPROJECT: Project to combat deforestation and aid development exploited through increased ﬁshing pressure. IMPACT: 350,000 hectares protected and secured, 5,000 households IMPACT: Actions with local people to make ﬁshing more given up slash and burn cultivation in favor of alternative farming methods. sustainable and to reduce by-catch. DISTRIBUTION BY TYPE OF CONTRIBUTION GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECTS 15% TICKETS 1% CARGO 33% EUROPE 13% AMERICAS CAPACITY (INCL THE NETHERLANDS & FRANCE 17%ASIA PACIFIC 84% MONEY 26% AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST 11% CARIBBEAN & INDIAN OCEAN CSR REPORT 2011 | SOCIETY 67 Annexes DIALOGUE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS GROUP’S MAIN ENGAGEMAIN ENGAGEMENT PATHWAYS OUTCOMES 2011 STAKEHOLDERS MENT TOPICS Shareholders Financial Quarterly presentations to analysts Report improvement as a result of questionnaires of non Investors information Dedicated ﬁnancial website ﬁnancial rating agencies such as VIGEO, SAM, EIRIS, CDP. CSR performance Information about risk and linking CSR into the overall Financial partners Shareholder Club strategy is taken into account. Rating agencies Advisory Committee for individual shareholders Other outcomes: see chapter “Our approach to CSR ” Yearly General Shareholders’ Meeting: presentation of ﬁnancial and CSR performance Annual publications Passengers Service quality Customer Satisfaction surveys 565,000 customer satisfaction surveys Cargo customers Innovation Materiality test Yearly survey among Flying Blue members Aircraft maintenance Security Discussion panels and internet chats (InTouch) fb@home : 12,000 participants customers and Flight safety Dialogue with European Association of people Website www.sustainablejourney.nl set up for overview Awareness-raising with disabilities of KLM Dialogue results held on the 26th of October 2011 on CSR topics Onboard communication channels Other outcomes: see chapters “Minimizing our “Green” Dedicated business communities e.g. Club Africa, environmental footprint” and “Building a sustainable maintenance Club China relationship with our customers” Environmental footprint Employees Working conditions Staff surveys KLM’s works council agreed with policy on psychosocial Trade unions Training and Materiality test risks at the workplace and on policy handling asbestos in mobility case of building renovation. Professional associations Intranet and internal newsletters and bodies Health and Third agreement on gender equality, and 8th 3 year Dialogue with social partners agreement to promote employment of disabled people occupational safety Negotiation and collective labour agreement (Air France) Non-discrimination Innovation programs for Air France staff: PIQ and QIS KLM survey on safety culture among employees received Diversity a 33% response. Regular meetings with governments on HR topics, e.g Social dialogue discrimination, occupation safety Ipsos survey an IPM tool (Internal Perception Monitoring) to CSR awarenessmeasure levels of employee satisfaction within the Group Inter-company working groups (ORSE, ANVIE, IMS etc) at raising Air France with disability groups and the French National LGBT network resulted in more dialogue on diversity, Federation of Merchant Aviation (Air France) a.o through CSR Café (KLM) Partnerships with universities Business Travel Plan (Air France) Work council Committees focused on working conditions Other outcomes: see chapter “Promoting a responsible and environment and HR policies human resources policy” International, European Climate change/ Dialogue and joint actions with national air transport More knowledge sharing with environmental and transport and national authorities CO2 reduction authorities ministries on ETS guidelines, and Air France-KLM climate Certiﬁcation authorities Environmental Working group on New European Regulations on policies in France and The Netherlands management passengers rights Re-installation of climate change task force within AEA, Passenger rights Draft proposals at AEA and IATA in particular for a global IATA towards global climate regulations Better knowledge sectoral approach to climate change Renewal of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation (Air France) of air transport Implementation of the recommendation of the Authority of issues Financial Market (Grenelle2) Other outcomes: see chapters “Our approach to CSR” and “Minimizing our environmental footprint” Suppliers Environmental Applying the Sustainability Charter and environmental Dialogue with suppliers: upcycling of old carpets of aircrafts and social clauses for tenders (KLM); recycling of meal boxes (Air France) performances Including more suppliers in REACH (Registration Evaluation CSR pilot audits carried out among suppliers in high risk CSR integration in and Authorization for Chemicals) monitoring countries the supply chain Dialogue with suppliers Other outcomes: see chapter “Our approach to CSR” Eco-design Local economic and social development 68 GROUP’S MAIN ENGAGEMAIN ENGAGEMENT PATHWAYS OUTCOMES 2011 STAKEHOLDERS MENT TOPICS Air transport and industry Safety and SkyTeam CSR working group Positive advise of Sustainability Board for supply of Used bodies security Involvement of Air France-KLM in SESAR JU Cooking Oil for series ﬂights Amsterdam-Paris (KLM) Airports Airport Air France partner of SWAFEA and FCA Working groups with FNAM and GIFAS on environmental Air Navigation Service accessibility (Future alternative fuels) impacts and ecodesign. Provider Ground handling Working groups with FNAM and GIFAS Other outcomes: see chapters “Our approach to CSR” Professional associations services on environmental impacts and “Minimizing our environmental footprint” New aircraft Involvement of Air France in CORAC Sustainable (Committee for civil aviation research) biofuels for Involvement of Air France-KLM in Sustainable Aviation aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG) Climate change Support to the Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels Single European (membership through SAFUg) Sky Sustainability Board of SkyNRG (JV of KLM, NSG and Spring Associates) with WWF-NL, Solidaridad, Copernicus Institute of University of Utrecht Dialogue with manufacturers and motorists to improve air quality and noise mitigation in line with ACARE Local communities Noise Training and skills-sharing with local associations Climate Event Amstelveen resulted in increased knowledge Residents associations Air quality Roissy area development: two Air France staff dedicated to on CSR among SME (KLM) Local economic players Local dialogue Pays de Roissy-CDG Air France contribution to the Grand Paris consultation International promotion Roissy Area associations process Social and economic (Aerotropolis, Hubstart, CAREX, ASTEch) (Air France) Participation to Grand Roissy Assembly and working development KLM involvement in Alders Table and CROS (Schiphol groups on Orly area Better knowledge Review Board) 2 issues of “Le Courrier” Air France of air transport Member of the CCE and CCAR of the 10 biggest French Contribution to FNAM White Paper on French Air Transport issues airports (Air France) Other outcomes: see chapters “Minimizing our Cooperation in NS Hispeed (KLM) environmental footprint” and “Contributing to local Working visits and tours at Air France and KLM facilities development” AIDA programme and IAMA institute in Africa (Air France) Cooperation (“Samenwerkingsagenda”) Amsterdam, KLM and Schiphol on sustainability Scientiﬁc community Climate change IAGOS Program (Air France) Interim results given by University of Amsterdam to KLM Universities Operational Research Technical University Delft (KLM) and KLM Works Council as part of 5-year study in work procedures related health issues Research experts Support of studies from University Amsterdam Technological Advise on steps to take to minimize the Biodiversity Membership in IDUT and supporting the chair Sustainable footprint at KLM performance Tourism of Wageningen University First results on Madagascar project (Air France ) Dialogue sessions with students of National Chengchi University Taiwan on sustainable development Increased knowledge of MBA students on sustainability in corporate business Air France reforestation project in partnership with GoodPlanet and WWF in Madagascar, to improve Other outcomes: see chapter “Minimizing our knowledge of forest carbon environmental footprint” Research on “KLM’s Impacts and Dependencies on Biodiversity” Environmental NGOs Climate change KLM Partnership with WWF-NL Renewal of partnership WWF-NL and KLM for another Fight against Air France funds program to combat deforestation run by four years deforestation GoodPlanet and WWF in Madagascar First results on Madagascar project (Air France) Preserve KLM Participation in IUCN (International Union for Other outcomes: see chapter “Minimizing our Biodiversity Conservation of Nature) environmental footprint” Humanitarian and Humanitarian Dialogue and cooperation with humanitarian projects: Dialogue with NGO’s resulted in revising KLM strategy with development NGOs and development Air France Foundation, Acting for Life, KLM AirCares social partners programs Employee engagement: Friends of the Air France 116 projects supported by Air France Foundation Foundation, Wings of Support, Aviation without borders New ECPAT awareness campaign on sex tourism onboard (France and NL)... Air France aircraft Pilot “Get it Done” in order to improve social program by Other outcomes: see chapter “Contributing to local means of social media (KLM) development” CSR REPORT 2011 | ANNEXES 69 Annexes GROUP’S MAIN SUBSIDIARIES The table presents the Air France-KLM structure and main subsidiaries over which the Group has at least 50% control, whose acquisition dates back at least one full year and which have a signiﬁcant number of employees. AIR FRANCE BRIT AIR Passenger transport, CITY JET ACNA Maintenance, Cargo VLM AIRLINES BRUNO PEGORIER REGIONAL OAT GROUPE SERVAIR SERVAIR SA TRANSAVIA CPA CRMA BASE HANDLING BLUELINK PASSERELLE SODEXI JET CHEF AERO MAINTENANCE GROUP AIR FRANCE KLM KLM KLM CITYHOPPER B.V. HOLDING Passenger transport, TRANSAVIA AIRLINES C.V. Maintenance, Cargo KLM CATERING SERVICES SCHIPHOL B.V. CYGNIFI C B.V. COBALT GROUND SOLUTIONS LTD. KLM EQUIPMENT SERVICES B.V. KLM HEALTH SERVICES B.V. KLM UK ENGINEERING LTD. MARTINAIR HOLLAND N.V. EPCOR B.V. INTERNATIONAL AVIATION SERVICES LTD. KLM LUCHTVAART SCHOOL B.V. Passenger Maintenance Cargo Ground Catering Aircraft Call center Medical Assistance to Training transport (logistic services cleaning services passengers or freight having limited transport) mobility AIR FRANCE-KLM’S FLEET Operational aircraft as of December 31, 2011: 586 Average ﬂeet age: 9.7 years AIR FRANCE GROUP KLM GROUP AVERAGE AGE TYPES OF NUMBER OF AVERAGE AGE TYPES OF NUMBER OF (years) AIRCRAFT AIRCRAFT (years) AIRCRAFT AIRCRAFT A318, A319 737-300/-400 SHORT AND MEDIUM-HAUL 9.6 145 5.7 46 A320, A321 /-700 /-800 / -900 A380, A330-200 A330-200 LONG-HAUL 9.1 A340-300 104 11.9 777-200/-300 63 777-200/-300 MD11, 747-400 747-400ERF CARGO 6.3 5 7.5 747-400ERF 4 777F REGIONAL FLEET FOKKER F70, F100 AF: BRIT AIR, RÉGIONAL, CITYJET, VLM 10.5 EMBRAER, 125 11.2 48 EMB190 KLM: CITYHOPPER BOMBARDIER OTHER FLEET 737-700/-800 AF: TRANSAVIA FRANCE 6.3 737-800 8 10 747-400BCF 38 KLM: TRANSAVIA.COM, MARTINAIR MD11-F TOTAL 9.6 YEARS 387 9.8 YEARS 199 70 GROUP’S ACTIVITY BY NETWORK Passenger business SCHEDULED DESTINATIONS CAPACITY IN ASK 1 TRAFFIC IN RPK 2 LOAD FACTOR No. OF PASSENGERS PASSENGER REVENUES KEY FIGURES BY NETWORK (Summer 2011) (in million) (in million) (in %) ((in thousands) (in € million) AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 (12 MONTHS) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Europe 124 123 57,245 53,605 42,323 38,846 73.9 72.5 51,829 47,796 6,394 6,023 North America 24 23 59,070 55,319 50,912 47,449 86.2 85.8 7,255 6,810 3,277 3,088 Latin America 11 11 25,192 22,086 21,961 19,434 87.2 88.0 2,353 2,136 1,420 1,246 Asia-Paciﬁc 25 22 58,790 54,976 50,168 47,524 85.3 86.4 5,855 5,546 3,160 2,974 Africa-Middle East 54 50 35,963 35,653 28,264 28,164 78.6 79.0 5,224 5,337 2,423 2,548 Caribbean-Indian Ocean 16 15 28,637 26,894 23,541 21,697 82.2 80.7 3,265 3,090 1,324 1,211 TOTAL 254 244 264,897 248,532 217,170 203,114 82.0 81.7 75,781 70,715 17,998 17,090 1. ASK: available seat-kilometer. 2. RPK: revenue passenger-kilometer. For further information, see Registration Document 2011. Cargo business CAPACITY IN ATK 1 TRAFFIC IN RTK 2 LOAD FACTOR No. OF TONS CARGO REVENUES KEY FIGURES BY NETWORK (in million) (in million) (in %) (in thousands) (in € million) AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 (12 MONTHS) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Europe 553 493 80 72 14.5 14.6 55 54 56 54 Americas 6,592 6,394 4,494 4,447 68.2 69.8 557 552 1,191 1,055 Asia-Paciﬁc 5,988 5,818 4,558 4,661 76.1 80.1 522 534 975 1,036 Africa-Middle East 2,779 2,852 1,719 1,801 61.9 63.1 276 294 603 588 Caribbean-Indian Ocean 1,100 1,076 444 458 41.1 40.4 57 61 152 171 TOTAL 17,013 16,613 11,294 11,439 66.4 68.9 1,467 1,495 2,977 2,904 1. ATK: available ton-kilometer. 2. RTK: revenue ton-kilometer. For further information, see Registration Document 2011. ONBOARD WEIGHT REDUCTION ON A LONG-HAUL PLANE (SOME EXAMPLES) One kilo of weight saved on every aircraft results in a saving of 75 metric tons of CO2 per year. Trays and cups Boards Seats Trolleys Carpet Digitalising documentation CSR REPORT 2011 | ANNEXES 71 Annexes NOTE ON THE METHODOLOGY FOR THE REPORTING OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS In 2005-06, under the aegis of the Air France-KLM Group’s Disclosure Commitand the consumption of electricity and natural gas in certain buildings at the water taken on board. tee, and validated by the college of Statutory Auditors, the Group’s environmental administrative head ofﬁce and in a number of subsidiaries. This year’s decline is explained by savings made at Servair and the ending of performance indicators were deﬁned in order to comply with the requirements construction work on maintenance buildings. of the French New Economic Regulations law (Les Nouvelles Regulations Flight operations Économiques, NRE, May 15, 2001) and the European Regulation (EC 809/2004). Consumption of other energies As of the 2007-08 ﬁnancial year, the Group chose to have a selection of enviCO2 emissions Prior to 2010, only the energy consumption for heating and cooling was pubronmental indicators (indicated by the symbols √ and √√) veriﬁed by one of the The increase in the Group’s CO2 emissions between 2010 and 2011 is prolished for the Air France Group and prior to 2011 for the KLM Group. Statutory Auditors, KPMG Audit, with the highest level of assurance, reasonable portional to the increase in jet fuel consumption due to the pick-up in activity. To be as exhaustive as possible, a new indicator was reported in 2010, including assurance , for fuel consumption and the related CO2 emissions for air operaNote that, for the KLM Group, the increased emissions as of 2010 are linked the different sources of energy consumed: tions (√√) and a limited level of assurance1 for the other veriﬁed indicators (√). to the inclusion of the Transavia and Martinair subsidiaries. natural gas for heating buildings, aircraft painting workshops in Maintenance Note that there are differences between the scope of the CO2 emissions reported and cooking (the catering activity in particular). The conversion factor SCOPE COVERED AND SCOPE N-1 and those of the European Emissions Trading Scheme for greenhouse gas of the quantity of gas used as energy is calculated by taking into account emission quotas (EU-ETS), which do not enable a comparison. the quality of gas speciﬁc to France and the Netherlands; For the ﬂight operations, the environmental consolidation scope covers: superheated and iced water for climate comfort. For Air France, superheated all the Air France commercial ﬂights operated by Air France and its subsidiarSO2 emissions and iced water is supplied by ADP (Aéroports de Paris) at the Orly and Roissy ies Brit Air, Régional and CityJet. The ﬂights operated by Transavia France The calculation of the SO2 emissions from ﬂight operations is based on the sites. The KLM facilities do not consume this type of energy; are also included in 2011. The subsidiaries are excluded for the total HC average sulphur content of the fuel loaded, respectively, on the Amsterdam Jet fuel A1 for testing engines; and NOx emissions; and Paris platforms which is applied, respectively, to all fuel used during the Domestic Fuel Oil (DFO) for power generators and ground support equipment; all the KLM commercial ﬂights operated by KLM and its subsidiary KLM year by KLM, Air France and the Air France subsidiaries. petrol and diesel fuel for vehicles and ground support equipment. The portion Cityhopper (KLC). The ﬂights operated by KLM’s Transavia and Martinair The rise in SO2 emissions from ﬂight operations for the Group between 2010 and relating to coaches is no longer included in the Air France Group reporting subsidiaries were included as part of the KLM Group as of 2010. They are 2011 is mainly due to the higher average sulphur content in the fuel, together scope since this activity is outsourced. not included in the indicators for low altitude emissions of HC, NOx and SO2. with the recovery in activity. The decline between 2010 and 2011 for the Air France Group is partly explained For the KLM Group, the reduction is due to the lower average sulphur content by weather variations and partly by gas consumption being overestimated at For the ground operations, the consolidation scope for the environmental rein the fuel used. one Air France site in 2010. porting is unchanged on that of last year and covers 100% of the sites in France and the Netherlands. The international outstations are not taken into account. NOx and HC emissions Emissions from ground operations (CO2, SO2 and NOx) Air France consolidated subsidiaries are: Brit Air, Régional, CRMA, Sodexi and Total Emissions In 2011, CO2, SO2 and NOx emissions and their trends are linked to the energy Servair and its subsidiaries (only for the activities in France). VLM, BlueLink, Air France consumption listed above. Transavia France and CityJet are not included in the reporting scope. For Air France, a speciﬁc tool was deployed in 2009 to calculate the total For Air France, the sharp rise in SO2 emissions is due to more comprehensive Furthermore, for Air France, the indicators in the domestic outstations are not emissions of NOx and HC more precisely. accounting of the SO2 emissions of some sites and a rise in the fuel consumption reported when there is no detail available on the ﬁxed charges invoiced by Only emissions for Air France are reported, the subsidiaries not being included of some occasional activities. airports. The contribution of the domestic outstations affected by this issue is, in the calculation module. NOx emissions related to engine testing are calculated based on a methodology however, marginal compared with the reported data. The calculation methodology is based on the by Boeing2 fuel ﬂow 2 methodology. similar to the one used for ﬂight operations which reﬂects the actual testing Concerning the Air France Group, the reporting scope is based on worldwide For more than 75% of the ﬂights, recorded data has been used to calculate conditions. premises representing around 88% of the Group. emissions speciﬁc to each ﬂight. The emissions for other ﬂights were estimated KLM consolidated subsidiaries are KLC (KLM CityHopper), KES (KLM Equipfrom the calculated average ﬂight emissions. For these ﬂights, a less precise VOC Emissions ment Services), KCS (KLM Catering Services) and KHS (KLM Health Services), estimation method than in 2009 was used. However, the impact on the published VOC emissions are calculated based on the direct emissions of solvents conand Transavia NL and Martinair (for a portion of the indicators). data is not signiﬁcant. tained in the products used; VOCs contained in evacuated waste are excluded. In 2011, three buildings belonging to Transavia and Martinair were included in KLM For Air France, the reporting scope was extended, as of 2010, to include thirdthe ground operations reporting scope. Only the emissions relating to KLM and KLM Cityhopper are reported, the other party orders as well as paint kits. For the Air France Group, the decline between subsidiaries not being included in the calculation for the indicators. 2010 and 2011 is mainly due to an increase in the quantity of industrial waste The 2011 reporting period for the Group’s environmental data has been Two distinct methodologies are applied to calculate overall NOx and HC emiscontaining VOCs (product withdrawals). changed and is now based on a rolling twelve months from October 1, 2010 sions depending on the aircraft type: the fuel ﬂow methodology and the P3T3 until September 30, of the 2011 reporting year. This results from the change methodology developed by General Electric. HC Emissions in the reporting period for the ﬁnancial statements from the IATA year (April 1 Low altitude emissions Hydrocarbon (HC) emissions include the emissions from vehicles and ground to March 31) to the calendar year. The methodology used for the calculation of low altitude emissions is common support equipment, engine testing and aircraft fuelling. The national ﬁgures for greenhouse gas emissions will be published at a later to Air France and KLM. It is based on the LTO (Landing-Takeoff) cycle and on stage and remain based on the calendar year. engine data communicated by the ICAO3. The taxiing time taken into account Hazardous industrial waste is the actual taxiing time, which is more precise than standard values recomThe quantity of hazardous waste which has not been communicated by service REPORTING TOOLS mended by the ICAO methodology. Note, however, that the actual taxiing time providers at the end of the reporting campaign is not taken into account. This not being available for Transavia France, the standard ICAO values have been is, however, estimated to be marginal. The environmental indicators are assembled at local level via two reporting used for this subsidiary. The nature of recovered hazardous waste is determined based on European tools: Osyris (Enablon software) for Air France and CaeSaR for KLM, which are regulation. available, respectively, at each Air France and KLM subsidiary. In-ﬂight fuel jettison For Air France, the rate of hazardous waste recovered in 2009 has been updated The reliability of the reporting process is supported by deﬁnitions of each inAn exceptional operation (less than one ﬂight in 10,000 in 2010) involving the to include a modiﬁcation concerning a subsidiary. dicator and user guides for contributors available in both French and English. jettisoning of a quantity of fuel in ﬂight to avoid an overloaded plane on landing For KLM, the percentage mentioned corresponds to hazardous waste that has Consistency tests have also been implemented. whenever a ﬂight is aborted. Each operation is effected in close coordination been recycled with a view to reuse. The signiﬁcant increase in The consolidation of the Air France-KLM Group’s environmental data is carried with air trafﬁc control under strict conditions governing geographical locathe quantity of hazardous waste between 2010 and 2011 is due to the evacuout by the Air France Sustainable Development department. tion (avoiding urban zones) and altitude (generally at or above 2,000 meters). ation, as hazardous waste, of water inﬁltrating into one of the KLM Cityhopper subsidiary’s buildings in 2011. DETAILS AND METHODOLOGY, COMMENTS Total noise energy ON VARIATIONS This indicator was established by the Air France-KLM Group to manage the Efﬂuents evolution in the noise footprint of its activity. The total noise energy indicator Both Air France and KLM entities are required to comply with the French and At Air France-KLM Group level, the regulatory requirements and the reporting is calculated according to the methodology deﬁned by the DGAC4. It applies Dutch legislation on efﬂuents. Each relevant site has regulatory limits on efand consolidation principles are outlined in a document entitled the Instruction to all ﬂights with the AF or KLM Commercial Code operated, franchised and ﬂuents and the frequency of measurement. Memo Environment, which is updated annually. The assembly of data, calculachartered, code share excepted. The reported data reﬂects the number of times a regulatory threshold is extion methodologies and operational consolidation are deﬁned in procedures For this year, the noise energy calculation for the KLM Group excludes the ceeded relative to the number of measurements for each type of efﬂuent. which are speciﬁc to Air France and KLM, but which are harmonized, insofar B747-400 ER aircraft operated by Martinair. For 2011, the results, expressed in terms of the number of times regulatory as local regulations permit. The trends in noise energy and trafﬁc are determined by comparing total noise limits are exceeded as a proportion of measurements were, respectively: Within the framework of an approach based on continuous improvement, the energy calculated for the calendar year with that of 2000. for Air France, 0/4 for Nitrogen compounds, 0/97 for Phosphorus compounds methodologies used for certain performance indicators have been and 3/648 for metals; more precisely deﬁned. When these changes have a signiﬁcant impact on Ground operations for KLM, 0/52 for Nitrogen compounds, 0/52 for Phosphorus compounds the data, comparison with the ﬁgures for previous years is not meaningful. and 4/280 for metals. When the data is not available, the ﬁgure reported for the year is estimated Water consumption Note that the metals reported are Cr, Cd, Ni, Cu, Pb, Sn and Zn. based on the value reported for the previous year. In 2011, this estimation The consumption of water is taken into account for all ground activities. Water method was used for the Air France Group for the amount of waste produced used on board ﬂights is not included. Prior to 2010, KLM had included the 1. The review work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) speciﬁc to the veriﬁcation of extra-ﬁnancial data. 2. Baughcum, S. L., et al. “Scheduled Civil Aircraft Emissions Inventories for 1992: Database Development and Analaysis, Appendix D: Boeing Method 2 Fuel Flow. Methodology Description”. Report NASA CR 4700, The Boeing Company, April 1996. 3. International Civil Aviation Organization. 4. French Civil Aviation Authority (Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile). 72 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Flight Operations AIR FRANCE-KLM GROUP AIR FRANCE GROUP 1 KLM GROUP 2 Unit 2009 2010 2011 11/10 2009 2010 2011 11/10 2009 2010 2011 11/10 CONSUMPTION Consumption of raw materials: fuel √ √ ktons 8,021 8,534 8,950 4.9% 5,036 4,860 5,047 3.8% 2,985 3,674 3,903 6.2% EMISSIONS Greenhouse gas CO2 √ √ ktons 25,269 26,879 28,193 4.9% 15,865 15,308 15,899 3.9% 9,404 11,571 12,294 6.2% emissions NOx √ ktons 130.8 130.5 140.4 7.6% 82.3 82.0 89.7 9.4% 48.5 48.5 50.7 4.5% Emissions of substances contributing NOx low altitude (< 3,000 ft) √ ktons 8.9 8.7 9.0 3.4% 6.2 6.1 6.2 1.6% 2.7 2.6 2.8 7.7% to acidiﬁcation and SO2 √ ktons 12.9 10.2 10.4 2.4% 7.7 6.6 7.2 9.9% 5.2 3.6 3.2 -11.3% eutrophication SO2 low altitude (<,3 000 ft) √ ktons 1.1 0.7 0.8 12.4% 0.7 0.5 0.6 15.2% 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.0% Occurences of fuel jettison √ number 51 39 29 -25.6% 33 27 23 -14.8% 18 12 6 -50.0% In-ﬂight fuel jettison Fuel jettisoned √ tons 1,979 1,671 1,152 -31.1% 1,381 1,180 945 -19.9% 595 491 207 -57.8% HC √ ktons 3.6 3.3 3.3 0.0% 2.6 2.4 2.3 -4.2% 1.0 0.9 1.0 11.1% Other emissions HC low altitude (< 3,000 ft) √ ktons 1.0 0.8 0.8 0.0% 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.0% 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.0% NOISE IMPACT Global noise energy indicator √ 1012 kJ 1.74 1.65 1.65 0.0% 1.18 1.10 1.11 0.9% 0.56 0.55 0.54 -1.8% √ Figures veriﬁed by KPMG for 2011 (limited level of assurance). √√ Figures veriﬁed by KPMG for 2011 (reasonable level of assurance). 1. Air France Group scope: all ﬂights under AF code operated by Air France, Brit Air, Régional and CityJet, and ﬂights operated by Transavia France from 2011. Subsidiaries are excluded for HC and NOx global emissions. 2. KLM Group scope: all ﬂights operated by KLM and KLM Cityhopper. Transavia and Martinair are excluded for HC and NOx emissions, but they are included for fuel consumption, CO2 and SO2 emissions (exception of low altitude emissions). Ground Operations AIR FRANCE-KLM GROUP AIR FRANCE GROUP 1 KLM GROUP 2 Unit 2009 2010 2011 11/10 2009 2010 2011 11/10 2009 2010 2011 11/10 CONSUMPTION Water consumption √ Thousands m3 979 951 886 -6.8% 742 749 694 -7.3% 2373 202 192 -5.0% Electricity consumption √ MWh 421,581 416,149 408,408 -1.9% 327,094 321,818 309,655 -3.8% 94,487 94,331 98,753 4.7% Other energies consumption4 √ MWh 327,150 470,552 543,749 NC 232,172 367,748 316,650 -13.9% 94,978 102,804 227,099 NC EMISSIONS Greenhouse gas CO2 √ tons 84,290 92,569 89,841 -2.9% 37,396 47,850 38,975 -18.5% 46,894 44,719 50,866 13.7% emissions Emissions of substances Emissions of volatile organic tons 127 167 129 -22.8% 85 132 90 -31.8% 42 35 39 11.4% contributing to compounds VOC √ photochemical pollution Emissions of HC tons 166 161 167 3.7% 112 106 108 1.9% 54 55 59 7.3% Emissions of substances NOx √ tons 917 879 810 -7.8% 639 605 541 -10.6% 278 274 269 -1.8% contributing to acidiﬁcation and eutrophication SO2 √ tons 18.7 13.2 19.6 48.5% 13.2 9.8 16.6 69.4% 5.5 3.3 3 -9.1% WASTE Quantity of non-hazardous tons 61,067 58,756 58,964 0.4% 42,664 42,309 42,155 -0.4% 18,403 1,447 16,809 2.2% industrial waste √ Quantity of hazardous industrial Waste production tons 5,961 5,914 7,000 18.4% 4,839 4,569 4,748 3.9% 1,122 1,345 2,252 67.4% waste √ % of hazardous industrial waste % 45%5 47% 45% -2 PTS 36%5 36% 28% -8 PTS 84% 84% 81% -3 PTS recovered √ EFFLUENTS Nitrogen compounds √ % 93% 100% 100% 0 PT 90% 100% 100% 0 PT 96% 100% 100% 0 PT Compliance rate of efﬂuents with regulatory Phosphorus compounds √ % 100% 100% 100% 0 PT 100% 100% 100% 0 PT 100% 100% 100% 0 PT limits Metals6 √ % 99% 100% 99% -1 PT 99% 100% 99.5% -0.5 PT 100% 100% 98.5% -1.5 PT √ Figures veriﬁed by KPMG for 2011 (limited level of assurance). NC: not comparable. 1. Air France and subsidiaries : Régional, Brit Air, Servair and its subsidiaries (France only), Sodexi and CRMA. CityJet, Blue Link, VLM and Transavia France are not included. 2. KLM and its subsidiaries : KLM CityHopper (KLC), KLM Equipment Services (KES), KLM Catering Services (KCS) and KLM Health Services (KHS). Transavia and Martinair are partially included. 3. Water consumption of KLM included onboard drinking water in previous years. This has now been excluded. 4. In 2009, were inculded energy consumptions for cooling and heating : natural gas, fuel oil, iced water and superheated water. From 2010, Air France Group reports also natural gas and fuel oil other than for heating and cooling, gasoline and diesel for vehicles and ground support equipments, and jet A1 for testing engines. From 2011, KLM group reports on diesel for vehicles and ground support equipment, and jet A1 for engine testing. 5. The data was updated as a result of adjustments made to a subsidiary. 6. Cr, Cd, Ni, Cu, Pb, Sn and Zn. CSR REPORT 2011 | ANNEXES 73 Annexes NOTE ON THE METHODOLOGY FOR THE REPORTING OF THE SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2005-06, under the aegis of the Disclosure Committee, and validated by the The notes below refer to the references in the tables on pages 75 and 76. days of sick leave or absence due to work-related accidents are taken into college of Statutory Auditors, the Air France-KLM Group’s social performance account in the rate of absenteeism for illness. indicators were deﬁned in order to comply with the requirements of the French Employees New Economic Regulations law (Les Nouvelles Regulations Economiques, NRE, Health and safety – work-related accidents May 15, 2001) and the European Regulation (EC 809/2004). Note 1: The number of people employed by the Group (expressed as headcount) In 2011, work to optimize these indicators was undertaken to align, as of this on both permanent (CDI) and ﬁxed-term contracts (CDD) on December 31 of There are signiﬁcant differences in reporting methods for work-related acyear, the NRE social reporting with the requirements of article 225 of the applicathe reference year. cidents between France and the Netherlands (see paragraph on absenteeism). tion decree for the Grenelle II legislation. This update to the social performance Note 2: On a comparable reporting scope, the headcount (CDD and CDI) for indicators was submitted to the statutory auditors, KPMG Audit, for review before ground staff amounted to 70,624 employees at December 31, 2011 (a 0.2% Air France the beginning of the 2011 NRE social reporting process. decline versus the 2010 reporting scope without taking into account the emNote 2: Air France’s deﬁnition of work-related accidents is in line with the Since the 2007-08 ﬁnancial year, the Group has chosen to have a number of ployees in the two new subsidiaries, Aero Maintenance Group and Jet Chef. deﬁnition under French law (at least one day of absence from work). Travelits principal social indicators veriﬁed by one of the Statutory Auditors, KPMG related accidents are not included in the indicator but are the subject of speciﬁc Audit. These indicators are shown by the symbol √ in the tables on pages 75 Recruitment on permanent contracts monitoring and action plans. and 76. They are the subject of veriﬁcation with a limited1 level of assurance. Within the framework of planning for the Grenelle II law, the preparatory work Note 3: The indicator concerns employees hired on permanent contracts (CDI). KLM subsidiaries was undertaken on the Employees by age and geographical region indicator, For Air France, the calculation of the number of employees recruited on permaNote 2: In 2010, there was a difference in the interpretation of the reporting the nature of the work carried out and its conclusions are presented in the nent contracts includes those initially recruited on ﬁxed-term contracts (CDD) of work-related accidents by one KLM subsidiary. This is why the 2011 and veriﬁcation report on page 77. transferring to permanent contracts (CDI) during the year. 2010 data is not comparable. For KLM, only employees recruited directly on permanent contracts are taken Note also a reduction in accidents due to the active accident prevention policy REPORTING SCOPE into account. pursued within KLM subsidiaries and particularly at KLM Catering Services. The Air France-KLM Group’s social reporting consolidation scope is based on Recruitment on ﬁxed-term contracts Note 3: The frequency and severity rates are calculated based on: the number of employees (expressed as headcount) on the payroll at the end of the calendar year. Note 4: This indicator was added to the reporting in 2010 which means that For Air France: The NRE reporting scope covers 96% of the average employees in the Air the information is not available for 2009. For ground staff, the actual paid hours worked. France-KLM Group at the end of the calendar year, expressed in full-time For ﬂight crews, the hours of commitment. equivalent. Departures The subsidiaries of Air France and KLM over which the Group has at least For KLM and KLM subsidiaries 50% control, whose acquisition dates back at least one full year and which Note 5: The reasons for departure are detailed in the Annexes of Air FranceFor all staff based on the theoretical hours worked. have at least 300 employees are included in this NRE social reporting scope. KLM’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011. In 2010, there was a difference in the interpretation of the reporting of workNote that the number of employees for Air France and KLM comprises their Note the signiﬁcant number of departures in 2011, i.e. 11,612 employees, related accidents by one KLM subsidiary. This is why the 2011 and 2010 data entire workforce including staff employed internationally. most of which were due to the non-renewal of ﬁxed-term contracts. The other is not comparable. For the 2011 ﬁnancial year, the Air France consolidated subsidiaries are: Aero reasons include departures within the framework of the voluntary departure Maintenance Group, BlueLink, Brit Air, CityJet, VLM, CRMA, Regional, Servair plan launched in 2010 (1,264) and departures due to retirement, resignation, Training Group (ACNA, Bruno Pegorier, CPA, Jet Chef, Orly Air Traiteur, Servair SA, decease and termination of contracts during the trial period. Passerelle and Base Handling), Sodexi and Transavia France, representing Air France and Air France subsidiaries 76% of the employees of the subsidiaries in the Air France Group. Percentage of women Organization of working time Note 4: The Number of training hours by employee indicators are calculated In 2011, this scope was extended to include two new subsidiaries: Aero Mainbased on all the training sessions, independently of whether or not their nature tenance Group (309 employees, acquired in the early 2011 for which the Note 6: These indicators enable the percentage of women to be evaluated requires them to be included in the 2483 Regulatory Declaration. data was available) and Jet Chef, a Servair Group subsidiary, with over 300 relative to the overall workforce and the proportion of part-time employees on The training data for the subsidiaries in the Air France Group are calculated employees in 2011. both permanent and ﬁxed-term contracts at December 31 of the reference year. without the Transavia France subsidiary. For the 2011 ﬁnancial year, the KLM consolidated subsidiaries are: Cygniﬁc, Cobalt Ground Solutions, KLM UK Engineering Limited, KLM Cityhopper (UK Employees by geographical zone at December 31 KLM and KLM subsidiaries and B.V.), Transavia, KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. and Martinair, Note 4: KLM does not currently have a centralized reporting system solely for the representing 93% of the employees in the subsidiaries of the KLM Group. Note 7: The few KLM employees in the Caribbean and Indian Ocean geocosts of training within KLM and its subsidiaries although this indicator is now In 2011, the reporting scope of the KLM subsidiaries remains unchanged. graphical zone are included in the number of employees in the North and reported. Note that the disclosure of this information is not required by Dutch law. The reference number of employees for calculating the coverage rate of the South American zone. NRE social reporting is the average number of employees in full time equivalent The Air France Group employees in the French Overseas Territories and DoNumber of disabled employees during 2011 obtained from the Management Control BFC tool. minions, i.e. 684 employees, are included in the Caribbean and Indian Ocean The reporting period for the Group’s social data is based on the calendar year geographical zone. Air France and Air France subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the social performance indicators of other French Note 5: For Air France, the number of disabled employees reported are those companies. Note that, since 2011, the ﬁnancial year has also been based on “Other social data” tables for whom a valid certiﬁcate, pursuant to French law (article L5212-2 of the the calendar year. French labour code), is available, whatever their ability to perform the tasks The indicators reported in the other social data tables are subject to different involved in their position. Note that the data for international employees is REPORTING TOOLS qualiﬁcation and legal reporting obligations in France and the Netherlands, reported based on local legislation.which means they are not comparable and need to be presented separately The number of disabled employees recruited corresponds to the number of The indicators are compiled and consolidated using the Osyris (Operating for Air France and KLM. The subsidiaries concerned in these tables are listed permanent and ﬁxed-term employment contracts signed during the year; an SYstem for ReportIng on Sustainability) reporting software at the disposal of in the Reporting scope section above. employee recruited on a ﬁxed-term contract who then transfers to a permanent contributors from Air France, KLM and their subsidiaries across the entire reportcontract during the year will be reported twice. ing scope. Precise deﬁnitions of each indicator and user guides for contributors Absenteeism Health and safety in the workplace Note that the rate of employment of disabled employees for 2011 was not to the Osyris tool are available in both French and English. yet known on the date the ﬁgures for the reporting of the NRE social indicaConsistency tests have also been incorporated within the tool. The data is A signiﬁcant proportion of the work-related accidents reported by Air France tors were produced within the framework of the Management Report and veriﬁed and approved locally at the level of each subsidiary by a local veriﬁer in 2011 were due to cases of barometric otitis and musculoskeletal disorders Registration Document. who is responsible for the HR statistical data. which are recognized as work-related accidents in France whereas they are This system is supplemented by a general reporting procedure which deﬁnes recorded as sick leave by KLM in accordance with Dutch law. KLM and KLM subsidiaries the process for compiling, calculating and consolidating the indicators, based Note 5: For KLM, an individual is considered to be disabled if unable to carry out on an instruction memorandum circulated by the Air France-KLM Group’s Air France his or her work or any other work at an equivalent salary level. This requires the Finance Division. Note 1: The absenteeism rates are calculated on the basis of a ratio of the days employer and the employee to look for another position with a salary as near as The consolidation of the Air France-KLM Group’s social data is carried out by of absence over the days theoretically worked (excluding leave). possible to the previous level and gives the employee the right to government Air France’s Sustainable Development department. beneﬁts to compensate for any difference. KLM and KLM subsidiaries As of 2011, the number of disabled employees in the KLM subsidiaries has DETAILS AND METHODOLOGY/COMMENTARY ON Note 1: Since 2010 the calculation of the data has been aligned with that of been calculated including the subsidiary Martinair. CHANGES IN THE INDICATORS the government body responsible for recording the national rate of absenteeism (Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek) and includes the monitoring procedures to Collective agreements signed “Consolidated NRE social data for the Air France-KLM Group” table protect the quality of recorded data. KLM This table presents the indicators relating to employees, recruitment, departures, In the Netherlands, there is no difference between the management of absence Note 6: It was decided, in agreement with the social partners, to defer negotiathe proportion of women employees and the percentage working part time. following a work-related accident or due to illness. Absences due to illness or tions until 2012 and therefore no collective agreements were signed in 2011. These indicators are consolidated at the level of the Air France-KLM Group. work-related accidents are handled in the same way. For this reason, all the 1. The review work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000), speciﬁc to the veriﬁcation of extra-ﬁnancial data veriﬁcation. 74 SOCIAL INDICATORS Consolidated social data AIR FRANCE-KLM AIR FRANCE GROUP * KLM GROUP ** for Air France-KLM Group GROUP Total Air France Group Of which Air France Total KLM Group Of which KLM NRE SOCIAL DATA 1 2009 2010 2011 11/10 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 HEADCOUNT AT 31/12 (PERMANENT CONTRACTS AND FIXED-TERM CONTRACTS) Scope of NRE social reporting √ 96% 96% 96% 0.0% 95% 95% 100% 100% 98% 98% 100% 100% Total staff √ 108,367 105,928 106,618 0.7% 70,722 71,028 58,485 58,065 35,206 35,590 28,383 29,424 Ground staff 2 73,015 70,747 71,277 0.7% 48,979 49,472 39,228 38,957 21,768 21,805 17,236 17,501 Cabin crew 26,121 26,144 26,380 0.9% 16,297 16,187 15,083 14,988 9,847 10,193 8,491 9,175 Flight deck crew 9,231 9,037 8,961 -0.8% 5,446 5,369 4,174 4,120 3,591 3,592 2,656 2,748 Staff under permanent contract 104,425 102,045 101,603 -0.4% 68,727 68,307 57,336 56,586 33,318 33,296 27,392 28,119 Recruitment under permanent contract at 31/12 √ 3 1,562 1,383 2,481 79.4% 1,010 1,409 497 773 373 1,072 213 1,007 Recruitment under ﬁxed-term contract at 31/12 √ 4 NA 3,084 6,621 115% 2,432 5,452 623 3,053 652 1,169 248 589 Departures at 31/12 5 7,913 8,816 11,612 32% 6,539 8,998 4,379 6,194 2,277 2,614 1,066 859 of which redundancies (incl. Economic) √ 1,177 662 995 50% 448 338 263 149 214 657 52 54 Percentage of women at 31/12 √ 6 42.6% 42.5% 42.8% 0.6% 43.0% 42.9% 44.6% 44.6% 41.6% 42.4% 42.7% 43.6% Percentage of part time employees at 31/12 √ 6 23.9% 24.4% 24.5% 0.5% 18.6% 18.4% 20.3% 20.5% 36.0% 36.7% 37.4% 38.3% BREAKDOWN OF STAFF BY AGE AT 31/12 29 year and less NA NA 10,052 NA 6,353 NA 4,696 NA 3,699 NA 2,445 Between 30 and 39 year included NA NA 33,065 NA 23,456 NA 19,478 NA 9,609 NA 7,827 Between 40 and 49 year included NA NA 37,101 NA 23,834 NA 19,507 NA 13,267 NA 11,263 50 year and more NA NA 26,400 NA 17,385 NA 14,384 NA 9,015 NA 7,889 BREAKDOWN OF STAFF BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA AT 31/12 Europe (except France and The Netherlands) 5,072 2,661 1,913 2,411 988 North & South America NA NA 2,255 NA 1,862 NA 1,549 NA 393 NA 392 Caribbean/Indian Ocean (including French overseas territories) 7 NA NA 1,118 NA 1,118 NA 878 NA 0 NA 0 Asia/Pasiﬁc NA NA 1,710 NA 776 NA 771 NA 934 NA 934 Africa/the Middle East NA NA 1,594 NA 1,118 NA 1,101 NA 476 NA 476 The Netherlands 31,533 178 26 31,355 26,613 Continental France NA NA 63,336 NA 63,315 NA 51,827 NA 21 NA 21 √ Indicators veriﬁed by KPMG for 2011 (moderate level of assurance). NA: Not available. * Air France Group: Air France and Air France subsidiaries. Air France subsidiaries: Aero Maintenance Group, Blue Link, Brit Air, City Jet, VLM, CRMA, Regional, Sodexi, Transavia France and Servair group : ACNA, Bruno Pegorier, Jet Chef, OAT, Servair SA, CPA, Passerelle, Base Handling. The scope was extended to two new subsidiaries in 2011: Aero Maintenance Group and Jet Chef (in the Servair group). ** KLM Group: KLM and KLM subsidiaries. KLM subsidiaries: Cygniﬁc, Cobalt Ground Solutions, KLM Cityhopper (UK and BV), Transavia, KLM Catering Services Schipol B.V., KLM UK Engineering Limited and Martinair. Breakdown of staff by geographical area Breakdown of staff departures by cause 59% CONTINENTAL FRANCE 30% THE NETHERLANDS 9% REDUNDANCIES 9% 40% END OF FIXED TERM 17% CONTRACT OR 5% EUROPE (EXCEPT FRANCE PROBATION TIME 1% AND THE NETHERLANDS) 1% 11% VOLUNTARY 1% AMERICAS DEPARTURE PLAN 2% 2% CARIBBEAN, INDIAN 9% 13% RESIGNATIONS 59% 11% 5% OCEAN (INCLUDING FRENCH 40% 1% OVERSEAS TERRITORIES) 9% RETIREMENT 1% AFRICA/THE MIDDLE EAST 1% DEATH 2% 13% 2% ASIA/PASIFIC 17% OTHER DEPARTURES (OF WHICH 51% 30% 11% EMPLOYEES WHO ARE NOT PRESENT AND UNPAID) CSR REPORT 2011 | ANNEXES 75 Annexes SOCIAL INDICATORS Other social data for the Air France Other data for KLM Group Group (according to local legislation) (according to local legislation) AIR FRANCE (100% OF THE STAFF HEADCOUNT, REGISTERED KLM ( 100% OF THE STAFF HEADCOUNT, REGISTERED AND PAYED AT THE END OF THE CALENDAR YEAR) * 2010 2011 11/10 AND PAYED AT THE END OF THE CALENDAR YEAR) * 2010 2011 11/10 ABSENTEEISM 1 ABSENTEEISM 1 Due to illness √ 3.90% 3.83% -2% Due to illness √ 6.44% 6.11% -5% Due to work accidents √ 0.59% 0.61% 3% Maternity leave √ 0.67% 0.63% -6% Maternity leave √ 1.52% 1.15% -24% HEALTH AND SAFETY HEALTH AND SAFETY Total workplace accidents √ 2 225 217 -4% Total workplace accidents √ 2 2,454 2,139 -13% Number of fatal workplace accidents 0 0 0% Number of fatal workplace accidents 2 2 0% Frequency rate for workplace accidents √ 3 4.90 4.54 -7% Frequency rate of workplace accidents √ 3 29.14 26.23 -10% Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 3 0.24 0.16 -33% Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 3 1.05 1.07 2% TRAINING TRAINING Total trainingcosts in K€ √ 62,667 69,422 11% Number of training hours by employee √ 4 31 32 3% Total training costs in € per full time equivalent √ 2,645 2,891 9% DISABLED STAFF DISABLED STAFF Total staff with disabilities √ 5 1,602 1,634 2% Total staff with disabilities √ 5 641 656 2% Total staff with disabilities recruited during year √ 30 30 0% COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS √ 3 0 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS √ 19 18 KLM SUBSIDIARIES 2010 2011 11/10 AIR FRANCE SUBSIDIARIES 2010 2011 11/10 Scope of reporting for KLM subsidiaries 93% 93% 0% HEALTH AND SAFETY Scope of reporting for Air France subsidiaries 76% 76% 0% Total workplace accidents √ 2 199 70 NC HEALTH AND SAFETY Number of fatal workplace accidents 0 0 0% Total workplace accidents √ 2 944 870 -8% Frequency rate for workplace accidents √ 3 27.64 5.88 NC TRAINING Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 3 0.19 0.08 -58% Number of training hours by employee √ 4 24 21 -13% TRAINING DISABLED STAFF Total training costs in K€ √ 22,584 21,206 -6% Total staff with disabilities √ 5 434 481 11% Total training costs in € per full time equivalent √ 2,782 2,961 6% Total staff with disabilities recruited during year √ 47 32 -32% DISABLED STAFF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS √ 25 43 Total staff with disabilities √ 5 66 81 23% √ Indicators veriﬁed by KPMG for 2011 (moderate level of assurance). COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS √ 11 4 * Data in italics concerns only Air France in Continental France and the French overseas territories. √ Indicators veriﬁed by KPMG for 2011 (moderate level of assurance). NC: not comparable. * KLM: Data concerns KLM without international staff. Women in the Group (in %) 2011 Board of Directors 20.0% GROUP ( GEC) 0% Executive Committees AF 13.3% Breakdown of staff by age (in %) KLM 8.8% AF 25.8% Senior managers/executives AIR FRANCE-KLM GROUP AIR FRANCE GROUP KLM GROUP KLM 20.2% AF 30.8% Ground staff managerial 40% KLM 24.1% CABIN CREW 51.7% AF 30% COCKPIT CREW 3.4% Flight crew managerial CABIN CREW 71.7% KLM COCKPIT CREW 3.4% 20% AF 39.9% Ground staff non managerial KLM 30.7% 10% CABIN CREW 65.4% AF COCKPIT CREW 7.0% Flight crew CABIN CREW 86.0% KLM 29 year and less Between 30 and Between 40 and 50 year and more COCKPIT CREW 5.0% 39 year included 49 year included 76 STATUTORY AUDITOR’S ASSURANCE REPORT ON A SELECTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INDICATORS OF AIR FRANCEKLM GROUP FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011 This is a free translation into English of the origiance would have required a more extensive work. KLM subsidiaries Transavia and Martinair to the nal report issued in the French language and is We assessed the reporting Protocol relating scope of some environmental indicators. However, provided solely for the convenience of Englishto environmental and social performance inthe integration of the signiﬁcant subsidiaries to the speaking readers. This report should be read in dicators with regard to its relevance, reliability, environmental and social reporting scope should conjunction with, and construed in accordance objectivity, clarity and and completeness. be pursued in 2012, in order to ensure that all the with professional guidelines applicable in France. We conducted interviews with the Air France Data are reported based on a Group scope. Environment and Sustainable Development The estimation methodologies of the environAs requested and in our capacity as Statutory division in order to verify our understanding mental indicators could be speciﬁed in the deﬁAuditors of Air France-KLM S.A., we performed of the reporting process and the organization nition sheets. a review in the aim of providing: in place, and the application of the reporting The internal control system has been improved at Protocol. Air France Data collection level, in particular regardlimited assurance on a selection of environmenWe performed detailed tests on the implemening the indicators “Volatile Organic Compounds – tal and social indicators for the year ended Detation of the Protocol on a sample of entities* VOC emissions” and “Industrial Waste”, but needs cember 31, 2011 selected by Air France-KLM (“the selected Entities”). For the selected Ento be strengthened at the level of: group and identiﬁed by the symbol √, tities, we veriﬁed the understanding and apenvironmental data collection and validation for reasonable assurance on the indicators “fuel plication of the Protocol, and we veriﬁed the KLM ground operations, consumption” and “CO2 emissions” related to calculations on a test basis, and reconciled data import in the Group’s reporting tool OSYRIS air operations for the year ended December 31, data with the supporting documentation. for the environmental indicators. 2011, identiﬁed by the symbol √√. We performed consistency tests on the consolidation of the Data at Group level. CONCLUSION This selection of indicators (“the Data”) is presented in the tables “environmental indicators” and “social The contribution of the selected Entities to the Limited assurance indicators” of the “2011 Registration Document” and Data represents an average of 84% for consoliBased on the procedures performed, nothing has the “2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report” of dated environmental Data published and 80% for come to our attention that causes us to believe Air France-KLM group. consolidated social Data published. that the Data presented in the tables environmenThese Data were prepared under the responsibility tal indicators and social indicators of the 2011 of the Air France Environment and Sustainable DeReasonable assurance Registration Document and the 2011 Corporate velopment division, in accordance with the internal We conducted the above mentioned procedures Social Responsibility Report of Air France-KLM performance reporting procedures, which may be in order to obtain evidence over the indicators “fuel Group, identiﬁed by the symbol √ , are not preconsulted at the Group’s head ofﬁce (“the Protocol”). consumption” and “CO2 emissions” related to air pared, in all material respects, in accordance with The notes on the methodology for the reporting of the operations, identiﬁed by the symbol √√ sufﬁcient the above-mentioned Protocol. social and environmental indicators, provided with the to give reasonable assurance that those indicators tables “environmental indicators” and “social indicaare free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance tors”, speciﬁes data collection and calculation methIn our opinion, the indicators “fuel consumption” odologies used to determine the published indicators. We were assisted in our work by the Environment and and “CO2 emissions” related to air operations, Sustainable Development professionals of our ﬁrm. identiﬁed by the symbol √√ in the ‘2011 RegistraOur responsibility is to provide a conclusion on tion Document’ and the ‘2011 Corporate Social the Data based on the work performed. The conCOMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S Responsibility Report’ are prepared, in all mateclusions expressed below relate solely to these REPORTING PROTOCOL AND rial respects, in accordance with the above-menData and not to the whole Air France-KLM group’s IMPLEMENTATION tioned Protocol. “2011 Registration Document” and the “2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report”. Based on the work performed, the following comParis La Défense, March 26, 2012 ments were made on the reporting Protocol and its NATURE AND SCOPE implementation: KPMG Audit OF THE WORK Due to differences between legislative frameworks, Department of KPMG S.A. the deﬁnitions of some social indicators are differWe conducted our procedures in accordance with ent between Air France and KLM. The ﬁgures are Valérie Besson, Partner ISAE 3000 standard, in compliance with applicadisclosed separately and cannot be compared. Michel Piette, Partner ble professional guidelines in France. Due to speciﬁc technical features, the calculation methodologies used for the indicators related to * Environment: Direction Générale Industrielle Air France (Roissy, Orly and Limited assurance the NOx and HC total emissions of air operations Villeneuve Le Roi), Direction Générale de l’Exploitation Air France (Roissy and Orly), Direction du Cargo Roissy, Régional, Servair group and its subsidiaries We conducted the following procedures in order are different between Air France and KLM. (Servair 1, Acna Roissy), CRMA, KLM Schiphol for ground operations. to obtain limited assurance about whether the seThe Group continued the extension of the reporting Air France and its subsidiaries CityJet, BritAir, Régional and Transavia France, KLM, KLM CityHopper, Transavia and Martinair for air operations. lected Data identiﬁed by the symbol √ are free from scope to its subsidiaries, for instance by integrating Social: Air France in France, Régional, KLM in The Netherlands, Transavia, KLM material missstatement. A higher level of assurthe Air France subsidiary Transavia France and Catering Services. CSR REPORT 2011 | ANNEXES 77 Annexes GLOBAL COMPACT ON COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Air France-KLM established a Corporate Social Responsibility Statement which covers the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Below an overview of where the information can be found in the report regarding these principles and where additional information can be found. EXTRA INFORMATION AVAILABLE OUTSIDE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE PAGES SOURCE THE CSR REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS 20, 22, 25, Air France-KLM Social Rights and Ethics Charter. In-house documents, 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 57, 59 Contract clause on labour protection, and Sustainability Charter for AIR FRANCE WEBSITE: http://corporate. proclaimed human rights; and suppliers. airfrance.com/en/sustainable-development 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses KLM WEBSITE: www.klm.com/csr LABOUR LAW 52-59 Air France: Charters for the prevention of harassment at the workplace, In-house documents, 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective for Occupational Safety and Accident prevention, Agreement on Air France and KLM websites recognition of the right to collective bargaining; psychological and social risks. Air France-KLM Registration Document 2011 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; KLM: preamble of the Collective Labor Agreement, Occupational Health (pages 98 and following) & Safety Policy Statement. 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 28-41 Code for Good Environmental Practices (GEP). In-house documents, 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Environmental protection clause for suppliers. Air France and KLM websites challenges; Air France-KLM Registration Document 2011 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and (pages 114 and following) 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION 16, 18, Air France-KLM Financial Code of Ethics. In-house documents, 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 20, 25 Code of Ethics to be signed by Air France and KLM buyers. Air France and KLM websites and bribery. Whistle blower procedures. Air France-KLM Registration Document 2011 KLM Code of Conduct. (pages 18-19) GRI CORRESPONDENCE TABLE GRI 3 principles and recommendations were taken into account for the writing of this report. GRI has performed the Application Level Check to show to which extent the GRI guidelines have been utilized in the report. The check conﬁrmed the A level. The complete GRI indicators table can be found on the Air France and KLM websites: www.klm.com/csr and http://corporate.airfrance.com/en/sustainable-development. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT PAGES OF THE REPORT STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE REPORT PARAMETERS PRODUCT REPONSIBILITY SECTOR SUPPLEMENT AND ENGAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL WORK HUMAN RIGHTS ECONOMIC SOCIETY INDICATORS MAIN CHAPTERS OF THE REPORT Foreword 3 X Interview 4 X Financial results 7 X Key ﬁgures 8 X X CSR main accomplishments 9 Our organization 12 X X Our approach to CSR 20 X X X X X Minimizing our environmental footprint 28 X X X Building a sustainable relationship with our customers 44 X X Promoting a responsible human resources policy 52 X X X X Contributing to local development 60 X X X X Annexes 68 X X X X X 78 INDEX Aviation Platform, p. 23 Diversity, p. 58 Materiality test, p. 22 Climate Action Plan, p. 29 DJSI, p. 23 Mobility, p. 55 Observatoire des métiers, p. 55 Eco-design, p. 24-25, 39, 50 Musculoskeletal Disorders, p. 56-57 Pays de Roissy-CDG association, p. 63-64 Electric vehicles, p. 40 Network, p. 8, 13 Safety champions, p. 57 Energy consumption, p. 38-39 New technologies, p. 47-49 Acting for Life, p. 65 Environmental Management System Noise, p. 33, 35, 64 Aérotropolis, p. 63 (SME), p. 38 Non-ﬁnancial rating agencies, p. 23 AFMAé (association), p. 63-64 Equal opportunities, p. 58 NRE social and environmental Airemploi, p. 63-64 Ergonomics, p. 56 indicators, p. 72-77 Air France and KLM Connect, p. 48-49 European Union Emissions Trading Scheme Offsetting, p. 34 Air France Foundation, p. 65-66 (EU-ETS ), p. 3, 19, 31 Psychosocial risks, p. 57 Air/rail comodality, p. 19 European White Book on transport REACH, p. 25 Aircraft dismantling, p. 38 policy, p. 19 Recycling, p. 24-25, 38-39, 50 Airport infrastructure, p. 19 Fleet, p. 13, 32-33, 70 Responsible products and services, p. 48-50 Airports residents, p. 3, 35, 64-65 Flight safety, p. 14 Safety Management System, p. 14 Alders table, p. 35, 63 Food safety, p. 22,49 Service quality, p. 47-49 Assistance in case of disruption, p. 47 Fuel consumption, p. 34-37 Shareholders, p. 17 Aviation sans frontières, p. 67 Fuel Plan, p. 34 Sheltered employment sector, p. 25, 58-59, 63 Balanced approach, p. 33 Global Reporting Intiative (GRI), p. 21, 78 Single European Sky, p. 19 Biodiversity, p. 41 Governance, p. 16-17, 21 SkyNRG, p. 24, 37 Biofuels, p. 4, 19, 36-37 GPEC, p. 55 SkyTeam, p. 13, 22 BtL, p. 37 Grand Paris, p. 63 Social Rights and Ethics Charter, p. 20, 22, 58 Business conduct rules, p. 18 Grand Roissy, p. 19, 35, 63 Social dialogue, p. 55 Business travel plan, p. 40, 64 Health and safety at workplace, p. 56-57 Social networks, p. 47 Carbon footprint, p. 34-35 Hubstart, p. 63 Solidarity, p. 55-67 Cargo, p. 5, 32, 51 Humanitarian and Development Sponsoring, p. 65-67 CDA (Continuous descent approach), p. 35 Programmes, p. 65-67 Stakeholders, p. 22, 68-69 CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), p. 23 IAGOS, p. 35 Subsidiaries, p. 23 CEA, p. 37 Innovation, p. 48-51 Supply chain, p. 24-25 Climate change, p. 31 Internal audit, p. 15, 21 Sustainable alternative fuels, p. 4, 19, 36-37 CO2 emissions calculator, p. 34 Internship, p. 58 Sustainability Charter for Group Consumer Health and Safety, p. 48-49 ICAO, p. 3, 19, 31, 33 suppliers, p. 24-25 Consumer rights, p. 19 IOSA, p. 14 Trade Unions, p. 55 CORAC, p. 35 ISO 14001, p. 15, 21, 38 Training charter, p. 55 CSR café, p. 59 ISO 26000, p. 21, 38 Training, p. 55 CSR Group statement, p. 20 JEREMY (association), p. 63-64 Transform 2015 (transformation plan), p. 3, 4 Customer, p. 44-51 Job market, p. 55 United Nations Global Compact, p. 3, 20-21, 78 Customer expectations, p. 47-49 KLM AirCares, p. 65-66 Voluntary redundancy programme, p. 55 Customer service, p. 47-49 LGBT, p. 58 Waste, p. 38-39 Customer surveys, p. 47 Local air quality, p.33, 40 Water consumption, p. 38 Deforestation, p. 41 Local development, p. 60-67 Working conditions, p. 56-57 Disability, p. 25, 58-59, 63 Maintenance, p. 6, 24, 38-39, 51, 59 Workplace accidents, p. 56 List of main abbreviations ACNUSA Autorité de contrôle des nuisances sonores aéroportuaires EU-ETS Emissions Trading Scheme AEA Association of European Airlines GRI Global reporting initiative AESA European Aviation Safety Agency IATA International Air Transport Association CCAR Consultative Commission for Aid to Local Residents ICAO International Civil Aviation Organization CCE Environmental Advisory Committee NOx Nitrogen oxide CO2 Carbon dioxide QSE Quality, Safety and Environment DGAC Direction générale de l'aviation civile Roissy-CDG Aéroport Roissy-Charles de Gaulle DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes SESAR Single european sky air trafﬁc management research CSR REPORT 2011 | ANNEXES 79
