UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2011 About Lincoln Crowne & Company® LCC is an independent securities dealer specialising in the delivery of strategic Mergers & Acquisitions advice. As a trusted independent and boutique corporate finance firm, LCC has expertise in guiding Boards of Directors and Shareholders through complex Mergers & Acquisitions and Corporate Strategy Engagements. LCC’s approach to all engagements is based on both technical and economic fundamentals, and how these fundamentals translate into shareholder value. LCC’s core principles are based on the understanding that its purpose as a Firm is to deliver deal making expertise, innovative thinking, deep commercial and financial judgment, and clear independent advice. Continuing Commitment Nicholas Assef Since its initial commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’), Lincoln Crowne & Company® (‘LCC®’) has continued to advocate the importance of the UNGC’s Executive Chairman Ten Principles throughout the 2011 year. naa@lcc.asia T: +612 8288 8688 In particular, the social responsibility aspect of our corporate governance model continues to focus on the rights of children in under developed countries –a particular emphasis in Asia M: +61 424 222 444 Pacific, the region in which we primarily conduct our work. We are committed to finding ways in WWW.LCC.ASIA which youth can be supported, nurtured and educated in these developing nations. We have found that the reference to the UNGC in staff orientation packages, education and ongoing training of our staff and in client-facing documentation has added a depth to our commitment, as well as an immediate interest in our level of engagement with the Ten Principles. Twelve months since I last reported to the UNGC, it gives me great pleasure in making a continued statement of support. The ten Principles still form a large part of the framework in which LCC engages and conducts its work both in Australia, and across the Asian region. I would like to second Georg Kell’s words Executive Director of the UN Global Compact, when he commented on sustainable business practices and their place within the overall philosophy and corporate governance structures of any firm. It is only when a business has sustainable values and practices in place that long-term value can be built from the ground up. LCC both respects and shares this view. I remain proud to be the Director continuing LCC’s commitment to the UNGC. WWW.LCC.ASIA © Lincoln Crowne & Company Q1 2012 UN Global Compact Ongoing Company Policy Relevance LCC’s business continues to develop on a cross border basis. Our Firm comes into continual contact with organizations based in emerging Asian nations, and as such, the Ten core Principles remain of the utmost importance to bear in mind as we interact with such organizations. As these emerging nations develop, we have observed examples where advancement of basic human rights and often issues of corruption plague these economies. Principle 10 of the UNGC provides an excellent external point of reference and reinforcement of the repugnance of such practices. On this, LCC is careful to only engage with companies that LCC’s External Documentation Community page have demonstrated positive action on such principles, and LCC conducts risk assessment analysis on each individual case in point. Lincoln Crowne & Company’s new corporate website pays direct In the resources industry, we have observed instances where attention to our commitment to charitable and philanthropic unacceptable labour and work conditions have combined to, in works, as well as our pledge to support the UN Global Compact our opinion, amount to an effective abuse of basic human rights. – this is both an external site, and a means for staff to engage We have been careful to steer away from involvement with any with. Further information is available in Staff Orientation Guides such organization given our core commitment to the UNGC. and Operations Manuals. All external documentation such as Pitch Books; Memo’s; letters to clients; and invoices, highlight Our core business involves dealing directly with Boards and LCC’s commitment to the UNGC. To a prospective client/ Directors. The UNGC directly addresses the role of corporate contact, these documents serve as an initial reference to what boards in moving their companies towards sustainable LCC respects and upholds as good business practice and good practice policies. LCC is then challenged to ensure its business values. This gives credibility to our work, and situates ongoing commitment to the UNGC by choosing to work with our business within the wider, more globalized social context. CEO’s, Boards of Directors and Shareholders that promote a demonstrated respect for environmental, anti-corruption, LCC uses the UNGC logo. The logo is positioned on all labour and human rights policies that are in line with the UNGC. Appendices on external work, the LCC website and subsidiary This has involved our analysts conducting in-depth company Lincoln Crowne Foundation website. We have found that this research to come to the satisfactory ‘checks and balances’ in our positioning has produced inquiries as to the purpose and due diligence prior to engagement. Such instances have allowed relevance of the UNGC, and has created a level of respect for the LCC’s staff to understand real world examples of unacceptable Firm and its ongoing commitment to the principles of the UNGC. corporate behavior, and LCC has educated them as to the correct and appropriate way to deal with situations when they arise. In relation to matters of the environment, LCC seeks to minimize This has particular relevance in cross-border engagements, as its carbon footprint. We elect to recycle all items responsibly, previously expressed. Driving these core due diligence principles including difficult items such as old computer hardware. We into our culture ensures staff think critically and ‘outside their minimize our use of paper within the office, and limit printing office’ about social issues in a way which they might otherwise to the bare minimum, whilst recycling printer cartridges not have. Along with this comes a ripple effect of ‘peer to peer’ where possible. LCC has also turned to cartridge distributors learned culture as our team expands, essentially growing and that carry the ‘green friendly’ label. We are careful with our emphasizing our ongoing commitment. choice of energy efficient hardware and of our distributors and manufacturer’s practices in the same manner. LCC UN GLOBAL COMPACT // 3 Philanthropy & the Australian Chapter The UNGC’s principles are upheld by LCC in our ongoing work LCC intends to continue forging and building partnerships with with children’s charities in developing nations, through the organisations whose core purpose is to educate, house, feed and Lincoln Crowne Foundation, which Nicholas Assef founded. look after the children the world merely sees as a statistic. The Through this work we continue to learn of unacceptable Foundation’s support is focused on supporting organizations circumstances where children are forced into labour, in direct who locally work for children who have suffered the effects of conflict with Principle 5. poverty, lack of education and malnourishment. The Foundation’s Guiding Principles identify with We continue to advocate at every opportunity the much of what the Global Compact upholds. repugnance of a child’s tender youth being (see diagram) exploited in the workplace. Of the Ten D GE Principles this is a standout in our The Foundation’s first LE Firm’s cultural and business O W Y AC two guiding principles philosophy. We are guided N C are to seek to help O N by the United Nations DV ATIO K communities and Convention on the UC A R EN organisations that Rights of the Child work to support the ED ILD (UNCROC) and our OBA plight of children S ROOTS support to varying AS CH in Australasia and GR HEA LTH CARE GL initiatives is guided MOR ALS to provide an also by this L AWARENE impact on the MMUNITIES commitment. betterment of CO these children’s ARITIES Whilst there are lives. Both of CH estimated to be these guiding OR SS around 23,000 principles mirror G AN street children UM IS A Principle 1 & 2 of H TIO NS throughout Vietnam, the Human Rights set C O AN LCC sees it’s region M RIG H of core values of the MU TS as being very much PR O NIC UNGC, and it is for this FE AT I O N part of its philanthropic SS reason we choose to partner IO responsibility to assist where with certain organisations. NA possible. In 2011, The Foundation L ETH ICS made contributions to the Blue Unfortunately, as the UN has correctly Dragon Children’s Fund in Vietnam. We identified, there are still too many children directly sponsored a young girl, who with the affected by neglect and poverty. While universal education Foundation’s support, was able to work towards her goal by 2015 is one of the key Millennium Development goals, of finishing her studies in 2012, and look forward to a more decades after commitments to this were made some 68 million prosperous and exciting future. Whilst this is only one young girl primary school age children worldwide are still denied this right. out of many, the Foundation is working for progress and change The world cannot ignore this statistic, and neither can we. and to uphold its guiding principles at all times. WWW.LCC.ASIA © Lincoln Crowne & Company Q1 2012 UN Global Compact These values are interchangeable with LCC and the Foundation. Whilst even the most affluent in the world continue to struggle They are one and the same. with the post-global financial crisis, children who have become trapped in the vacuum of poverty, suffer no end. It is these The Foundation also made financial commitments to Treasure statistics that have driven us to enable change in regional grass House Children’s Home in Fiji in 2011. Treasure House is a roots organisations that need support. home for under privileged children orphaned through tragic circumstances. Some of them are without one or both parents, in some cases as a direct result of domestic crisis and violence, deep poverty and drug, alcohol or sex abuse – a breach of the UNGC Principles 1 & 2. The ongoing support of the Foundation resulted in one of the children’s play areas being named The Nicholas Room, a great honour for myself as founder of the Firm and the Foundation. The Foundation recently made a donation so that Treasure House could purchase four new tyres for their bus. Future activities As a small operation LCC’s objective is to ensure that LCC has recently partnered with Variety, the Children’s the Ten Principles are interwoven into our operations Charity to support the 12ft Skiff Port Jackson as our business footprint continues to grow. It is our Championships. This represents the launch of a series of core business to ensure that we align our strategies and projects aimed at raising awareness for Alopecia Areata, operational goals with support focused on providing a serious medical condition where sufferers traumatically poor communities, particularly in the Asia Pacific region, and without explanation suddenly lose their scalp and with access to health care, clean water, and education. body hair. Whilst this medical condition does not fall under one of the Ten Principles it is a clear example of the During 2012 LCC will be investigating additional firm’s efforts in engaging with charitable organisations Networks and Organizations that are complimentary to whose aim it is to advance and primarily consider the both the UNGC and the social responsibility path which ‘best interests of the child’ -a principle of the UNCROC, LCC wishes to develop. We receive almost weekly requests and an underpinning core value of the UN itself. for support, both through existing partnerships, and new ones. This year, LCC aims to review these requests with Lincoln Crowne and Company, with and through the a more structured and reflective approach, looking at Lincoln Crowne Foundation is looking forward to a 2012 contributions annually, rather than as ad-hoc. that reaches out and does more for what the principles of the UNGC sets out as integral to good corporate governance and responsibility. LCC seeks to do this with the knowledge it is a signatory to the world’s most recognised global business strategic policy initiative. LCC UN GLOBAL COMPACT // 5 Contact AUSTRALIAN OFFICE SINGAPORE OFFICE NEW YORK REP. OFFICE Level 18, Aurora Place 80 Raffles Place Rockerfeller Centre 88 Phillip Street UOB Plaza 1 120 Avenue of the Americas Sydney NSW 2000 #36-01, Singapore 7th Floor, NY NY Australia 048624 10020 Correspondence Correspondence Correspondence GPO Box 4154 80 Raffles Place, UOB Plaza 1 To be directed to Sydney NSW 2001 #36-01, Singapore 048624 Sydney office T: +612 9262 2121 T: +65 6248 4586 T: +917 639 4239 F: +612 8088 1239 F: +65 6248 4531 F: +917 639 4005 Lead Contact: Lead Contact: Lead Contact: Nicholas Assef Michael Kelly John Morgan naa@lcc.asia mrk@lcc.asia jjm@lcc.asia T: +612 8288 8688 T: +65 9823 2800 T: +917 639 4239
