2 0 11 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT Contents The English language version of this report is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate presentation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation, views or opinions expressed in the original language version of the document in French take precedence over the translation. 1. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 1. 5 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 6. STATEMENTS 113 2. INTRODUCTION 2. 6.1 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6.2 Consolidated income statement 114 115 TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 7 6.3 Statement of income and expense 2.1 Milestones in the Group’s history 8 recognized in equity 116 2.2 The Group’s activities 9 6.4 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 117 2.3 The market and competitive environment 11 6.5 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 118 2.4 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 13 6.6 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 119 2.5 Main Group subsidiaries and 6.7 Notes to the consolidated simpliﬁed organization chart 23 ﬁnancial statements 120 2.6 The Group’s investment policy 25 2.7 Risk analysis 26 2.8 Cap Gemini S.A. and the stock market 30 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL 7. 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL 3. STATEMENTS 7.1 Balance sheet 177 178 7.2 Income statement 180 RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY 33 7.3 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 181 3.1 Our commitment and strategy 35 7.4 Subsidiaries and investments 196 3.2 Ethics 38 7.5 Five-year ﬁnancial summary 197 3.3 Our people 40 3.4 Our stakeholders 56 7.6 Statutory auditors’ reports 198 3.5 The Group and the environment 62 3.6 GRI correlation table 66 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT 8. 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT 4. RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO THE COMBINED PRESENTED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 24, 2012 205 TO THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING 8.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary OF MAY 24, 2012 69 Shareholders’ Meeting 206 4.1 General comments on the Group’s activity 8.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary over the past year 70 Shareholders’ Meeting 208 4.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group Consolidated Financial Statements and outlook for 2012 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. 73 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION 9. 215 Financial Statements 75 9.1 Legal information 216 4.4 Environmental and social impact 9.2 Share capital 218 of the Group’s operations 84 9.3 Corporate governance 223 4.5 Financing policy and market risks 85 9.4 Agreements with executive corporate ofﬁcers 229 4.6 Financial authorizations 86 9.5 Employee proﬁt-sharing and incentive plans 230 9.6 Group management structure 231 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF 5. 9.7 Persons responsible for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements 9.8 Person responsible for information 232 233 THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 9.9 2012 provisional ﬁnancial calendar 234 OF DIRECTORS 89 9.10 Declaration by the person responsible 5.1 The Board of Directors and its activities 91 for the Reference Document 235 5.2 Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees 5.3 Compensation of Directors, non-voting Directors and executive corporate ofﬁcers 96 99 10. CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 10. 237 5.4 General organization of the Group 100 10.1 Information required under Commission 5.5 Internal control and risk management Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 238 procedures 103 10.2 Information required in the Annual 5.6 Statutory Auditors’ report 111 Financial Report 238 3 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ BOARD OF DIRECTORS Serge KAMPF, Chairman Daniel BERNARD Yann DELABRIÈRE Laurence DORS Paul HERMELIN, Vice-Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Michel JALABERT Phil LASKAWY Bernard LIAUTAUD Thierry de MONTBRIAL Ruud van OMMEREN Terry OZAN Pierre PRINGUET Bruno ROGER NON-VOTING DIRECTORS “CENSEURS” Pierre HESSLER Geoff UNWIN STATUTORY AUDITORS PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit represented by Serge VILLEPELET KPMG S.A. represented by Jean-Luc DECORNOY 4 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 1. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS In millions of euros 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Revenues 8,703 8,710 8,371 8,697 9,693 Operating expenses (8,063) (7,966) (7,776) (8,110) (8,980) Operating margin 640 744 595 587 713 % of revenues 7.4% 8.5% 7.1% 6.8% 7.4% Operating profit 493 586 333 489 595 % of revenues 5.7% 6.7% 4.0% 5.6% 6.1% Profit for the year 440 451 178 280 404 % of revenues 5.1% 5.2% 2.1% 3.2% 4.2% Earnings per share Number of shares at December 31 145,425,510 145,844,938 154,177,396 155,770,362 155,770,362 Earnings per share at December 31 (in euros) 3.03 3.09 1.16 1.80 2.59 Dividend per share for the year (in euros) 1.00 1.00 0.80 1.00 1.00* NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT DECEMBER 31 889 774 1,269 1,063 454 Average number of employees 79,213 86,495 90,238 97,571 114,354 Number of employees at December 31 83,508 91,621 90,516 108,698 119,707 * Subject to approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012. http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 5 1 Financial Direction Deputy General Manager and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer: Nicolas Dufourcq to whom report directly: GROUP FUNCTIONS Finance Director Alain de Marcellus Tax and Corporate Finance Lucia Sinapi-Thomas Business Control Anne Trizac Transformation Eric Jahn Mergers and Acquisitions José Gonzalo Financial Communications and Investor Relations Walter Vejdovsky STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNITS Application Services One Christophe du Vignaux Application Services Two Eric Hanania Infrastructure Services Luc Bourguignon Consulting Michel Ginet BPO Oliver Pfeil Sogeti Laurent Llavall MAIN COUNTRIES United States Richard Plessner United Kingdom Tony Deans Netherlands Andy Berrens France Eric Michel India Cyrille Desjonquères 6 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 7 2.1 Milestones in the Group’s history 8 2.2 The Group’s activities 9 2.3 The market and competitive environment 11 2.4 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 13 2.5 Main Group subsidiaries and simpliﬁed organization chart 23 2.6 The Group’s investment policy 25 2.7 Risk analysis 26 2.8 Cap Gemini S.A. and the stock market 30 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 7 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Milestones in the Group’s history 2 2.1 Milestones in the Group’s history 1967 Formation of SoGETI by Serge Kampf, on October 1, in Grenoble (France). 1970 SoGETI and OBM (Organization Bossard Michel) agree to combining IT and consulting services. 1971 Creation of Eurinfor, “facilities management” company, by SoGETI with the Cofradel Group and Lyonnaise de Banque. 1973 The 7th “Rencontres SoGETI” in Djerba (Tunisia), the last ‘Rencontres” to which all Group employees (440) are invited. 1974 SoGETI takes control of C.A.P. (the leading French IT service company at the time) and of Gemini Computer Systems (US). 1975 January 1 marks the ofﬁcial birth of the Cap Gemini Sogeti Group, which, with a headcount of 1,000, becomes Europe’s top IT services company. 9th “Rencontres” in Istanbul (Turkey), with 270 participants. 1976 The Group moves it headquarters to 17, avenue Georges V, Paris. The ﬁrst Annual Report is published (ﬁnancial year 1975). 1977 The French authorities veto EDS acquiring a stake in the Group. 1978 The Group takes on the US market and sets up its ﬁrst “outpost” in Washington DC (Cap Gemini Inc.). 1980 After a long tussle with the SESA, the Group gets the DGT contract to produce the French electronic phonebook by the DGT. 1981 The sale of SORINFOR marks the Group’s withdrawal from processing activities. 1982 Revenues exceed the one billion French franc (150 million euros) mark, of which half is generated outside France. 1984 To general surprise, Serge Kampf declares that English is to be the Group’s ofﬁcial language. 1985 Spectacular initial public offering of the Group’s shares on the Paris stock exchange (with demand 123 times the offer). 1986 The group takes control of SESA, having held a 42% stake since 1982. 1989 The Group reports a year-end after-tax proﬁt of 7.4%, a record not yet broken. 1990 17th “Rencontres” in Marrakesh (Morocco): the 550 participants decided on an aggressive strategy including, if necessary, joining up with an industrial group. Shortly after, the Group makes several acquisitions: SCS in Germany, Hoskyns, the European leader in ”outsourcing” activities, and two US companies (URC and Mac Group) to comprise the Group’s consulting “pole.” The invasion of Kuwait starts off a global economic crisis, which lasted four years. 1991 Daimler-Benz takes a 34% stake in the holding company Sogeti (which itself controls 60% of the Group). 1992 Acquisition of Volmac in the Netherlands (3,200 employees) and Progamator in Sweden (1,600 employees). At the 18th “Rencontres,” which unites 700 managers in Prague (Czechoslovakia), GENESIS is launched. This is Group’s ﬁrst transformation program, and mobilizes up to 5,000 employees for over a year. By the year-end, Cap Gemini—after 25 years of consecutive growth—announces the ﬁrst losses in its history (it will be a similar story in 1993 and 1994). 1996 Under the combined pressure of the two other major shareholders, Serge Kampf accepts the “amalgamation” of the two-tiered control of SKIP and SOGETI within the listed company Cap Gemini Sogeti. 1997 Daimler-Benz exits from its shareholding in Group Brossard Consultants (in which Capgemini has held a 49% stake for more than 20 years!) and the latter is integrated into the Group’s “consulting” arm. Celebration of the Group’s 30th birthday during a memorable evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris. 1998 Cap Gemini rejoins the Paris stock exchange’s CAC40 index (it had been on the index from August 1988 to November 1993), 2000 Acquisition of Ernst & Young Consulting (employing more than 12,000 consultants). The Cap Gemini share price rose to its highest ever level of 368.9 euros in March, making a stock market capitalization on that day of 44.5 billion euros. 2002 Creation of a subsidiary specializing in local services and taking over the Sogeti name. 2003 Sogeti acquires Transiciel (7,000 employees); the Group signs a major multi-year contract with the British tax authorities and opens its ﬁrst “offshore” production center in Mumbai (India) 2006 Launch of the I.cube (Industrialization, Innovation, Intimacy) transformation program. 2007 Acquisition of Kanbay International, a US company with a strong presence in India and specializing in financial services (7,000 employees). Capgemini is the main sponsor of the 6th Rugby XV World Cup. Celebratory evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris, to mark the Group’s 40th birthday. 2008 A number of small acquisitions, including Getronics PinkRoccade in the Netherlands. 2009 Acquisitions in Romania, Vietnam and Australia. Launch of ﬁve global service lines. 2010 Acquisition of IBX in Sweden and CPM Braxis in Brazil (5,000 employees); 23rd Group “Rencontres” in Barcelona (Spain) around the theme “la niaque” (ﬁghting spirit). The Group ends the year with a headcount in excess of 100,000. 2011 Acquisition of eight companies, including Artesys, Avantias and Prosodie in France, and Praxis Technology in China. The Group restructures around six Strategic Business Units (SBUs). Launch of a new global service line. 8 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP The Group’s activities 2.2 The Group’s activities 2 Present in 40 countries, the Capgemini Group’s mission is to help its clients improve their performance and competitive positioning. Campaign “We are the ones”, year II It proposes to its clients a range of services that combine perfect Launched at the end of 2010 under the slogan “ People command of its four business lines, strong expertise in several matter, results count ”, the global advertising campaign sectors and ‘packaged’ offers integrating the best available “We are the ones” gives a voice on the global digital media to technologies. Capgemini specialists where they describe, proof in hand, some key projects on which they worked alongside clients. The campaign is centered on the platform “Expert Connect”, FOUR MAJOR BUSINESSES made up of more than 80 experts from across the globe and all of the Group’s businesses. Expert Connect is proof that • Consulting Services: the aim is to help the Group’s clients the digital strategy of the Capgemini Group –largely based identify, build and carry through transformation programs that on the social networks– is the right one. will improve growth and sharpen their competitive edge on a The campaign generated around 20,000 conversations long-term basis ; during 2011, reinforcing the Capgemini brand by putting into • Technolog y Services (TS): these include the design, practice the Group’s desire to bring people and experience development and implementation of a wide range of together. technology projects that involve complex systems integration and IT application development; • L o c a l Profe s si o n a l S e r v i c e s (S o ge ti): this delivers The five major global business lines launched by the Group professional technology services to suit local requirements between the end of 2009 and March 2012 form the basis of a for infrastructures, applications, engineering, testing and rich portfolio of some 20 offers, and are expected to grow in operations; tandem with major developments in the market, and sectorial • Outsourcing Ser vices (OS): this involves guiding and needs. In areas of activity such as BPO, the Group is now supporting a client’s (or a group of several clients’), either the owner of technology platforms (especially in purchasing wholly or partly, information systems and associated activities following its acquisition of IBX, in energy with the purchase (BPO) for an average period of five years, but which could of Skvader, and in multi-channel client relations with the extend to ten years or even longer. acquisition of Prosodie). These may be proposed to clients in place of speciﬁc solutions, which are generally more difﬁcult to T h e pas t few ye a r s have se e n ra dic al a n d p e r m a n e nt standardize and market to other companies. transformations in market demand and production methods. Affected in less than a single decade by two economic crises– All the while, Capgemini has continued to foster a close the ﬁrst in 2002, followed by the crisis that spread across the relationship based on trust and mutual respect with its clients, globe between 2007 and 2009– the market demand has moved so as to provide them with the kind of results they expect from towards a greater rationalization of IT systems, stricter budgets the Group. (resulting in purchasing departments becoming more closely involved in the decision-making process). It has also required greater ﬂexibility in business processes, and quantiﬁable results THE SIX SECTORS for each project. To this list, must be added the desire to turn investments The Group’s experience in the various industries means that it is –capital tied up to acquire expensive IT infrastructures– into on the same wavelength as its clients, able to understand their operating costs, with the idea that you only pay for what you needs and propose the best solutions for the speciﬁc objectives. consume. In short, at one and the same time, companies worry The Group has particularly strong expertise in the following about reducing costs, satisfying strong demand for innovation, economic sectors: and keeping close tabs on their purchases. • Public Sector:supporting public sector organizations, public agencies and local authorities to modernize their services, and To meet these expectations, the Capgemini Group has: develop associated projects. • equipped itself with a flexible, global production capacity • Energy, Utilities & Chemicals: helping companies to rise to (Rightshore ®) linked to greater processes standardization, the twin challenges of constant changes in regulations and in line with Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) increasing environmental concerns. The Group is global leader standards, the international certiﬁcation system for software in IT systems for managing smart electricity grids and meters. production ; • Financial Services: rationalizing the applications and IT • built, alongside major technology partners, an ecosystem that infrastructures of financial organizations, while also staying allows it rapidly to derive maximum beneﬁt from technological ahead of the curve to supply business model innovations, breakthroughs; particularly in mobility and smart data management. • put in place a large portfolio of innovative offers in key areas • Manufacturing: manufacturing has entered a new growth (such as cloud computing, intelligent data management and cycle, but is also facing major and continual raw materials application testing) or in certain sectors, such as energy. price hikes. The Group offers its clients solutions, especially in CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 9 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP The Group’s activities 2 outsourcing and BPO, enabling them to make large savings in the • Telecom, Media & Marketing: operators in this sector are management of IT systems and their main business activities. facing many challenges –lower revenues from their traditional • Consumer Products, Retail, Distribution & Transportation: this activities, digital content competition from players in other sector is also having to confront rising raw materials prices. sectors, and saturated networks following the explosion in digital Capgemini provides the technical back-up –especially around content. Having been a legacy partner of these actors for more cloud computing– and the expertise to build e-commerce than 30 years, Capgemini offers innovative solutions based on platforms combining ﬂexibility and speed. its deep sector and digital knowledge, and its technological expertise in networks. 10 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP The market and competitive environment 2.3 The market and competitive 2 environment The Capgemini Group operates in what US market analysis THE COMPETITION company Gar tner calls the IT ser vices market, with the aggregate worldwide market totaling 527 billion euros in 2011.1 Capgemini’s competitors may be divided into three groups: Capgemini is classed the seventh largest global player and global, offshore and regional players. in fifth place if the Japanese market, where the Group is not present, is excluded. Global players include the two information technology giants, IBM and HP. Their presence in other, closely related, hardware North America, the number one IT services market, represents and software technology markets enables them to capitalize on around 42% of the total. The Group carries out an important their client relationships in a larger market. The pure IT service part of its activity in North America. It is making regular progress players, Accenture and CSC, come next. Capgemini can claim in terms of increasing market share, without yet taking the to belong to this small group of global players, its most direct leadership. Western Europe is the second global market, at competitors. In this group are also included groups of Japanese around 28% of the total: here the Group ranks second overall, origin, such as Fujitsu and NTT Data, mainly present in Japan but and is market leader in the Netherlands and France. Other who are developing their presence elsewhere. markets (excluding Japan) represented around 15% of the total market in 2011. The Group’s global market share was around The offshore players (essentially Indian in origin) are the 1.8% in 2010: in Western Europe it stands at around 4.7%. emerging players in IT services. The biggest amongst them, such as TCS, Infosys, Wipro, Cognizant or HCL, can claim to Gartner segments the market into the following categories: compete against the global players. Consulting, Development & Integration (D&I), IT Management and Business Process Management. This categorization Lastly, the regional players, of which there are many, given that more or less correlates with the Group’s businesses, although there are few entry barriers in this industry. Generally, they Gartner’s IT Management and Process Management are do not have the deep offers or the geographical coverage of grouped together under Outsourcing Services (OS), while, for the global players. In Europe, the recent link-up between Atos Capgemini, Development & Integration comes under Systems and Siemens IT Services is a sign of ongoing consolidation in Integration and Local Professional Services (Sogeti). Since the the sector, with the other important players being T-Systems, different markets are closely related, there are overlaps in areas Logica, Indra and Steria. In North America, the largest are such as applications –which encompass both development Lockheed Martin, SAIC, CGI, Deloitte and Xerox. and maintenance activities and are close to t wo Group businesses (Application Services and Sogeti), as well as with IT infrastructures. MARKET TRENDS The Consulting market totals 60 billion euros. 1 Thanks to Capgemini Consulting, the Group is the number ten global The marked change in IT service market structure due to the player, with strong positions in Europe, especially in France. spectacular development of offshore (initiated at the beginning Consulting is the most cyclical of all the segments. of the 2000s by Indian service companies), has become intensiﬁed with the rapid development of cloud computing. The The global Development & Integration market is estimated Indian companies attacked the North American markets by at 182 billion euros. 1 The Group is the ninth player worldwide providing them with offshore manpower, well-trained and and second in Western Europe. D&I is also relatively cyclical, low-cost. That is how they were able to win market share especially in Local Professional Services, which function in short rapidly, especially in the most accessible market segments cycles (and contracts), while systems integration activities have (re-engineering, maintenance and applications development) slightly longer time frames. and in the English-speaking world (the United States, but also the United Kingdom and Canada). Today, they are gradually Consulting and D&I mainly relate to capital expenditures on moving into more complex market segments (installation of behalf of the Group’s clients, making these cyclical markets too. software packages) and into non-English speaking countries IT and process management involve, for the most par t, (ﬁrst the Nordic countries, then the Netherlands and Germany, maintenance and operation, with longer cycles and contracts, and now France). In order to face up the competition, all the making them more resilient. The IT management market is players, particularly global companies such as Capgemini, estimated at 184 billion euros,1 and the Group is regarded as the have strongly stepped up their presence in India, adjusting ninth global player in this area. The process management market their delivery models so as to allow their offshore teams to is estimated at 101 billion euros,1 but the Group is not among the participate and, subsequently, to increase their involvement in leaders in this segment. the development of clients’ projects. In this way, they have been able to restore their margins and lower their prices, so keeping a 1 Gartner Market Databook March 2012, Professional IT Services. competitive edge. The offshore players, on the other hand, have responded by strengthening their local presence to develop CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 11 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP The market and competitive environment 2 client proximity, and grow in market segments where remote and Microsoft. It accelerated with the ubiquity of IT usage coming work is difﬁcult to implement, as in consulting. from multiple devices (PCs, tablets, smartphones). Thanks to its strong positioning in infrastructure management and mastery of The cloud computing phenomenon, which involves the use of business processes, Capgemini is uniquely positioned to beneﬁt ‘on demand’ services or infrastructures shared by many public from this breakthrough to a new economic model, brought about users, was launched by the big players such as Amazon, Google by a different way of consuming IT resources. 12 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2.4 2011, a year of innovation 2 and expansion Revenues up, higher operating margin, signiﬁcant increases in net A NEW ORGANIZATION BASED UPON cash position during the second half following several strategic LARGE BUSINESS UNITS acquisitions, substantial increase in net result… The ﬁnancial year’s results are fully in line with the roadmap set To provide the best solutions to meet clients’ expectations and out in 2010 for the following four years. With these good results, market trends, Capgemini has implemented a new operating and continuing to beneﬁt from investments made in recent years, organization. Its activity is now structured in the following way: the Group is confronting the year 2012 with conﬁdence. • First, around six Strategic Business Units covering the major technological developments: THE REVENUE Capgemini Consulting, Local Professional Services (Sogeti), Infrastructure Services, eg the design, construction and BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY BUSINESS maintenance of clients’ IT infrastructures, two SBUs Application Ser vices One and Application Local Professional Ser vices Two, regrouping systems integrations and Services 15.7% applications maintenance in two geographic entities, Business Process Outsourcing (BPO). Consulting Services • Second, around three operational units dedicated to the Technology Services 5.3% development of new geographies (China and Latin America) 41.5% and new business models (including Prosodie). Outsourcing Services 37.5% THE GLOBAL SERVICE LINES Capgemini’s cross-disciplinary offers were deployed from BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY SECTOR October 2009 as the following global service lines: Telecom, Media & Financial Entertainment • Business Information Management (BIM): optimized Services 9.3% management of business information, throughout their life 20.8% Manufacturing cycle, and exploitation of the wealth they represent; 17.7% • Testing Services: the combined industrialization and expertise Consumer Products, of Capgemini and Sogeti in software testing and quality Public Retail, Distribution assurance; Sector & Transportation 24.3% 12.7% • Smart Energy Services (SES): helping energy supply and Others Energy, Utilities distribution clients to transform their parks of networks and 4.4% & Chemicals smart terminals; 10.8% • Business Process Management (BPM): business process management. BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY COUNTRY OR REGION During 2011, two of the global service lines launched in 2009France Rest of Europe, 22.1% 2010 became solutions managed by the new SBUs within the Asia and Latin America 26.1% structure of the new organization: • Infostructure Transformation Services (ITS): optimization of infrastructures by deriving the greatest advantage from cloud Benelux computing, integrated within the SBU Infrastructure Services; 13.1% North America • Application Lifecycle Services (ALS): supports full lifecycle of 18.6% applications, from development to operation and maintenance, through testing and integration, included in the SBUs United Kingdom Application Services One and Application Services Two. 20.1% CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 13 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2 In 2011, the contribution of the four global service lines generated 2011: an offers portfolio acclaimed by the a margin some nine points higher than that of other Capgemini market activities. These service lines have, therefore, contributed to the Group’s good performance. “2011 was a year of innovation In 2011, the three global service lines Business Information and expansion that has put us on an equal footing with the best Management (BIM), Testing Services and Smart Energy Services Western companies,” declares Paul Hermelin, Group CEO. ‘We (SES) saw growth of 20% or more (respectively +19%, +24% and have widened our offers portfolio around our global service lines, which +55%), and produced much higher margins than the Group’s exceeded their objectives, thus winning greater recognition from our other activities. The new offers were acclaimed by clients, clients and market analysts.” and received a warm welcome from the technology partners as well as analysts: the market sees a strong demonstration In March 2011, a new global service line, Mobile Solutions, was of the Group’s capacity to innovate and transform. Thanks to launched to cover all aspects of mobility. these offers, Capgemini won major successes in the face of top-class competition. Today, this bold strategy offers promising prospects. The Virtues of Rightshore® Thus, ‘smart’ management solutions for energy consumption provided by Smart Energy Services won six major clients, The Group relies on its global delivery model Rightshore®, including one ‘historic’ contract signed with SP AusNet, a gas a combination of local resources close to the client with and electricity supplier in Australia. specialist production centers further away, all serving the The Group’s Testing Services line was chosen as a strategic same project. The project is carried out uniformly by a testing partner by Everything Everywhere, a leading UK telecoms united team with a global talent, as indicated in the motto: operator, and its BIM service line as BI transformation partner ‘Global talent, one team’. Many clients across all sectors by Unilever. have been won over by the Rightshore® model. This is the case, notably, of Capgemini’s major international BPO clients. At the end of 2011, the Group’s offshore assets Two new global service lines to enrich the offers totaled 44,468 individuals, of whom 35,728 are in India, portfolio 37% of the total workforce compared with 35% in 2010. “Rightshore® gives our clients the guarantee of having the right • The business line Business Process Management (BPM), person, at the right time, in the right place,” conﬁdes Aruna launched in March 2011, aims to provide clients with Jayanthi, Managing director of Capgemini India. “This solutions which can be quickly implemented in different unique model is a formidable way of optimizing resources. It BPM areas –for example, value and per formance allows us to offer a global, seamless service.” management, accelerated business analysis, leveraging BPM technologies, unified process streamlining, and end-to-end BPM governance. Drawing on the resources of a recently opened Center of Excellence in India, Capgemini DEVELOPMENT OF OFFERS is working alongside its legacy partners Oracle and PORTFOLIO Pegasystems, as well as with new partners. This new business line will give the Group a strategic advantage, in Bolstered by 20 offers in 2010, Capgemini’s offers portfolio a market expected to be worth 7.8 billion dollars in 2015. was considerably enriched in 2011, with the launch of many new offers, horizontal or sectorial, often developed with its major • The business line Mobile Solutions, specializing in technology partners. Developed and piloted by a global team, company mobility. Today, mobile users count in the these offers beneﬁt from a commercial packaging and a large hundreds of millions and mobile applications downloads in marketing investment budget. The aim is to respond to market the tens of billions. It is not surprising then that, according needs at a global level by proposing solutions that are based to analysts Gartner, mobile technologies are CIOs’ second on technological innovations and replicable from one client to priority. In response to this demand, Mobile Solutions, another. “We were bold enough to go outside our ‘comfort zone’ by launched in March 2012, proposes a full range of services positioning ourselves quickly on new offers,” explains Paul Nannetti, covering all aspects of mobility. The offer will rely on a Director of Sales and Offers Portfolio. “That is what enables us to recently opened Center of Excellence in India, where stand out in today’s highly competitive and evolving markets. It will 250 team members will provide their expertise to the give us a major advantage in achieving our ambition of playing in Group’s clients. The aim is to generate revenues of more and –why not?– winning the Champions League.” than 400 million euros by 2015, in a market that analysts Forrester estimates could then be worth more than 17 billion dollars. 14 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2 A dynamic of constant enrichment to simplify their transition to a cloud computing architecture, strengthening the positioning of Capgemini in this ﬁeld. In the context of accelerating technology cycles, managing its offers portfolio with agility is a priority for Capgemini. Being one • Capgemini Consulting launched the Social Media Management of the major Group assets, the offers portfolio is dynamically (SMM) offer to complement its social media consulting services, managed with a view to favoring niches able to deliver high Social Insight into Action, in the context of digital transformation. growth and decent margins. This means launching new service Partnering with US start-up Attensity, the leading provider lines or new offers. The Group is also placing more emphasis on of text analytics solutions, the new service is offered as part developing solutions for which it holds the intellectual property of BPO contracts. It offers real-time ‘listening’ to information rights. “Our offers portfolio does not contain enough replicable circulating on the social networks. Networks such as Facebook, solutions, and we have a challenge: that of intellectual property,” Twitter and Google+ act like ‘sounding boards’. They pick up on explains Aymar de Lencquesaing, Capgemini’s Development the buzz expressing dissatisfaction. The SMM service will allow Director. “With the objective of creating profitable growth, through companies to react more effectively to information about them the multiplication of innovation and replicable solutions, an increasing on the Net, thus preserving their ‘e-reputation’, but also to use part of our offers portfolio will contain solutions based on Intellectual the feedback acquired to optimize their marketing campaigns Property. This is crucial for ensuring adequate margins.” and processes. Many offers have been launched in strong-growth areas. A few examples: Ambitious objectives for 2012 • As part of the global service line Application Lifecycle The Group has set itself an ambitious target: to generate almost Services, the Agile Legacy Lifecycle Services offer, launched two-thirds of its revenues from fast-growth, high-margin strategic in June 2011, provides companies with an exhaustive vision of offers by 2015, compared with one-third today. the costs and perimeter of their existing applications. As well as To achieve this objective, the Group is committed to managing maintenance and savings in operating costs, the aim is to help its offers portfolio in a structured manner by focusing on the them become more agile, without disrupting their business or following four themes: compromising current investments. • Identify new market segments that are ripe for innovation and • As part of the global service line Business Information investment; Management (BIM), Capgemini opened in November 2011 in Mumbai, India, a new Competency Center to support the • Take advantage of its investments and relationships with SAP-HANA applications platform. The Center, launched in strategic partners to develop new, innovative offers in niches cooperation with SAP, will beneﬁt from a high-speed platform, with fast growth and a considerable potential for margin; equipped with specially designed servers. • Enhance its teams’ skills in sectors with high value-added, • As part of the global service line Smart Energy Services (SES), while at the same time manage the slowdown in activity on the Group proposes to its clients the Smart Water Services declining markets; platform. Aimed at water utilities, this SaaS (Software as a Service) platform was launched in February 2012. It will allow • Move toward offers that integrate intellectual property, a utilities to measure the whole cycle of water consumption source of recurring revenues. economically through radio water metering systems deployed across networks. In this perspective, the Group will continue to enlarge its offers portfolio during 2012 by, for example, placing more emphasis • The SBU BPO has developed a new, particularly solid, portfolio on Business Analytics, the management and operation of the of offers in Supply Chain Management and client follow-up, with deluge of data (‘Big Data’). the launch of BPO Supply Chain Management Services and the online supply solution IBX Spend Capture Cloud. The “During 2012, where we only have limited visibility, we will be acquisition of the Order to Cash division of the US recovery attacking two particular niches: Business Analytics and Smart specialists Vengroff, Williams & Associates strengthens the Computing –end-to-end intelligence in real time. Vigorous competition Group’s BPO expertise in ﬁnancial and accounting services is encouraging us to move into a higher gear,” argues Cyril Garcia, –for which Capgemini was recognized as a global leader in this Capgemini’s Strategy and Transformation Director. sector by Gartner. • The SBU Infrastructure Services launched, in partnership with VMware, the new V2B (Virtualization to Business) range of services to help its clients beneﬁt from virtualization so as CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 15 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2 TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS • With Dassault Systèmes: integration of PLM solutions from Dassault Systèmes destined for the automotive, aeronautic, To help its clients derive full benefit from the available defense, energy and transport sectors, to help them achieve technologies in terms of their business challenges, Capgemini more rapid and efficient transformation of their industrial has created an ecosystem with major technology partners. processes. Piloted within the Group by the Global Channels and Partners (GCP) entity, the partnership strategy is organized into several levels: ﬁrst, global partnerships with the major market players CAPGEMINI: A PARTNER (HP, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP and, more recently, EMC). And RECOGNIZED BY THE MAJOR second, alliances with a dozen or so other leading partners –for INNOVATION PLAYERS THROUGH example, Salesforce.com, Intel, SAS, Teradata, Pegasystems NUMEROUS AWARDS and Amazon. One day, some of the latter are destined to become strategic partners. Finally, the Group has signed cooperation The numerous prizes awarded to Capgemini each year by agreements with regional or sectorial players. With each of its its major partners are proof of the quality of these alliances partners, the Group wishes to focus on innovation. Working with and partnerships. In 2011, Oracle presented the Group with the majority of the big names in IT and new technologies means the Specialized Global Partner of the Year Award for its Oracle Cagemini can protect its independence, an essential feature that applications, the status of Diamond Partner within its network of means a lot to the Group, because it guarantees total impartiality partners, and the Oracle Business Intelligence Foundation, Advanced when carrying consulting missions for clients. Specialization. For its part, SAP awarded the Group the Pinnacle Award 2011 for innovation and the Partner Impact Award for New agreements made in 2011 strengthened Capgemini’s links Mobility. Finally, Capgemini was named HP’s IT Application with its major strategic partners, as well marking the beginning Implementation Partner of the Year, and received two awards in of collaboration with sectorial players. These alliances help to the Converged Infrastructure Solutions and Communications, Media strengthen the Group’s expertise and enable it, in particular, & Entertainment categories. And from other partners, it is worth to develop global offers in areas such as cloud computing, mentioning the Teradata Epic Award for Collaborative Revenue management information and BPO. Contribution. Some examples of alliances and partnerships signed in 2011 and early 2012: CONTRACTS • With VMware: introduction of virtualization services called Contracts bookings in 2011 totaled 9,903 million euros, 8.4% ‘Virtualization to Business’ (V2B) enabling companies to lower than in 2010: this relative fall is explained by the strong transform their infrastructures. level of outsourcing contract renewals in the final quarter of 2010. On the other hand, IT Systems Integration, Local • With Microsoft: roll-out of the Cloud Windows Azure platform Professional Services (Sogeti) and Capgemini Consulting saw in 24 countries, so as to deliver to clients in all sectors a range of their contracts grow by 6.2% and its ‘book-to-bill’ ratio reached services and consulting on the organization, the development 112%, conﬁrmation of a dynamic market. and operation of application services in cloud computing. In the Group’s four businesses, all the Strategic Business Units (SBUs) signed major global contracts, and in all sectors of • With EMC, the global leader in storage infrastructure, a global activity. “The feedback we get from our clients confirms the relevance partnership over ﬁve years to develop a diversiﬁed offer ‘IT as of our strategy”, congratulates Paul Hermelin, Capgemini CEO. a service’ in cloud. The ﬁrst offer will be focused on Storage as “They have a clear preference for technology partners who are leaders a Service. Other offers are set to follow, including Messaging as a in key innovation areas. With shortening technology cycles, clients Service. The global market in these innovative offers, available on are looking for ever-more agile partners. In response to those needs, subscription in cloud computing, presents a formidable source of we have asserted our position as what could be termed a ‘first class’ future growth: 241 billion dollars in 2020, according to analysts innovative, global partner.” Forrester, compared with 40 billion dollars today. • With Sybase & SAP: a partnership to develop mobility solutions SOME OF THE SIGNIFICANT for companies within SAP, to be proposed as Software as a CONTRACTS SIGNED IN 2011 Service (SaaS) and Platform as a Service (PaaS). • For Capgemini Consulting, new geographic territories were • With SAP & Microsoft: a partnership for the joint development of won. One striking example is the contract with Marine Well a collaborative platform Duet® Enterprise for ERP (enterprise Containment Company (MWCC), a not-for-proﬁt organization resource planning) solutions. created by a consortium of oil companies following the Macondo incident, to implement solutions for containing oil 16 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2 wells in the Gulf of Mexico. In collaboration with Application creating a BI factory and harmonizing the Business Intelligence Services One, the SAP EnergyPath solution was deployed in systems. Capgemini’s global delivery model Rightshore ®, 90 days, enabling the MWCC to be operational in record time. designed to provide the right resources in the right place, was a decisive factor in this success. • For Sogeti, the year was marked by the signing of a major In the same domain, a three-year contract was signed in ﬁve-year testing contract with Everything Everywhere (a joint the first quarter of 2012 with Unilever, a BPO customer for company of Orange and the UK telecoms operator T-Mobile) the past five years. Capgemini will work with its client on a which chose the Group as a Strategic Testing Partner. global transformation program structured around Business Intelligence services. The program will give birth to Unilever’s • Through its SBU Infrastructure Services, in the ﬁrst quarter ﬁrst Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) to provide real-time of 2012 Capgemini signed a major contract with the US data on its global customers, markets and operations. The State of Texas for the management and transformation of IT aim of the transformation program is to ensure quicker, betterinfrastructures. The six-year contract, agreed through the US informed decisions based on consolidated and up-to-date data, subsidiary, Capgemini North America, is one of the biggest while generating substantial and permanent cost savings in deals of its kind for the Group in North America as of today. Unilever’s IT and sales operations. Under this complex, multi-sourcing contract, Capgemini will manage five key areas: data centers, mainframes, servers, • The service line Smart Energy Services (SES), the Group’ networks, and printing and email. The aim is to optimize the IT solutions for smar t energy –par ticularly the dedicated operations of 28 State of Texas administrations while reducing software platform, available as SaaS (Software as a Service) for associated costs. In the same context should be noted the metering and management of household energy consumption– major contracts signed with the Norwegian carrier Statoil won over seven major clients, out of the ten important contract Fuel & Retail. tenders in 2011. As well as a major contract with SP AusNet in Australia and one with Hydro Quebec for the installation of • The two SBUs Application Services One and Application smart meters, should be mentioned, in particular, the contract Ser vices Two contributed significantly to the Group’s with Southern California Gas for the installation of smart increased order book, mainly thanks to the success of Software meters in the US. The work will extend until end-December as a Service. Also to be noted the signing of a contract with 2013, with the first service go-live date in October 2012. Burberry, the UK fashion brand, to implement SAP HANA, Capgemini will provide support throughout the project term, as well as the Group’s handsome successes with prestigious from conception through to systems integration, testing, clients such as the UK Department for Work and Pensions, deployment and system evolution. Swedish company Ikea, or the US Levi Strauss. Finally, 2011 was marked by the renegotiation in the UK of the • For the SBU BPO, Capgemini signed a 13-year contract Aspire contract with HMRC (Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs) w i th th e B ra zilia n s e r v ic e c o m p a ny A B C A l g a r –th e –the UK tax administration– a long-standing client for which longest ever contract term in the history of BPO. The ABC Capgemini provides a range of integration and maintenance Algar conglomerate controls a constellation of companies, services, as well efﬁciency savings support. The Group signed operating in three sectors: technology & telecommunications, a ‘memorandum of understanding’ with the UK government at agribusiness and services. As part of the agreement, Capgemini the end of 2010. This conﬁrms Capgemini’s role as systems and will provide BPO services developed by a team of 150 people services integrator for the UK tax authorities until 2017, from divided across its different centers in Brazil, using Oracle and which date the UK may, if it wishes, enter into direct negotiations BPOpen® platforms. The project will include standardization of with service providers who are, at present, managed within the processes with the aim of increasing productivity by 45%, in Capgemini contract. Moreover, The Group remains a key partner addition to improving quality and ﬂexibility of services to keep of the entire UK public sector, with a number of projects currently up with Algar’s expected growth. Following the 2010 acquisition underway. of CPM Braxis, Capgemini has a delivery network of 1,000 BPO specialists in Brazil, who proved to be a key factor in winning the contract. EXTERNAL GROWTH: ACQUISITIONS IN 2011 • Within the service line Business Intelligence Management (BIM) two signiﬁcant contracts were signed: New entrants are constantly changing the nature of the market: The year 2011 saw the Group’s German subsidiary winning a in the world of IT, the most promising niche is not the one you major ﬁve-year contract with Deutsche Telekom, one of the already know, but the one that has not yet been identiﬁed, and world’s leading telecommunications companies. The contract it is often in a related area. The key word is ‘anticipate’. As well is to consolidate the IT services of Telekom Deutschland GmbH, as winning market share, the Group’s main objectives are to the company’s operating entity in Germany. The aim is to acquire know-how that it does not already have, or skills that reduce in-house IT support for business intelligence, notably by complement its own, to consolidate its geographic or sectorial CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 17 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2 ‘historic’ positions, and to become established in countries or in niches, either where it does not already have a presence, or The Prosodie acquisition: a key component only a very small one. of the Group’s growth strategy Capgemini’s acquisitions strategy favors targeted acquisitions A n o p e r a to r of m u l t ic h a n n e l t r a n s a c t i o n a l f l o w aimed at strengthening its presence in markets or niches able to management, Prosodie specializes in customer relation; deliver proﬁtable growth. The Group wants to carry out mediumit provides hosting services for vocal servers, operation sized operations, especially to develop its activity in emerging of prepayment cards systems (for example, loyalty cards countries, but also to acquire small companies involved in future and gift cards), multi-channel and mobile services, website businesses such as cloud computing, Business Intelligence or hosting, outsourcing and securitized payments. The SaaS-type services. “We are not looking to acquire market share company uses its proprietary solutions to market an endwith a view to rationalizing our costs,” explains Paul Hermelin, to-end control service in SaaS. At the heart of the digital Capgemini CEO. “Rather, we want to enhance our offer by targeting economy, Prosodie is uniquely positioned in France and small or medium-sized acquisitions, accelerators of time and profitable in Europe thanks to its expertise in the converging areas growth. Some operations enable us to change the way in which we of IT and telecoms. Prosodie counts 860 team members work, for example, Prosodie in transactional services, which then and boasts a strong R&D department. It is present in becomes a determining form of client relationship. Other operations see France, Spain and Belgium, with most of its business in us moving into market segments and certain geographic zones we find France as of now, especially in the financial and public interesting because of their dynamism, and are accelerating factors.” sectors from where it draws 55% of its revenues. Within Capgemini, Prosodie should be able to continue to expand With this in mind, the Group made further progress in 2011 internationally, especially in countries where the Group has with the acquisition strategy known as the ‘string of pearls’, a strong client portfolio. This acquisition allows Capgemini which started in 2010. It made eight acquisitions, representing to extend its activities beyond usual business toward a new more than 300 million euros in combined annual revenues. The business model based on proprietary solutions invoiced on external growth strategy objective was, therefore, achieved: for a pay-as-you-go basis. the ﬁnancial year, growth brought by acquisitions represented half of Capgemini’s total growth –6.7% out of a total 11.4%. For Paul Hermelin: “This acquisition fits perfectly with a major aspect of our growth strategy: we want to develop in the highAcquisitions in 2011 included companies in France, Germany, value-added world of ‘solutions’. At a time when services are Italy, the US and China. They enhanced the Group’s offers and becoming personalized and dematerialized, linking up with skills in BPO, Infrastructure Services, Business Information a leader in transactional solutions and benefiting from the Management (BIM) and Business Process Management (BPM). know-how of its 860 team members is a major advantage for They also played a role in the development of new business us. This is especially true as we and Prosodie share a belief models, involving new types of client contracts. that technological innovation goes hand-in-hand with business innovation.” In France, three acquisitions were carried out, on fast-growth markets and within the context of new business models around innovative technologies with a promising future. The • In China, the acquisition of Praxis Technology builds on largest in terms of size was Prosodie (see Box). The Group Capgemini’s strengths in one of the world’s most dynamic also acquired Artesys, one of the leaders in France in IT markets. An IT services company specializing in utilities, infrastructure design. This acquisition reinforces the Group’s Praxis Technologies is a SAP partner providing management SBU Infrastructure Services, enabling it to cover the entire consulting, ERP (enterprise resource planning) implementation, infrastructure lifecycle, from design and implementation, and applications and software development services for the through to cloud computing. Finally, the acquisition of Avantias biggest Chinese utilities, especially electricity producers. With will allow the Group to reinforce the global service line Business solutions that are standard-bearers in the marketplace, Praxis Information Management (BIM). Avantias provides major Technology greatly strengthens the Group’s capacities in the companies with Enterprise Content Management (ECM). This key utilities sector. It will enable it to offer the largest utility makes it possible for them to derive value from their huge store clients a complete service range, covering the entire lifecycle of digital documentation, including ofﬁce papers, emails, digital of a SAP implementation, and incorporating the most recent documents, images, and technical materials, etc. SAP technologies. It is worthwhile noting that, in the case of China, Smart Energy projects top the list of national priorities, a factor that should spur IT services investments in the coming years, and be an important growth potential. 18 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2 • In the United States, the acquisition of BI Consulting Group THE CHALLENGES OF ACCELERATION (BICG), a specialist in IT systems integration for BI and performance management, reinforces the Group’s position in Business Intelligence management. BICG’s delivery of The challenge of digital transformation more than 300 Oracle BI (Business Intelligence) and EPM (Enterprise Performance Management) projects will be an Digital technologies have a growing role to play at all company asset in the Group’s development of offers in the global service levels and functions. However, as a growth potential they are still line Business Information Management (BIM). Furthermore, not being fully exploited, and companies risk being overtaken the acquisition of VWA –the order-to-cash division of the US by their more innovative competitors. Thanks to changes in IT Vengroff, Williams & Associates –sees Capgemini adding to technologies, companies could simultaneously benefit from its ﬁnancing and accounting services, by offering cutting-edge two advantages which, up to now, were incompatible: the recovery services to its North American clients. ‘striking force’ of large organizations –economies of scale– and the human richness of micro-structures –freedom, • In Germany, Capgemini acquired the IT services company CS ﬂexibility, creativity and motivation. Getting the best from these Consulting GmbH, a specialist in the migration of core banking new possibilities is not an easy task: it is not enough to think in systems and the implementation of business intelligence terms of technologies, but rather to rethink the strategies and solutions. With more than 400 consultants, CS Consulting is in objectives one wants to achieve and the right procedures to put the top-25 companies of IT consulting and system integration in place. In this approach, companies need the support of digital providers in Germany. One of the main actors in the banking transformation experts. “We are on the threshold of a period of and insurance sectors, the company is recognized for its knowprofound transformations in the organization of work and companies. how in the implementation of complex development projects, This shift will be as important as that which led from monarchies to and large-scale applications maintenance. This strategic democracies,” believes Thomas W. Malone, MIT professor and operation will enable the Group to double its market share in researcher. “Despite the enthusiasm that innovative technologies such IT services for local banking clients, reinforcing its presence in as social networks or mobile devices generate, most companies could a promising German market currently undergoing large-scale still improve their progress towards digital transformation. The key to a transformation. successful digital transformation lies, above all, in a company reshaping its business operations. So the challenge is not just technical: above all it • In Italy, the acquisition of the IT services company AIVE Group, is managerial and human,” adds Andrew McAfee, MIT professor and an Italian leader in the sector, will ﬂesh out the Group’s SaaS co-author of the Digital Transformation report (see Box). applications service offer. Wherever there is intelligence… In 2011, Capgemini continued to grow in most European countries, both in revenue terms and in operating margin. North America has become the most profitable region, with an operating margin of 8.8%. In 2011, the Group made two targeted acquisitions in North America. It aims to continue growing the share of its revenues in that region (currently 20%) to match the region’s weight in the global IT market (35%). In anticipation of uncertain economic conditions in Europe and the United States, Capgemini has also decided to turn its attention to new horizons. It focuses on Asia and South America, in particular Brazil and China, chosen because they are dynamic economies and contain ‘reservoirs’ of local talent. Already, in both countries two recent acquisitions are enabling Capgemini to serve local markets, and multinational companies that are present. “Capgemini will go wherever there is intelligence, and to all countries where intelligence is produced,” conﬁdes Paul Hermelin, Capgemini CEO. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 19 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2 OPENING THE RIGHT PATHS FOR A Digital Transformation: a standard-setting report WORLD OF ACCELERATING CHANGE “To govern is to foresee…” An integral part of Capgemini’s Capgemini and the MIT Center for Digital Business are mission is to help company managers anticipate by interpreting partners in a three-year research program into digital key trends on their behalf. Alongside its consulting activities transformation. The program’s first repor t, D ig ital for businesses and governments, Capgemini invests in order Transformation: A Roadmap for Billion-Dollar Organizations, to understand the key trends that are driving the economic was published in November, 2011 and has drawn much environment. The Group publishes more than a dozen studies comment. The report analyzes the context, the challenges every year, each highly regarded. Sectorial or cross-disciplinary, and the stumbling blocks in digital transformation, and these annual studies cover a vast range of topics, ranging from highlights a number of key success factors. In interviews digitization to mergers & acquisitions. They are mainly carried with 157 senior executives from leading international out at an international level, in collaboration with the most companies, it emerges that only a third has an effective renowned partners. They provide relevant and sometimes digital transformation program in place. unexpected insights. And by opening up the right paths, they Most companies are not still taking advantage of digital help company leaders take the right direction in rising to the technologies, particularly for increasing productivity, challenges of a faster-changing world. improving the customer experience, or encouraging greater collaboration within the organization. Some companies are still considering the coming change as a threat. Companies with a digital transformation program, usually adopted under competitive pressure, come up against difﬁculties, mainly because of a lack of skills, their culture or even the complexity of their IT systems. “Transformation has to be as much about organizations as about technologies. While many business leaders are convinced by the benefits of digital initiatives, thanks to this study we have discovered that the key to success lies, above all, in having a strategic vision and a coherent transformation program,” insists Patrick Ferraris of Capgemini Consulting and co-author of the report. The report evaluates companies’ digital transformation maturity from two aspects: ﬁrst, in analyzing the nature of their digital development, particularly in terms of customer experience and operating processes; and second, by studying the way companies carry out their transformation in relation to governance, change management and results measurement. “The alchemy of digital transformation is based on these two aspects. Companies who are able to master, not only the method but also the content of their digital transformation are able to derive value,” conﬁrms George Westerman, research director at MIT and co-author of the report. 20 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2 The main studies published by Capgemini in 2011 Date Title Title January World Insurance Report 2011 EFMA Future Value Chain 2020 (consumer markets) February Government Benchmark Report 2011 March Application Landscape Report 2011 Transportation Management Report 2011 Global Supply Chain Agenda 2011 May World Retail Banking Report Unicredit, EFMA Vision & Reality Report 2011 (Life Sciences) Platts/Capgemini Utilities Executive Study (Energy) Platts June World Wealth Report 2011 World Quality Report 2011-2012 September World Payments Report 2011 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group EFMA October European Observatory for Energy Markets Cars Online 2011-2012 • In the automotive sector, Cars Online 2011-2012 highlights bank, in spite of their lack of conﬁdence in the banking sector major trends reflecting changes in society: use of the Web generally. Online banking is becoming more popular, yet most and social networks when buying a vehicle; the emergence people still view their branch as a key contact point, although of smartphone applications as information and interaction its role must change in response to new customer needs. channels; the importance of after-sales; the emergence of The World Wealth Report 2011, published with Merrill Lynch different form of automotive consumption, with increased Global Wealth Management, shows that, in 2010, the Asia‘green’ awareness; the desire for new kinds of vehicles, smaller, Paciﬁc region posted the highest growth in terms of number with better quality and increased proximity; shorter buying of millionaires and the size of their wealth. The region now cycles. The study provides manufacturers with six guidelines counts 3.3 million very wealthy people (+9.7%) compared for adapting their business model to market trends. with 3.1 million in Europe (+6.3%). According to the study, to respond to the ever-more complex expectations of this • Targeted at logistics functions, Supply Chain Agenda 2011 group of individuals, wealth management companies must is an annual global study carried out in collaboration with supply a wider range of better integrated services, across a company leaders from various industries across Europe, multi-business approach. North America, Asia-Pacific and South America. The study sets out to understand the current challenges facing Supply • In applications testing and quality, the World Quality Report Chain Managers. It shows that they are worried by volatile 2011-2012, is the third in a series of annual reports published global demand, an unstable environment, and increased by Capgemini, Sogeti and HP on trends in software quality, costs of materials and services. The study suggests a number methodologies, tools and processes. Based on a global survey of possible avenues to overcome these: greater visibility of 1,200 managers in companies of various sizes, this multiand responsiveness in the supply chain, process redesign, sectorial report shows that adoption of cloud computing is innovation, and better long-term forecasting and planning leading to increased demand from companies for applications capabilities. testing and quality assurance. Agility, considered a vital quality criterion for applications, requires rationalization • In the ﬁnancial sector: and modernization of applications portfolios, as well as the The 2011 edition of the World Retail Banking Report, migration of part of IT systems toward cloud computing. produced in collaboration with UniCredit and the European Companies need quality assurance and rigorous tests, Financial Management Association (EFMA), introduces applications security becoming crucial to guarantee quality the Capgemini Retail Banking Customer Experience Index and risk control. This trend is particularly acute in emerging (CEI) for measuring customer satisfaction. The report shows economies, where decisions to move to cloud computing that the majority of customers are satisﬁed with their own infrastructures are taken very quickly. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 21 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 2011, a year of innovation and expansion 2 The major energy challenges In the energy sector, the European Energy Markets Observatory (EEMO) produces a well-regarded annual report. It aims at tracking the main indicators in the electricity and gas markets, monitoring the balance between supply and demand, measuring progress toward an open and competitive market in the EU27 (plus Norway and Switzerland) and, finally, observing the evolution of indicators in the fight against climate change by 2020. After the Fukushima accident, the 13th edition was eagerly anticipated. It highlighted several major facts: • Despite the accident, nuclear energy will continue to develop –even though some governments decided to reduce their use of nuclear energy, and the nuclear regulatory authorities initiated stress tests on all existing and future installations. Furthermore, implementation of the tests caused extra delays in the delivery of new projects. • I n th is c o n tex t , g row i n g e n e r g y c o n s u m pti o n i n emerging countries, nuclear energy decisions taken by some countries, as well as a slowdown in energy infrastructures investment by utilities, will have the following consequences: • A reduction in supply security: investments of 1.1 trillion euros will be needed within the EU between now and 2020 to guarantee energy supplies; this could be under threat if the regulatory authorities and governments do not introduce incentives, • An increase in greenhouse gas emissions, • Higher energy prices. In the short term, an economic slowdown could mitigate these consequences, given reduced demand for electricity and gas. 22 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Main Group subsidiaries and simpliﬁed organization chart 2.5 Main Group subsidiaries and 2 simpliﬁed organization chart MAIN GROUP SUBSIDIARIES The Group per forms its business activities through 135 • the entire share capital of a real estate limited liability company, consolidated subsidiaries as listed in Note 30, List of the main “Les Fontaines”, which holds a real estate leasing contract consolidated companies by country, to the consolidated ﬁnancial allocated to the Group’s University located in Gouvieux, 40 km statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 (page 173). (25 miles) north of Paris, which opened at the beginning of 2003; The Group’s policy is not to own its business premises. • the entire share capital of Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S, which Consequently, the Group’s sole real estate assets at December 31, operates the campus housing the Group’s international training 2011 consisted of a building, held by S.C.I. Paris Etoile, where center; Cap Gemini S.A.’s headquarters are located, the Group’s • the entire share capital of Capgemini Université S.A.S, which University in Gouvieux, and approximately one-third of the operates the Group’s University; ofﬁce space used by the Group in India. The vast majority of the • the entire capital of an inter-company service company known Group’s subsidiaries rent their business premises from thirdas Capgemini Service S.A.S. party lessors. There is no relationship between these lessors and the Group and its senior executive management. The parent company, Cap Gemini S.A., defines the strategic objectives of the Group via its Board of Directors, and ensures In addition to its operating subsidiaries held directly or indirectly their implementation. In its role as a shareholder, Cap Gemini via regional holding companies, Cap Gemini S.A. holds: S.A. contributes, in particular, to the ﬁnancing of its subsidiaries, • a 99.99% stake in S.C.I. Paris Etoile, which owns a building either in the form of equity or loans. Finally, it allows its located in Paris (Place de l’Etoile, 75017 Paris), which it rents subsidiaries to use the trademarks and methodologies that it out to Cap Gemini S.A. and Capgemini Service S.A.S.; owns, notably “Deliver”, and receives royalties in this respect. SIMPLIFIED ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE GROUP The Group comprises six Strategic Business Units (SBUs): In addition to these six Strategic Business Units, the Group • 4 global strategic business units: has three units dedicated to the operational development of Consulting new regions (China, Latin America) and New Business Models Infrastructure Services, i.e. the design, installation and (including Prosodie). maintenance of client infrastructures BPO (business process outsourcing) The Group is also present in around 40 countries, which are in Local Professional Ser vices, provided by the SOGETI turn grouped into eight geographic areas: sub-group and its subsidiaries • North America: USA, Canada • 2 systems integration and applicative maintenance strategic • the United Kingdom and Ireland business units in the following regions and countries: • France, to which Morocco is associated Application Services One: North America, United Kingdom • Benelux and the Asia-Paciﬁc region (excluding China), including global • Nordic countries: Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland responsibility for the Financial Services sector • Germany and Central European countries: Switzerland, Application Services Two: France, Benelux, the Nordic Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary. countries, Germany and Central Europe and Southern Europe. • Southern Europe (Italy, Spain, Portugal) and Latin America: Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Chile. • and finally the Asia/Pacific region: India, China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 23 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Main Group subsidiaries and simpliﬁed organization chart 2 The organization chart of the main Group subsidiaries (regional holding companies, operating, support and resource companies) directly or indirectly wholly owned by Cap Gemini S.A., with the exception of CPM Braxis S.A. (held 61.10%), is presented below: 24 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP The Group’s investment policy 2.6 The Group’s investment policy 2 Following the resumption of the Group’s external growth contributed expertise in infrastructure transformation and policy in 2010, Capgemini continued its targeted acquisition enabled Capgemini to enhance its expertise in France and cover strategy in 2011 performing a number of transactions around the entire lifecycle of infrastructures from design to operation the world. These acquisitions satisﬁed strategic criteria which and the adoption of cloud computing type models. have enabled Capgemini to extend its presence in the sectors identiﬁed as growth drivers (“Top Lines Initiatives”) and to enrich The acquisition of the Order to Cash (OTC) business of the US our business portfolio with companies possessing innovative company, Vengroff, Williams & Associates, enabled the Group business models. Finally, the Group strengthened and even to strengthen its Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) activity expanded its international coverage through acquisitions in and in particular its Finance & Accounting component. ﬁve different countries (France, United States, China, Germany and Italy). This acquisition is a prime example of the small niche companies offering both growth and proﬁtability that the Group is looking The largest transaction performed by the Group in 2011 was to acquire. the acquisition of Prosodie, a French multi-channel services operator. This transaction enabled Capgemini to complete its Capgemini also per formed a number of acquisitions to service offering by entering the –extremely buoyant– customer strengthen its market position in key sectors, such as the relations solutions market. This acquisition strengthened the acquisition of the German company, CS Consulting, and the Group’s growth strategy in the New Business Models (NBM) Italian company, AIVE, in the ﬁnancial services sector. sector, which seeks to develop a range of proprietary solutions to complement existing services. Finally, Capgemini continued to extend its global coverage with the acquisition of the high performing Chinese company, Together with the French company, Avantias and the US Praxis Technology, a Beijing-based specialist provider of IT and company, BICG, the Group also performed a number of targeted consulting services to the Utilities sector. acquisitions in the Business Information Management (BIM) global service line, which seeks to manage and valorize the Capgemini will continue its external growth policy in 2012 information wealth of organizations and make it serve their driven by the goal of always satisfying the Group’s ambitions strategic objectives. in terms of geographical coverage and the development of the technology portfolio. These acquisitions will be possible thanks Another acquisition served the development strategy of to the Group’s very solid ﬁnancial position, which they should another global service line, Infrastructure Transformation not comprise. Services (ITS). The acquisition of the French company, Artesys, CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 25 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Risk analysis 2 2.7 Risk analysis IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS Contract performance is monitored using Group-defined management and control procedures, and complex projects are Group Management has discussed, drafted, approved and subject to dedicated control processes. Internal Audit checks that distributed a set of rules and procedures known as the Blue project management and control procedures are properly applied. Book. Compliance with the Blue Book is mandatory for all Group Expert teams may also intervene at the request of the Group’s employees. The Blue Book restates and explains Capgemini’s Production, Methods and Support department to audit projects seven core values, sketches out the overall security framework that have a high risk proﬁle or that are experiencing difﬁculties. within which the Group’s activities must be conducted, and, ﬁnally, describes the methods to be followed in order to exercise Despite the formal approval procedure for all client project the necessary degree of control over the risks identiﬁed in each commitments under taken by the Group, in some cases, of the Group’s main functions. difﬁculties with respect to project performance and/or project costs may have been underestimated at the outset. This may Individual business units supplement and adapt the Blue Book result in cost overruns not covered by additional revenues, by drawing up detailed internal control procedures which comply especially in the case of ﬁxed-price contracts (which make up with the relevant laws, regulations and customary practices in approximately half of the Group’s business) or reduced revenues the country where they operate, in order to exercise control without any corresponding reduction in expense in the case of more effectively over risks specific to their local market and certain outsourcing contracts where there is a commitment to culture. provide a certain level of service. Despite the stringent control procedures that the Group applies These rules and procedures are updated regularly to reﬂect the in the project performance phase, it is impossible to guarantee development of the Group’s business activities and changes in that all risks have been contained and eliminated. In particular, its environment. human error, omissions, and infringement of internal or external regulations or legislation that are not, or cannot be identiﬁed in The Internal audit function independently assesses the time, may cause damage for which the Company is held liable effectiveness of these internal control procedures given that, and/ or may tarnish its reputation. irrespective of how well they are drafted and how stringently they are applied, these procedures can only provide reasonable Reputation assurance –and not an absolute guarantee– against all risks. Intense media coverage of any difficulties encountered, especially on large-scale or sensitive projects, could negatively impact the Group’s image and credibility in the eyes of its clients, RISKS RELATED TO OPERATIONS and by extension, its ability to maintain or develop certain activities. Capgemini is a service provider, and as such, the main risks to When dealing with third parties and clients, the behavior of team which the Group is exposed are (i) failure to deliver the services members may be inconsistent with our principles (values, work to which it has committed; (ii) failure to deliver services within methods, etc.) and could even present a danger to the company the contractual timeframe and to the required level of quality; if contrary to ethics or legislation. or (iii) infringement, notably through human error, of obligations Finally, internet users could make negative comments in open liable to affect the operations of a client or third party. forums (Twitter, Facebook, etc.) on Capemini’s performance, service offers or human resource policy, thereby tarnishing the Risks concerning project performance Group’s reputation. Contracts are subject to a formal approval procedure prior to signature, involving a legal review and an assessment of the Employees risks relating to the project and to the terms of performance. The vast majority of the Group’s value is founded on its human The authority level at which the contract is approved depends capital and its ability to attract, train and retain employees with on the size, complexity and risk proﬁle of the project. The Group the technical expertise necessary to the performance of client Review Board examines the projects with the most substantial projects to which it has committed. In particular, this requires a commercial opportunities or speciﬁc risk exposures, as well as strong reputation in the employment market and ensuring fair proposals for strategic alliances. appraisal and promotion procedures as well the professional development of our employees. Capgemini has developed a unified set of methods known as The Group pays close attention to internal communication, the “Deliver” methodology to ensure that all client projects are diversity, equal opportunity and good working conditions. Group performed to the highest standards. Project managers are given Management has published a Code of Business Ethics and speciﬁc training to develop their skills and acquire the appropriate oversees its application. Nevertheless, in the event of an industrial level of certiﬁcation for the complexity of projects assigned to dispute or non-compliance with local regulations and/ or ethical them. The Group also has a pro-active policy of seeking external standards, the Group’s reputation and results could be adversely certiﬁcation (CCM, ISO, etc.) for its production sites. affected. 26 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Risk analysis 2 Sending employees to countries which are geopolitically unstable Clients may expose the Group to risks regarding the physical safety of Capgemini serves a large client base, in a wide variety of sectors these employees. Economic instability and poorly controlled and countries, limiting the risk of dependency on a given sector growth can also be a source of risk for the company’s performance and/or market. The Group’s biggest clients are multinationals and and reputation. The risk of natural disasters in certain countries public bodies (see 3.4 Our stakeholders, Our clients page 56). where we are present, political instability and even terrorist attacks and similar risks in countries where we may be called Suppliers and sub-contractors on to work in response to client requirements, could impact Capgemini is dependent upon certain suppliers, especially the physical safety of our employees. Economic uncertainty in in its Technology Services businesses. While alternative a poorly controlled environment generates many other risks solutions exist for most software and networks, the failure (galloping inflation, poorly adapted infrastructures, unstable of a supplier to deliver specific technolog y or exper tise ﬁscal and social environment, etc.) which could impact our overall could have prejudicial consequences for certain projects. economic performance. (see 3.4 Our stakeholders, Our suppliers and business partners page 57). Figures concerning, in particular, the attrition rate, the utilization The bankruptcy of a suppler, its takeover by a competitor (and rate, changes in headcount (including in offshore countries), a change in its current service offer/product range) or a change career management, the development of expertise and building in its sales model, such as the use of Cloud Computing for IT employee loyalty are presented in the Section “Corporate Social services, could generate additional risks. Responsibility and Sustainability”, Section 3.3 “Human Resources” Finally, the poor management of expenditure incurred with a (pages 40 and seq.). third party, budget overruns, the use of unapproved suppliers and purchases that do not comply with equipment strategic Information systems decisions, can also generate risks. Capgemini’s operations have little dependency on its own information systems. The systems used to publish the Group’s Country risks consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise a speciﬁc risk in Capgemini has permanent operations in approximately view of the strict reporting deadlines. The Group is aware of the 40 countries. The bulk of its revenues is generated in Europe and importance of internal communication network security, and North America, which are economically and politically stable. protects its networks via security rules and ﬁrewalls. It also has an established IT security policy. For some projects or clients, An increasing portion of its production is based in emerging enhanced systems and network protection is provided on a countries, and primarily India, which now represents contractually agreed basis. approximately 30% of the Group’s total headcount. Consequently, Capgemini is now more exposed to the risk of natural disasters in Offshoring South East Asia and Latin America, political instability in certain Capgemini’s evolving production model, Rightshore®, involves regions of India and adjoining countries, and even terrorist attacks. transferring a portion of the Group’s production of part of its From an economic standpoint, the Group is also exposed to risks services to sites or countries other than those in which the stemming from the negative effects of insufﬁciently controlled services are used or in which the Group’s clients are located growth (wage inﬂation, which is particularly rife in the IT sector, and particularly India, Poland, China, Asia and Latin America. inadequate domestic infrastructure and higher taxes). The development of this model has made the Group more Strict approval criteria must be met before employees are reliant on telecommunications networks, which may increase sent to work in countries where there are no existing Group the risk of business interruption at a given production site operations, and even stricter criteria apply in the event that due to an incident or a natural disaster, in so far as several employees are sent to countries considered “at risk”. operational units could be affected simultaneously. The use of a large number of production sites increases the range of External growth contingency options available to the Group. External growth transactions, one of the cornerstones of the Group’s development strategy, also contain an element of risk. Environment Integrating any newly-acquired company or activity, particularly As an intellectual service provider, Capgemini’s activities have in the service sector, may prove to be a longer and more difﬁcult a moderate impact on the environment compared with other process than predicted. The success of an external growth economic activities. Nonetheless, despite being considered transaction largely depends on the extent to which the Group immaterial due to the nature of its business, the Group strives to is able to retain key managers and employees, maintain the limit its environmental footprint as part of its overall corporate client base intact, coordinate development strategy effectively, citizen approach. especially from an operating and commercial perspective, and dovetail and/or integrate information systems and internal procedures. Unforeseen problems can generate higher integration costs and/or lower savings or synergies than initially CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 27 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Risk analysis 2 forecast. If a material unidentiﬁed liability subsequently comes Litigation risk to light, the value of the assets acquired may turn out to be lower than their acquisition cost. (see Note 12 to Capgemini’s Having developed a vast network of contractual relationships, Consolidated ﬁnancial statements page 142). the Group is not immune from legal action. There are no governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings, Economic conditions including any proceedings of which the Group is aware, that are The Group’s growth and financial results may be adversely pending or liable to arise, which are likely to have or have had in affected by a general downturn in the IT service sector or in the last 12 months a material impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial one of Capgemini’s other key business segments. A shake-up position or proﬁtability other than those that are recognized in resulting in a change of ownership at one of Capgemini’s clients the ﬁnancial statements or disclosed in the notes thereto. or a decision not to renew a long-term contract may have a (see Note 21 to Capgemini’s Consolidated ﬁnancial statements negative effect on revenue streams and require cost-cutting or page 162). headcount reduction measures in the operational units affected. FINANCIAL RISKS LEGAL RISKS Detailed information concerning these risks is provided in Notes While the Group’s activities are not generally regulated, certain 9, 17 and 19 to Capgemini’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements in of our clients sometimes require us to comply with regulations this Reference Document. imposed on them, or in rare cases, make us comply with another regulation. Equity risk Contractual risk The Group does not hold any shares for ﬁnancial investment purposes, and does not have any interests in listed companies. The acceptance of unfavorable conditions, such as unlimited However, it holds treasury shares acquired under its share liability in certain circumstances, comprises a risk. Contractual buyback program. risks may notably arise when the Group’s liability for failing to fulﬁll certain obligations is unlimited, when there is no liability protection clause in relation to services affecting health and Credit and counterparty risk safety or the environment, and when the rights of third parties are not respected. Financial assets which could expose the Group to a credit or counterparty risk mainly relate to financial investments and accounts receivable. The hedging agreements entered into Compliance with legislation with ﬁnancial institutions pursuant to its policy for managing currency and interest rate risks also exposes the Group to credit The Group is a multinational company operating in several and counterparty risk. countries and providing services to clients who, in turn, operate around the world and are subject to numerous and constantly changing laws and regulations. Liquidity risk The sheer diversity of local legislation and regulations, which are constantly changing, exposes the Group to a risk of infringement The ﬁnancial liabilities whose early repayment could expose the of such legislation and regulations by under-informed employees Group to liquidity risk are mainly the two convertible bonds and especially those working in countries that have a different the November 2011 bond issue. culture to their own –and to the risk of indiscretion or fraud committed by employees. As stringent as they may be, the legal precautions taken by the Group both at a contractual and an Interest rate risk operational level to protect its activities or to ensure adherence by employees to internal rules can only provide reasonable The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk must be considered in assurance and never an absolute guarantee against such risks. light of its cash position. The signiﬁcant liquidity at its disposal is generally invested at ﬂoating rates, while the Group’s debt –primarily comprising bond issues– is mainly at ﬁxed rates. 28 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Risk analysis 2 Currency risk out-of-court settlement of claims, without exposing the Group as a whole to signiﬁcant ﬁnancial risk. The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk that could impact earnings and equity: risks arising in connection with the Commercial general liability and professional indemnity consolidation process on the translation of the foreign currency This type of coverage, which is very important to clients, is taken accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency out and managed centrally at Group level. Cap Gemini S.A. is not the euro, and currency risks arising on operating and and all subsidiaries over which it exercises direct or indirect ﬁnancial cash ﬂows which are not denominated in the entities’ control of more than 50% are insured against the financial functional currency. The growing use of offshore production consequences of commercial general liability or professional centers in Poland, India, China and Vietnam exposes Capgemini indemnity arising from their activities, under an integrated to currency risk with respect to some of its production costs. global program involving a range of lines contracted with a Capgemini is also exposed to the risk of exchange rate number of highly reputable leading insurers. The terms and ﬂuctuations in respect of inter-company ﬁnancing transactions conditions of this program, including limits of coverage, are and fees paid to the Group by subsidiaries whose functional periodically reviewed and adjusted to reflect changes in the currency is not the euro. Group’s activities, the position on insurance markets and risk exposures. The primary layer of this program, totaling €30 million, is Employee-related liabilities reinsured through a consolidated reinsurance subsidiary which has been in operation for several years. Capgemini’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements may be impacted by provisions for pensions covering funded defined benefit Property damage and business interruption plans, which are also subject to volatility. Furthermore, the The Group has implemented a worldwide integrated property Group could be faced with calls for funds from trustees to damage and business interruption insurance program covering make-up pension fund shortfalls, over a short or long time all of its subsidiaries worldwide. Its policy is to rent rather than period, potentially deteriorating its ﬁnancial position. to buy its business premises, and consequently it owns little property. Capgemini’s business premises are located in a wide The main risk factors are fluctuations in interest rates and variety of countries, and the Group operates at multiple sites financial markets and life expectancy. The value of pension in most of them. The Group has approximately 500 sites with obligations is calculated based on actuarial assumptions and an average surface area of 2,500 square meters. Some of particularly interest rates, inﬂation rates and life expectancy. the Group’s consultants work off-site at client premises. This Pension plan assets, which are invested in different categories of geographical dispersion limits risk, in particular the risk of loss assets (including equities), are managed by the trustees of each due to business interruption, arising from an incident at a site. fund and are subject to market risk. Under these conditions, The Group’s largest site, which is located in India, employs some plan assets may be less than pension obligations, reﬂecting a 7,000 people in a number of different buildings. No building at funding shortfall or deﬁcit. Changes over time in assets and/ any of the Group’s sites houses more than 2,600 employees. or liabilities are not necessarily in the same direction and are eminently volatile and can increase or decrease the funding Other risks asset/liability or the deﬁcit in proﬁt or loss. Nonetheless, the Travel assistance and repatriation coverage for employees potential economic impact of these changes must be assessed working outside their home countries, and crime and ﬁ delity over the midand long-term in line with the timescale of the coverage (especially for information systems) are managed Group’s pension commitments. centrally at Group level via global insurance policies. All other risks –including motor vehicle, transport and employer liability– are insured locally using policies that reﬂect local regulations. INSURANCE The Group has decided not to insure against employment The Group Insurance Manager is part of the Group Finance practice liability risks, given its preventive approach in this area. department and is responsible for all non-life insurance issues. Pollution risks are low in an intellectual services business, and Life insurance issues, which are closely related to employee Capgemini is not insured against these risks in any countries compensation packages, are managed by the human resources in which it operates. The Group has also decided that, unless departments in each country. coverage is compulsory and readily available, it is not necessary to systematically insure against terrorism-related risks. Certain Group policy is to adjust insurance coverage to the replacement risks are excluded from coverage under the general conditions value of insured assets, or in the case of liability insurance, to an imposed by the insurance market. estimate of speciﬁc, reasonably conceivable risks in the sector in which it operates. Deductibles are set so as to encourage operational unit managers to commit to risk prevention and CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 29 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Cap Gemini S.A. and the stock market 2 2.8 Cap Gemini S.A. and the stock market At December 31, 2011, the share capital of Cap Gemini S.A. Cap Gemini shares are included in the CAC 40 and the Euronext comprised 155,770,362 shares (ISIN code: FR0000125338). 100 indexes and the Dow Jones Stoxx and Dow Jones Euro Cap Gemini shares are listed on the “Euronext Paris” market Stoxxx. Between Januar y 1 and December 31, 2011, the (compar tment A) and are eligible for the SRD deferred Cap Gemini share price on “Euronext Paris” fell from €35.895 settlement system of the Paris Stock Exchange. to €24.145. CAP GEMINI S.A. SHARE OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 (based on a shareholder survey) Non-French French Board members Individual institutional institutional and Group Treasury shares shareholders investors investors employees 53.4% 29.5% 7.0% 8.7% 1.4% CAP GEMINI S.A. Capgemini Capgemini Sogeti Consulting Consulting Services Technology Services Local Professional Services Outsourcing Services 30 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Cap Gemini S.A. and the stock market Stock market capitalization 2 From January 2010 to March 2012 In billions of euros Source: Bloomberg Share performance From December 31, 2009 CAP GEMINI VS CAC40 & STOXX EUROPE 600 to March 31, 2012 In euros Source: Reuters Number of trades per month 45 From January 2010 to March 2012 In millions of shares 40 35 30 25 20 Source: Bloomberg 15 J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 31 2. INTRODUCTION TO THE CAPGEMINI GROUP Cap Gemini S.A. and the stock market 2 Share price and trading volume The following table presents an analysis of trading in the Company’s shares over the last 24 months: Share price Trading volume (in euros) Number of shares Value Number of trading average Month days high average low total (daily) (millions of euros) April 10 20 40.300 37.982 35.680 32,236,386 1,611,819 1,254.0 May 10 21 40.265 37.444 34.875 40,489,850 1,928,088 1,567.1 June 10 22 39.790 38.140 36.130 33,249,672 1,511,349 1,307.0 July 10 22 37.750 35.655 33.870 29,954,505 1,361,568 1,129.2 August 10 22 37.930 35.363 32.975 18,720,169 850,917 674.8 September 10 22 37.420 36.199 33.165 22,588,390 1,026,745 834.5 October 10 21 38.645 37.449 36.370 21,131,876 1,006,280 803.9 November 10 22 37.750 34.380 32.255 32,487,9 1 7 1,476,724 1,1 16.6 December 10 23 35.910 34.554 32.320 19,834,456 862,368 679.5 January 11 21 37.995 36.296 34.020 25,910,260 1,233,822 936.3 February 11 20 43.385 40.321 36.690 28,241,416 1,412,071 1,143.7 March 11 23 43.285 40.798 37.650 26,701,250 1,160,924 1,084.4 April 11 19 41.920 41.193 40.185 1 7,614,638 927,086 725.6 May 11 22 42.035 40.269 38.410 21,987,998 999,454 890.8 June 11 22 40.650 38.297 36.930 23,244,209 1,056,555 888.9 July 11 21 41.105 38.398 33.945 24,565,135 1,169,768 923.1 August 11 23 35.015 28.870 25.700 37,381,516 1,625,283 1,081.4 September 11 22 28.285 25.175 22.545 27,868,496 1,266,750 701.0 October 11 21 29.490 26.648 21.980 24,103,558 1,147,788 634.5 November 11 22 28.920 26.699 24.165 24,373,839 1,107,902 651.2 December 11 21 28.190 25.512 23.665 16,1 1 1 ,732 767,225 410.7 January 12 22 28.595 26.255 24.035 18,798,849 854,493 489.1 February 12 21 33.230 30.740 27.925 21,867,590 1,041,314 670.9 March 12 22 34.500 33.398 31.445 18,582,046 844,638 628.3 Source: Bloomberg Dividends paid by Cap Gemini Distribution of dividends Number of shares Dividend per share Year ended December 31 In millions In % of net income 2007 €145 33% 145,425,510 1.00 euro 2008 €146 33% 145,844,938 1.00 euro 2009 €123 69% 154,177,396 0.80 euro 2010 €156 56% 155,770,362 1.00 euro 201 1 €156 39% 155,770,362 *1.00 euro * Recommended dividend submitted to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 32 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY 33 3.1 Our commitment and strategy 35 3.2 Ethics 38 3.3 Our people 40 3.4 Our stakeholders 56 3.5 The Group and the environment 62 3.6 GRI correlation table 66 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 33 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY 3 For Capgemini, the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility Group introduced an anti-corruption policy, to reassert its values (CSR) & Sustainability must extend beyond legal compliance in every country it operates in. and philanthropy. Hence our focus has been on embedding At the October 2010 Rencontres in Barcelona, CEO Paul Hermelin them into our business strategy, our processes and our ways of called for the Group to show its passion and energy as well as working. They are no longer specialist or peripheral activities but its intellectual capability. He referred to this “ﬁghting spirit” as rather a real requirement for all organizations. These principles, “la niaque”. This calls for a culture that reﬂects our values and grounded in our shared values, have been encapsulated in our history, respects our people, acknowledges performance, and Code of Business Ethics and guide our relationships with our inspires drive and ambition. In 2010, Capgemini launched a new stakeholders and the communities and environment in which brand tagline to reﬂect this culture: People matter, results count we operate. (alongside a new advertising campaign). Our Ethics & Compliance Program was launched in 2009 This approach to C SR & Sus t ainabilit y contrib utes to by the Group Board of Directors. This program is based on Capgemini’s potential to succeed and achieve this ambition. the culture of ethics which has been a core part of the Group The Ethics & Compliance program contributes to attracting, since its creation in 1967. As part of this program, a Code of developing and retaining the best people. The annual employee Business Ethics was launched in 2010 and a network of Ethics survey clearly showed that the employees’ commitment was and Compliance Ofﬁcers was set up. Since 2010, all new recruits ﬁrst and foremost related to belonging to a Group with a strong undertake to comply with the principles of the Code of Business ethical culture. Both strengthen our reputation, helping us to Ethics and follow e-learning tuition on the Code. In 2011, the win business and to take our place in the “Champions League.” 34 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our commitment and strategy 3.1 Our commitment and strategy 3 Capgemini is committed to responsible and sustainable partners to bring added value to our clients, and expect our business practices, delivering value to its stakeholders, which partners to strictly comply with the law. include customers, shareholders, investors, business partners, 6. Environment. Recognizing our impact on the environment. suppliers, employees, the community, and the environment. In We strive to measure our carbon footprint and reduce any 2004, the Group joined the UN Global Compact. The member negative environmental impact from the Group’s business companies of this program support and respect ten principles activities. These include: greenhouse gas emissions; energy in the areas of Human Rights, environment, labor rights and consumption in our ofﬁces, data centers and business travel; the ﬁght against corruption. As a basic rule, the Group respects waste created by our operations; and our procurement the national and local laws and regulations in the countries it activities. We endeavor to raise employee awareness on the operates in while supporting international laws and regulations, critical issues of sustainable development. in particular the International Labor Organization fundamental conventions on labor rights. In 2007, Capgemini signed up to the More information on the Group’s six pillars can be found in our UN Global Compact Caring for Climate initiative and in 2011, the CSR & Sustainability report: “The Other Face of Capgemini”. Women’s empowerment principles. http://www.capgemini.com/about/corporateresponsibility// Our CSR & Sustainability priorities are based on six pillars, Our approach to the six issues is to provide global top-down which underpin all aspects of our business. For each of these leadership and strategic vision, and to ensure we create the right pillars, we have identified the key aspects that are essential environment for our people to be able to apply their creativity, to our business, aspects on which we can act and which are experience and expertise individually to developing innovative and important to our stakeholders. We have set objectives for each effective solutions adapted to their areas of work and inﬂuence. pillar in order to improve our internal reporting processes and monitor our performance. OUR VALUES 1. Leadership, Values & Ethics. The way we work and behave. We embrace the core values of Honesty, Boldness, Trust, Since the creation of the Group in 1967, our culture and Freedom, Team Spirit/Solidarity, Modesty and Fun. Our business practices have been inspired and guided by our seven rigorous Code of Business Ethics and anti-corruption policy core values. These principles drive us as a Group and also as underpin all of our business practices. individuals. They are at the heart of our approach as an ethical 2. Our people and the workplace. We are committed to being and responsible company. a responsible employer whom people choose to work for and who allows them to deliver their best. Our focus is on the These values are more than just rules of behavior: they provide professional development and well-being of all our employees the basis for our ethical approach and our principles. From them, by ensuring, in particular, that both our business practices we have carved out our ethical and sustainability culture: they and our facilities comply with safety regulations. We have are the Group’s DNA. They demonstrate our belief in integrity a culture whereby we respect and value the diversity of and ethical behavior. our people as individuals. At Capgemini, being treated and Our values are important in respecting, defending and upholding treating others with respect and courtesy is a right and a duty the Group as an ethical and responsible business and in for everyone. We believe that effective communication is a protecting our reputation. prerequisite for an open and inclusive culture. 3. Clients. Collaborating with our clients. We undertake to The first value is H o n e s t y, denoting integrit y, loyalt y, understand their real business needs and we are dedicated uprightness, and a complete refusal to use any underhand to delivering proﬁtable and sustainable growth by working method to help win business or gain any kind of advantage. together with our clients to deliver value through our expertise Growth, profit and independence have no real worth unless and behavior. We take customer dialogue and feedback won through complete honesty and probity. Everyone in the very seriously. We also look to embed CSR & Sustainability Group should know that, once proven, any lack of openness considerations, notably Green IT, into our service offerings. and integrity in business dealings will be penalized immediately. 4. Communities. Ensuring a positive impact on the communities in which we live and operate. As a major global employer, we Boldness implies a ﬂair for entrepreneurship, a desire to take work on national and international levels with local authorities considered risks and to show commitment (clearly linked to and associations on dif ferent themes. We encourage a firm determination to uphold one’s commitments). This the active involvement of our employees in community value is the very essence of competitiveness: making firm development. decisions and seeing them through to implementation, and 5. Suppliers & Partners. We are committed to following reliable being willing to periodically challenge one’s direction and the and sustainable procurement procedures with our suppliers. status quo. Boldness needs to be combined with a certain level We expect our suppliers to fully comply with the laws in the of prudence and a particular clear-sightedness, without which countries in which they operate and we work with business a bold manager can become reckless. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 35 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our commitment and strategy 3 Trust means the willingness to empower both individuals and All parts of the business in every country must embed these teams; to make decisions as close as possible to the point where policies, procedures and guidelines, as a minimum, in their they will be put into practice. Trust also means favoring openlocal policies, procedures and guidelines while at the same mindedness as well as widespread idea and information sharing. time adhering to any local legal requirements or specificities. Compliance with these guidelines forms a part of our Internal Freedom indicates independence in thought, judgment and Audit Process. The Group Blue Book is reviewed on a regular basis deed, entrepreneurial spirit and creativity. It also means and updated to reﬂect changes and increased focus on our CSR & tolerance, respect for others and for different cultures and Sustainability. Its update in early 2012 has allowed us to integrate customs: essential qualities for an international Group. our Code of Business Ethics and reinforce Group governance. Solidarity and Team Spirit cover the concepts of friendship, loyalty, generosity and fairness in sharing the rewards of HOW DO WE MEASURE UP? teamwork. This value encourages the taking of responsibility and spontaneous participation in group efforts, even in the most Analyst measurement of CSR & Sustainability performance is difﬁcult circumstances. taken seriously by Capgemini. We also welcome measurement by respected third parties. The Global Analyst Relations Team Modesty signifies simplicity, the very opposite of affectation, builds relationships with key market analysts and provides pretension, pomposity, arrogance and boastfulness. Simplicity does them with information on Capgemini’s capabilities. It also not imply naivety; it is more about being discreet, showing natural communicates to our personnel the opinion these analysts modesty and common sense, being attentive to others and taking have on our society. The Group cooperates with several external the trouble to be understood by them. It is about being frank in work ratings agencies that evaluate the performance of companies relationships, loosening up, and having a sense of humor. in terms of social, environmental and corporate responsibility. This gives us a clearer vision and evaluation of our achievements, Finally, Fun, means feeling good about being part of the Group targets and priorities in each area. or of one’s team, being proud of what one does, experiencing a sense of accomplishment in the search for better quality and greater efﬁciency, and feeling part of a challenging project. Analysts and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) GROUP FUNDAMENTALS, GUIDELINES A repor t by Verdantix, an independent analysis agency, AND POLICIES: THE BLUE BOOK identiﬁed Capgemini as a “Specialist” supplier of sustainable technology services. The Green Quadrant Matrix methodology In our largely decentralized and entrepreneurial organization, it is a comparison, which characterizes market alternatives for is essential to have a set of common guidelines, procedures and buyers of a product or service. Capgemini was compared with policies, which govern our daily operation. The Blue Book, so 14 other suppliers of sustainable technology services using called because it is blue in color, was therefore created in 1989 as a 49 weighted criteria under the categories of capabilities and managers’ rulebook; accessible to all employees on the intranet, it market momentum. Companies in the Specialist quadrant are provides the overarching common framework for every employee characterized by in-depth capabilities in focused technology and every part of the business to work effectively. areas, broad portfolios of emerging sustainable technology services and internal sustainability programs. Capgemini was The “Blue Book” contains: rated “Best in class” by Verdantix for data center efﬁciency, with • Group fundamentals: Group mission & expertise, fundamental the following citation: “through their Merlin data center, [they] have objectives, values, Code of Business Ethics, and rules of developed one of the World’s most sustainable and energy effi cient behavior; data centers”. • Group governance and organization; In its 2012 Green Quadrant® Sustainable Technology Services • authorization processes; report, Verdantix acknowledged our expertise in smart metering • sales and delivery rules and guidelines; and noted “Capgemini wins Best in Class for its state of the art • business risk management, pricing, contracting and legal expertise in smart metering with the installation of more than requirements; 15.7 million meters and the maintenance of 1.7 million meters in • ﬁnance, mergers, acquisitions, disposals, and insurance rules Europe and North America”. and guidelines; This year, once again, we are listed in the FTSE4Good index • human resources policies; and rank amongst Newsweek magazine’s top 250 “Green” • communications, knowledge management and Group IT; companies. This ranking’s top companies were chosen • procurement policies, including ethical purchasing and supplier from amongst thousands of companies for their positive selection; environmental impact and their management in this area. • environmental policies. 36 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our commitment and strategy 3 Capgemini UK was also awarded Platinum status in Business Carbon disclosure project in the Community’s (BitC) CSR index. BitC, the UK’s leading Capgemini again took part in the Carbon Disclosure Project voluntary benchmarker for corporate responsibility in the UK, (CDP) in 2011, providing information on our Carbon Footprint, measures the way sustainability practices have been integrated linked to the greenhouse gas emissions coming from our ofﬁces, across businesses and the impact of these measures on society. our data centers, our travel and hotel usage in addition to climate The index published by BitC which lists responsible corporate change management strategy statements. practices, enables UK businesses to assess their performance and compare it with that of their peers. The objective is for them to continually improve their impact on society and the environment through best practices. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 37 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Ethics 3 3.2 Ethics OUR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PROGRAM IN 2011 Grounded in our shared values and ethics, principles of CSR & Sustainability guide all our relationships with stakeholders, and the communities and environment in which we operate. Of our Creation of the Code of Business Ethics six pillars, the Leadership, values and Ethics pillar ranks among the most important. The Capgemini group’s “DNA”, our seven core values are the The Capgemini Group has forged its reputation in the market basis of our constant commitment to maintain and promote through longstanding values and principles, which have been business integrity standards and trust wherever we operate. continually applied. Today this reputation is a genuine asset, The Code of Business Ethics, which encapsulates those values, essential to our proﬁtability and growth. was finalized in 2010 and is now available in 13 languages. It received the collective and individual support of the members To protect this reputation and to strengthen its competitive of the Board, the Group Executive Committee and the Group advantage in doing so, in 2009 the Group launched an Ethics & Vice-President community. Compliance Program and built a network of Ethics & Compliance Ofﬁcers across the Group. Capgemini expects all Group employees to adhere to the core seven values and to the principles expressed in its Code of Business Ethics encompassing: OBJECTIVES OF THE ETHICS • to respect any international, national and local laws and & COMPLIANCE PROGRAM regulations applicable; • to apply any health and safety rules and contribute to a safe The objectives of the program are to: and inclusive work environment; • Develop a sustainable ethical culture, which reinforces integrity • as a basic rule, to act responsibly in the marketplace by and leads to ethical behavior; complying with any competition laws and regulations and anti• Strengthen knowledge and awareness of international and corruption rules applicable, by avoiding conﬂicts of interests national laws and internal policies applicable in the Group’s and insider trading, and by providing accurate and correct companies; and business and ﬁnancial information; • Implement initiatives reinforcing prevention and aiming at • to build honest and clear relationships with clients, alliance or avoiding misconduct and breaches in the ﬁeld of ethics and other business partners, and suppliers; compliance. • to maintain the security and integrity of the assets of the Group and of any third parties we work with; • to support the communities and respect the environment in ETHICS & COMPLIANCE which we operate; and ORGANIZATION AND NETWORK • to refuse the use of forced labor and child labors. The managers of the Group and its entities (SBU/BU) are accountable in their respective Unit(s) for ethics, and compliance with the applicable laws and regulations and procedures. They Distribution of the Code of Business Ethics are also accountable for achieving the Ethics & Compliance program. Upon publication in 2010, a hard copy of the Code of Business Ethics in English was sent, together with a letter from the CEO, The Chief Ethics & Compliance Ofﬁcer (CECO) is responsible to all Vice-Presidents (approximately 1,200 people at the time for the Ethics & Compliance program for the entire Group. The of publication) for signature. Ethics & Compliance program and its achievements are reviewed annually by the Group Ethics and Governance Committee of the At end 2011, more than 40,000 employees had already Board of Directors. downloaded the C ode of B usines s Ethics, available in 13 languages, and 40,000 had followed the related e-learning General Counsels have also been appointed as Ethics & module, available in 4 languages. Compliance Officers (CG ECO). They are responsible for the All new employees must agree to the principles set out in the Ethics & Compliance program within the geography under their Code of Business Ethics and complete an e-learning module responsibility, and liaise with the CECO. on the Code. 38 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Ethics 3 Group anti-corruption regulations Dedicated procedure for requesting advice and guidance and for whistle-blowing 2011 the Group distributed a specific policy concerning the prevention of corruption. At the end of the year, more than The Code of Business Ethics speciﬁes that anyone faced with a 27,000 employees had already downloaded this policy, available question or issue involving ethics or compliance has to discuss in 8 languages, and 27,000 had followed the e-learning module, this ﬁrst with his/her local management team. However there is available in 4 languages. This represented more than 22% of the Raising Concern Procedure (RCP) which allows employees to the Group’s employees at end 2011. All new employees must obtain advice and guidance on ethics and compliance issues and agree to the principles set out in the anti-corruption policy and behavior. Under this procedure employees can seek advice and complete an e-learning module on the policy. guidance from the local General Counsel Ethics & Compliance Ofﬁcer (GC-ECO) and/or in a few speciﬁc cases directly from the Chief Ethics & Compliance Ofﬁcer (CECO): Group regulations on competition law • competition law, suspicion of corruption, etc., • or if the issue is not resolved by the management, A speciﬁc policy regarding competition law is being developed. • or if the employee is not comfortable discussing the matter It will be supported by an e-learning module. This work is being with the management team, undertaken in collaboration with the Group’s Legal Department. • or if there are no other procedures for dealing with individual The policy will be distributed in 2012. grievances and complaints. The RCP is currently in operation on a case-by-case basis in the countries where the Group operates, in accordance with the applicable legislation. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 39 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 3.3 Our people HUMAN RESOURCES PRIORITIES STRONG ORGANIC AND EXTERNAL Our Group Human Resources (HR) priorities focus principally HEADCOUNT GROWTH on the following areas: The development of the Group workforce over the last ten years is a reflection of the economic cycles that have affected the • Career development: Consulting and Technology sectors. The strong organic growth Managing employee skills development in order to adapt of the late 1990s coupled with the takeover of Ernst & Young skills to technological change and the Company’s business Consulting in 2000 meant that the Group headcount more objectives; than doubled in ﬁve years. Moreover, this period was marked Managing our talent while taking career aspirations into by sustained demand for Consulting and Technology services consideration; due to the oncoming Y2K, the introduction of the euro and B e i n g o p e n w i t h e m p l oye e s re g a rd i n g t h e i r c a re e r development of the Internet. development, using our skills models; Offering a wide range of training to employees to facilitate During the next three years, the investment slowdown in their professional development; the information technology sector led to the downsizing of Favoring the mobility of talent at local and global levels. our workforce, under the effect of two factors: on the one hand, deterioration of the economic environment due to the • Leadership Talent Pool: emergence of major international crises, culminating in the Applying our New Leader Proﬁle to all processes relating to World Trade Center attack on September 11, 2001 and the war managers; against Iraq; on the other hand, the explosion of the Internet Creating management-speciﬁc training opportunities; bubble, Implementing a shared tool for managing the performance evaluation process of our managers. 2004 was marked by a return to growth of the workforce, mainly as a result of staff transfers (over 5,300 people were • Group University: transferred upon signature of two large outsourcing contracts, Availability of regional programs (the University has a notably the Aspire contract in the United Kingdom). This growth presence on three continents: at Les Fontaines in France, continued, with a doubling of the workforce between 2004 Hyderabad in India and Chicago in North America); and 2011 as a result of acquisitions (notably Kanbay in 2007, Accelerating our efforts to provide virtual training programs BAS in 2008 and CPM Braxis in 2010) and strong organic and e-learning modules; growth, in particular in offshore countries (India, Poland, Latin Adapting training programs to new technologies, customer America, China and Morocco). While the economic crisis of requirements and employee needs. 2008 resulted in a clear slowdown in the rate of hirings and led in 2009 –something unique in the last decade– to a reduction • Recruitment in line with changes in new technologies and in the workforce. However, the return to recruitment seen in late including: 2009 accelerated through 2010 and 2011. The Group passed Diversity: the milestone of 100,000 employees in September 2010 and • Managing gender diversity in the recruitment and promotion had around 120,000 employees by the end of 2011, a marked processes, increase of its workforce compared with 2010: more than 11,000 • Continuing our policy regarding the employment of people employees (+10.1%) over the year, including 3,090 employees with a disability, from company acquisitions and transfers. Although headcount • Reﬂecting the characteristics of our local communities. growth was largely carried out in the BRIC countries, growth was Strengthening our partnerships with major business schools also seen in Western countries in 2010 and 2011. and universities worldwide to facilitate the integration of young graduates. The size of this growth was a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the Group’s transformation. The workforce more than doubled in a decade, • HR Service Delivery: with an increase of 127% — or nearly 67,000 people — mainly Developing Employee Self-Service (ESS) to support increased in offshore countries but was also seen in the Group’s historical mobility and virtual working; accelerating HR BPO, leveraging markets. shared services to deliver high-touch and quality HR services to our people; Improving mobility policies, training and services with a strong focus on employee travel safety. 40 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 Year Average headcount End-of-year headcount Number Change Number Change 2002 54,882 8.4% 52,683 8.8% 2003 49,805 9.3% 55,576* 5.5% 2004 57,387 15.2% 59,324 6.7% 2005 59,734 4.1% 61,036 2.9% 2006 64,013 7.2% 67,889 11.2% 2007 79,213 23.7% 83,508 23.0% 2008 86,495 9.2% 91,621 9.7% 2009 90,238 4.3% 90,516 -1.2% 2010 97,571 8.1% 108,698 20.1% 201 1 1 14,354 17.2% 1 1 9,707 10.1% *48,304 excluding the Transiciel contribution, incorporated only on December 31. The acquisitions of Kanbay, BAS B.V. and CPM Braxis, strong in particular, continued to appreciably modify the geographical organic growth notably in Asia and Latin America, and the dis tribution of Group personnel. This development is economic crisis that affected continental Europe and the USA summarized in the table below: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2011 Numbers % Numbers % Numbers % North America 7,950 8.8% 8,667 8.0% 9,505 7.9% United Kingdom & Ireland 7,844 8.7% 8,515 7.8% 8,977 7.5% Nordic countries 3,681 4.1% 4,012 3.7% 4,538 3.8% Benelux 11,163 12.3% 10,782 9.9% 10,391 8.7% Germany and Central Europe 7,724 8.5% 7,929 7.3% 8,962 7.5% France and Morocco 20,032 22.1% 20,277 18.7% 21,738 18.2% Southern Europe and Latin America 8,114 9.0% 14,853 13.7% 16,499 13.8% Asia-Pacific 24,008 26.5% 33,664 31.0% 39,097 32.6% TOTAL 90,516 100% 108,698 100% 119,707 100% The calculation of numbers of employees in any one country excludes offshore staff carrying out operations destined for that country. The above development reﬂects: • The Netherlands was the main country to see its headcount • The ongoing adaptation of delivery capabilities to our fall in 2011. The United Kingdom’s workforce declined in 2008 Rightshore® model, combining local resources (in the client’s (mainly due to the reduced scope of the Aspire contract, area) with the resources situated in specialized production although the contract term was extended in compensation), centers, the balance depending on the technology or the offering stabilized in 2009, and then saw a return to growth in the last concerned. This resulted in the signiﬁcant increase seen in the two years despite the impact of the economic crisis. Asia-Paciﬁc headcount (notably India), which now comprises nearly one third of the Group’s resources (compared with 12.1% • In France headcount rose by nearly 7% over the year, due in in 2006 and less than 5% in 2004). part to the acquisition of several businesses (Artesys, Avantias This country saw very signiﬁcant growth in recent years with and Prosodie in late 2011), although its relative weight has headcount rising from slightly under 2,000 people in 2004 to decreased because of the increase in headcount in BRIC more than 35,700 in 2011. countries. Similarly, Poland had fewer than 500 employees in 2004 but by end-2011 the headcount totaled more than 4,500. Against a still uncertain economic backdrop for 2011, the Group Lastly, the Group has been growing in Latin America (Argentina, hired more than 32,700 people, which is an all-time Group Chile, Brazil and Guatemala) since 2007. With the buyout of CPM record. Braxis in Q4 2010, the region had more than 9,100 employees at end-2011, including more than 7,000 in Brazil. This brings it close to the Group’s size in the United State. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 41 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 Acquisitions Attrition Hires transfers 2002 11.1% 2002 3,801 2,035 2003 10.2% 2003 4,724 8,032 2004 14.1% 2004 9,285 5,363 2005 15.4% 2005 14,453 712 2006 16.6% 2006 18,592 1,495 2007 19.7% 2007 24,814 7,569 2008 17.2% 2008 22,526 3,358 2009 10.4% 2009 13,072 543 2010 16.3% 2010 30,139 7,579 2011 18.1% 2011 32,713 3,158 AVERAGE 17,412 3,985 The number of voluntary departures was therefore signiﬁcantly higher in 2011 than in 2010, at nearly 20,700. These movements reﬂect a classical pattern in the Consulting Services and Systems This dynamic was not felt in the same way across all geographic Integration businesses: a contraction is seen in this indicator when regions and countries, with offshore countries contributing the market offers reduced visibility as was experienced in 2009, strongly to recruitment numbers and being responsible for half with a return to professional mobility when the market is more of all recruitment in 2011. India, where 38% of recruitment took buoyant. These statistics are carefully monitored to ensure that place, saw headcount grow organically by nearly 5,000 people attrition remains in line with industry norms and that appropriate in 2011, representing 44% of the Group’s growth. Although the response initiatives are developed to suit the needs of each diversification of offshore recruitment resulted in the Polish business line and geographical area. The dynamism of the Indian workforce expanding considerably in 2008, it was Latin America IT Services market was reﬂected in the attrition rate there which, which recorded a high percentage of recruitments and strong following a relatively low level in 2009, rose to 23.7% in 2010 before rise in headcount in 2010 and 2011. China also recorded a sharp stabilizing at 21% in 2011. upswing in 2011. The resource utilization rate — which measures the share of As a result of this economic recovery, the attrition rate (the working hours (excluding legal holidays or leave) worked by percentage of voluntary departures) stabilized: it stabilized at productive salaried personnel — directly allocated to billable 18.1% over the year, higher than in 2010. This rate is, however, services. Following a rise in 2010, this stabilized in 2011 for all three below the last decade’s peak rate, which was 19.7% in 2007. businesses: Consulting Services, Technology Services and Local Professional Services. 2010 2011 Quarterly utilization rates Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Consulting Services 71 71 67 66 68 70 66 68 Technology Services 80 79 78 79 79 78 80 81 Local Professional Services 81 83 83 83 82 83 84 83 Note: utilization rates are not monitored for Outsourcing BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY LENGTH Services, for which this indicator is not representative of OF SERVICE: 2009-2011 CHANGES changes to performance. The coverage interval for the data below is 97% of year-end headcount (including CPM Braxis data). Changes for average Since 2003, the Group has measured and monitored the length of service reﬂect the Group recruitment policy over the last changes in indicators designed to ﬁne-tune the demographics few years. The high percentage of employees with an average level of its workforce structure. These indicators include average of service of less than three years (51% of the headcount) is clearly seniority, average age and gender breakdown. An in-house tool due to the high level of recruitment over the last two years. The large has been developed to obtain a coherent view (specifying the number of recent recruits has therefore automatically reduced the percentage population covered) of the Capgemini population percentage of employees with more than ﬁve or ten years’ service. and its changes on a monthly basis. It should be noted that it is the date of recruitment by the acquired company, and not the date of integration into Capgemini, which 42 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 is taken into consideration for the purpose of calculating length BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY GENDER: of service. 2009-2011 CHANGES Average length of service in the Company is down 0.4 years The coverage interval for the data below is 95.8% of year-end compared with 2010 at 4.5 years, due to the high number of headcount (including CPM Braxis data). The percentage of recruitments in 2010 and 2011. This varies according to the females in the workforce continued to rise in 2011, increasing geographical area, ranging from just over 1.7 years for India to by one point over 2010 to reach 27.5% of the headcount at more than 9 years in the Benelux countries. year end. This improvement was mainly due to strong growth 40% in previous years of BPO which is a business sector with a dec-11 strong proportion of females (50%). This increase in female 35% dec-10 employees was recorded although BPO has recently developed dec-09 in countries where the male/female ratio is 76/24 (especially in 30% India), and despite the expansion in business sectors (Services 25% Infrastructure) where there are fewer females in the workforce. Nevertheless, in several geographic regions the percentage of 20% females is increasing at constant scope. In 58% of countries the percentage has risen, with India (+1.3 points) and Guatemala 15% being particularly noteworthy. Thanks to the strong development 10% of BPO, which allowed a high proportion of women joining the Group, countries including Poland, China, Brazil (excluding 5% CPM), Romania and Chile showed a percentage of women in the workforce exceeding 50%. Conversely, the percentage is 0% less than 25% in seven countries covering 73% of the workforce analyzed, including India, France, Benelux, Argentina, United BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY AGE: 2009-2011 Kingdom and USA. The overall gender breakdown is a reﬂection CHANGES of the information technology sector as a whole, which tends The coverage interval for the data below is 96.6% of year-end to attract engineering graduates who are predominantly male. headcount (including CPM Braxis data). The average age of Consulting Services, however, is a more diversified market, employees decreased in 2011 to 34.5 years compared with with a more balanced 62/38 ratio, and showed a one point 35.1 years in 2010. This reduction was due to strong growth in the improvement over the year. hiring of young graduates, who accounted for 42% of recruitment in 2011. The percentage of employees aged less than 35 years 80% dec-11 rose by 0.9 points over the previous year to 59.6%, it stands at the highest level since 2003. This rise was due in full to the 70% dec-10 increase in the number of employees aged under 25 years. The dec-09 60% share of employees in the 35 to 44 age group fell by 0.7 points, and dropped in the over 45 group, albeit to a lesser extent, by only 50% 0.2 points. However, the proportion of employees aged 55 years and above rose slightly, reflecting the increase in the average 40% retirement age, notably in Western countries. Average age is 30% lowest in India, at 29.3 years, whilst in the United Kingdom, the Nordic countries and Benelux the average age is above 40 years. 20% 10% 50% dec-11 0% dec-10 40% dec-09 Monitoring is carried out at the Group level to better assess and understand the situation of women within the Group, in 30% compliance with applicable legislation, i.e. the percentage of females recruited, leaving and promoted. 20% T his sh owe d that female s rep re sente d 2 9.7% of tot al recruitments (rate of coverage of 90.7% in 2011 and 92.2% in 10% 2010), being 3.2 points higher than the percentage of females in the workforce at end-2010 and which explains the rise in the percentage of women in the workforce at end-2011. 0% CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 43 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 2010 2011 Nevertheless, the turnover rate for females was marginally % of % of higher (at equivalent scope to hires) than for the total population Recruits female female and increased slightly faster, moving from 15.9% to 18.3% North America 23.3% 28.4% (+2.4 points) while the overall turnover rate rose by just 1.9 points UK & Ireland 28.0% 24.0% during the same period. Nordic countries 26.9% 32.9% 2010 2011 Benelux 20.9% 20.5% % of % of Germany and Central Europe 45.2% 45.8% Turnover female female France and Morocco 20.9% 22.3% North America 15.2% 12.6% Southern Europe and Latin America 40.6% 41.1% UK & Ireland 11.0% 9.6% Asia-Pacific 26.6% 27.7% Nordic countries 15.6% 18.2% Benelux 8.7% 13.9% TOTAL 28.1% 29.7% Germany and 17.4% 23.6% Central Europe France and Morocco 8.2% 13.0% Southern Europe and Latin America 14.2% 17.3% Asia-Pacific 24.8% 23.6% TOTAL 15.9% 18.3% PROPORTION OF WOMEN IN TOP EXECUTIVE POSITIONS PER OPERATING UNIT The proportion of women in top executive positions had increased at December 31, 2011: 25 20 15 10 5 0 44 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 Following a decline in the proportion of females in the highest WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY executive grades in 2010, this indicator has returned to growth CATEGORY: 2010-2011 CHANGES of 0.3 points in 2011, but nevertheless remains lower than the The Company’s workforce breaks down into three broad total percentage of females, all grades combined, within the categories: Company. The ongoing growth of Group headcount in countries • Client Serving Staff (CSS).These employees ensure that our with a low percentage of female engineers takes its toll on the services with clients are managed correctly and make up the overall percentage (although the proportion of women engineers majority of the Group’s workforce. Their percentage within the in these countries is higher than the market average). workforce has steadily increased to 91.6% at end-2011; At the end of 2011, 18.2% of employees who had been promoted • Dedicated Sales People (DSP).These employees make up to the role of “Vice-President” were female, a percentage which the sales team and are responsible for sales and customer has risen by more than 2 points compared with the previous relations management across the full product portfolio. The year. We have a clear picture of our pool of women’s talent size of this team is stable and as a proportion of the workforce from the talent reviews conducted throughout the Group which it is therefore declining; range from interviews with the Group CEO of the most talented • Dedicated Support Staff (DSS).These employees carry out employees to reviews which take place at the Business Unit level. administrative support functions. In addition, all Business Units are asked to ensure that they build a female management talent pool. CSS DSP DSS Determined to increase visibility in order to acquire a better gender-balanced Vice-President community, we are also leveraging local leadership through continuing education and mentoring by senior executives. The largest countries within the Group have women’s councils and networks in place with a focus on recruitment, retention, leadership and communication. In addition to the historical indicators set out above, and in the framework of New Economic Regulations in France, the Group now includes new indicators which appear to be more pertinent to its business, such as the breakdown of workforce by working time, category and ﬁxed working hours, described below. 2009 2010 2011 WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN OF PART-TIME WORKFORCE: 2010-2011 CHANGES The coverage interval for the below data is 94.2% of yearend headcount. The number of part-time employees in the Group decreased by 0.3 points compared with 2010, to 4.6% of the headcount in 2011. The ﬁgures show signiﬁcant variation between regions: part-time working is most widespread in the Benelux countries, followed by the United Kingdom & Ireland, with 15.5% (18% in the Netherlands) and 9.1% respectively. Conversely, part-time working is not widespread in India and Latin America which, given the importance of these regions in terms of recruitment, explains the overall drop in this indicator. In France, 5.2% or approximately 1,000 people work on a parttime basis. This ﬁgure has remained relatively stable over the last three years. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 45 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 20 2011 2010 15 10 5 0 WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF FIXED WORKING HOURS IN 2011 HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT A study of fixed working hours in the Group showed a wide variation between the regions. This study covered 91.6% of the Personalized career management workforce at year end. France, which represented 19% of the total workforce, was singled out with a 35-hour working week. The competency model More than two thirds of our employees have a 40-hour working Employees’ professional development is supported by a week. This is mainly the case in Europe (excluding the United Global Competency Model (GCM), which forms the basis for Kingdom, Finland and Denmark, where it is generally around 37 performance appraisals and personal career advancement. hours), North America and India, where the Group offers a more Rooted in shared values, the GCM is tailored to take into account attractive 40-hour week, although the legal maximum working the speciﬁc needs of each of the Group’s businesses, increasing week is 48 hours. South American countries vary from a base understanding of the competencies of employees across the of 44 hours per week in Guatemala, Brazil and Chile to 48 hours business through a common framework. in Argentina. Each Competency Model is based on several competency dimensions that deﬁne what is expected from an employee (Core Skills, Delivery, People Development, Business Development and Thought Leadership). The values Trust, Honesty, Freedom, Modesty, Boldness, Team Spirit and Fun permeate and inﬂuence all aspects of competency and contribute to the human relations culture prevalent throughout the Group. Each Competency Model embeds its role-based competencies and corresponding Global Core Curriculum (GCC: Global Core Curriculum). The aim is to provide each employee with the right training module enabling the appropriate career development. Personal development and appraisals A key challenge for a services company such as Capgemini is to guarantee a consistent and transparent process of individual 35 h 36 h => 39 h 40 h 41 h => 47 h 48 h performance assessment based on a set of clearly deﬁned and explained criteria. By establishing a clear framework to guide the appraisal process, the company can ensure the professional development and promotion of all employees and respect for equal opportunities. 46 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 The Performance and Development process is driven by regular sets out expectations and competency descriptions for each meetings between the employee and the evaluator, conducted grade which are used for setting objectives, evaluation and in relation to assignments. The mentoring system has been set preparing for promotion. The development priority areas of the up in a number of entities to allow employees to beneﬁt from competency dimensions differ for each grade, giving guidance an outside view and career management advice from more on where employees should focus. experienced colleagues throughout their careers. The GCM WORKFORCE PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES HAVING HAD A PERFORMANCE AND CAREER REVIEW IN 2011 The coverage interval for the data below is 94.2% of year-end than others in this area, such as Europe, where the ﬁgure is close headcount (including CPM Braxis data). to 100% (with the exception of the Benelux countries where In 2011, 91% of the workforce concerned had undergone an coverage is weakest at 84%). India and Latin America are close annual performance review. Some regions are further ahead to the Group level. Mobility Geographical mobility, whether at country or international level, For professionals involved in overseas assignments or is supported by the Group and often corresponds to a request considering an international career, useful information is by the employee. We continue to note a significant increase provided on the Group intranet sites together with relevant in cross-border assignments and travel across the globe as a rules and procedures. The coverage interval for the data below is result of both internationalization combined with our delivery 83% of year-end headcount. In 2011 more than 24,400 business model. In order to ensure the physical safety of its employees, trips were made outside the normal country of work, of which travel to potentially high-risk countries is subject to strict rules 39% originated in India. The main destinations for these foreign and must be approved in advance. If trouble breaks out in a trips were North America (13%), France (10%) and the United country where the Group’s employees are present, Capgemini’s Kingdom (8%). repatriation procedure provides speciﬁc insurance to limit as far as possible the risks faced by its people. Speciﬁc training courses and advice are provided by its international mobilitysupport service provider. In 2010, speciﬁc e-learning training for low-risk countries was launched; over the year 2011, some 8,000 employees completed relevant modules in employee travel security. A geo-localization tool has also been set up to identify where our employees are located at any time, in case of emergency. Prior to departure, they are also given travel alerts, including cultural tips and customs. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 47 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 Countries of origin Investing in learning and development Poland Finland Australia General learning policy 3% 2% 1% The value of a consulting and IT services company lies in the USA Others quality of its intellectual capital. In an industry characterized 3% 5% by rapid technological change and changing patterns of work: Sweden It is essential for employees to keep their knowledge and skills 5% India up-to-date and in line with client and market needs. Likewise, 39% new staff joining the Group are keen to leverage and build on their knowledge and to gain rewarding professional experience. Netherlands Personalized development plans are therefore designed during 5% Germany annual performance interviews and reviewed at least once a 15% year. Furthermore, operating units undertake a systematic and France UK iterative review of the capabilities required for their businesses 8% 14% and their training portfolios, in order to keep abreast of current and future market needs. Countries of destination Capgemini is committed to the continuing development of all employees, personally and professionally, with the aim of creating and maintaining a fully competent and motivated Others USA workforce with core skills aligned to its present and future 36% 13% business requirements. In providing such development opportunities, we will enhance our ability to achieve individual, France team and corporate goals. 10% UAE The fundamental strategy of competency development draws 3% UK on various approaches: 8% • standard training programs; India Poland 6% • virtual Classrooms; 3% • mentoring systems; Germany • e-learning; 6% • on-line books; Switzerland • knowledge Centers, video and online TV; Netherlands 4% • on-the job training; Sweden 6% 5% • easily accessible databases for knowledge sharing; • management of professional interest communities; • forums and team rooms; To facilitate mobility within each country, intranet sites list • KM 2.0 communities, blogs and wikis. available positions. This offers the opportunity for jobs to be ﬁlled by existing employees prior to being advertised outside A sharing and networking culture is vital if knowledge is to be the company. used and transmitted. Innovation and collaboration are also required. Sustained focus on training and competency development Resources are devoted to the provision of training, both at Group level and locally. The Group’s on-line learning management system MyLearning, open to all employees, was used by over 80,500 employees in 2011, and usage of e-courses and online books saw another big jump. Overall, more than 101,000 employees were trained in 2011, up 21% compared with the previous year taking the total volume of training hours to 3.87 million. Employees use MyLearning for informal and just-in-time learning but also register for more formal, structured learning events. 48 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 % of individual employee trained 2011 2010 (The above data includes trained employees who left the Group) % of elearning The Group University The quality of services provided to our clients is dependent upon the excellence and motivation of our teams: We therefore invest in the development of our employees our most precious asset from their hiring and at every stage of their career. Our University plays a key role in the quality of the Group’s products and its competitiveness. The University’s vision is to be the partner of the Group’s continual transformation and competitiveness. Its mission is to: • develop the competencies and capabilities of our people that are essential to Group priorities and strategies; • partner the business to deploy content on Capgemini’s speciﬁc know-how and to industry standards; • create next generation learning that challenges and supports the participants while creating a network within and across our 2009 2010 2011 communities; and • rely on our rich history and benchmark with best-in-class MyLearning contains all the Group programs and, for many learning organizations to guarantee proven excellence. regions, local curricula. The catalogue of courses includes a range of training options to suit different learning styles, To contribute to the achievement of the Group’s long-term including e-learning, books, on-line mentoring, test-preps, goals, the Group University has launched an innovative online examinations, language courses, live virtual training Transformation Program, in partnership with all divisions, sessions and meetings, and classroom teaching. Classroom sectors and global service lines and across the whole of our instruction is provided either at local training centers, through professional communities. external suppliers, or at the Group University. In 2011 the Group continued to develop its on-line training courses using the Group 2011 marked the creation of the new identity and a new tagline University’s e-learning resources; 19% of training took place for our University, inspired by a team spirit of collaboration: “Our on-line. University we shift the boundaries!” In 2011, Our University “shifted the boundaries”: CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 49 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 • by expanding its portfolio of programs with the addition of new Key ﬁgures: learning products: In 2011, more than 82,000 Capgemini employees (69% of our Capabilit y Booster” and “Rapid Design” workshops. workforce) took part in training schemes as part of the training These workshops, which combine our teams, our clients path defined by the Group, using various channels. The total and technology partners, work to identify our employees’ volume provided was 1,233,000 hours. development and training needs in solutions to business developments. The University is thus establishing itself as a More than 15,000 employees were trained at one of our partner of the Group’s transformation; specialist centers (Les Fontaines in France, Hyderabad in India programs specially designed for our BPM and Testing global and Chicago in the United States) or locally in the different service lines; countries in which the Group is present, representing 750,536 virtual programs leading to ISEB, PMI, PRINCE 2 and ITIL® hours of training. A third of these hours were carried out as part certiﬁcation; of the programs offered by the University. a new integration program for new hires; Virtual learning expanded significantly in 2011: increasing • offering learning in new subjects such as Cloud Computing, by more than 4 0% over the year, or slightly more than SaaS or how to use eco-systems to bring greater added value 730,000hours. This channel now represents 19% of total to our clients. training hours. 45% of our employees followed programs to develop their In 2011, the principles of the Next Generation Learning approach, management skills (Leadership) or to get to know Capgemini launched the previous year, were applied by the University better (Integration). The remaining 55% followed programs to all new design or redefinition of programs or events such targeted at developing professional skills related to their role, as the Business Priority Weeks (BPW), CCWeek (Capgemini sector, service line or our strategic partners’ technologies. Consulting’s summer university) and the ACES Summer School sales program. The Certiﬁcation process Internal certiﬁcation In the new Learning Business Partner Team, created in 2010, This in-house peer review process enables employees to members of the University and key training and professional appraise colleagues’ competencies on the basis of precise and development executives, worked in collaboration to achieve the clearly identiﬁed criteria such as experience gained, knowledge six shared training priorities deﬁned for 2011: sharing, use of in-house tools and methods, mentoring and leadership. • No. 1 Increasing use of more cost competitive “productive The process has three objectives, namely: time” training: moving away from the residential training model • To create strong and recognized professional-interest in favor of a training model integrating modern technology and communities by sharing information, knowledge and skills in offering more space for virtual training; speciﬁc areas; • No. 2 Contributing to growth and productivity with shorter • To ensure blended distribution and graduated progression integration programs with high impact from the very ﬁrst day; of competencies, both for in-house and client ser vice • No. 3 Optimizing access to virtual programs: the target was requirements; to provide 33% of training hours through virtual programs; • To create, in the process, the win-win situation of ensuring • No. 4 Improving the presentation of the global training competitive edge both for the Group and for its employees, portfolio: the target (reached) was to provide 33% of Group thereby increasing their “employability. training by University training programs; • No. 5 Integration of the new leadership proﬁle in the global For a number of years the Group has run internal certiﬁcation University product; programs, primarily for project managers, architects, software • No. 6 Improving the transparency of training results: 71% of engineers and network engineers. the Group’s training hours are now recorded in a single system. Nearly 1,800 project managers, 541 architects, 4,241 software In 2010, our University launched a program in conjunction with engineers and 311 network engineers had either obtained or the Group’s top ﬁve strategic technology partners: IBM, Oracle, reconﬁrmed an internal certiﬁcation by end-2011. SAP, HP and Microsoft. This partnership was extended in 2011 to include three new companies: EMC, SalesForce.com and External certiﬁcation VMWARE. The Group has a longstanding external certification policy enhanced by online learning programs that provide the ability to study for external afﬁliation, including test preps and online mentoring. Employees may apply for the following external certiﬁcation: Microsoft, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Cisco, Linus Professional Institute, Six Sigma (Green and Black Belts), Project Management Institute (PMI), and ITIL. 50 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 Center certiﬁcation information. The communications teams are now very active Centers of excellence around the world continue to consolidate on the Company’s internal social networks to communicate, and strengthen Group capabilities to support a distributed exchange, guide and direct employees towards other content and increasingly global delivery model. Relevant external sources. Employee enthusiasm for these new tools has been cer tific ation combin e d with our inte rnal cer tific ation spectacular: Yammer, the Group social networking site, now programs support these objectives. More than 80 Capgemini boasts more than 35,000 proﬁles. The business lines’ social centers, including Accelerated Delivery Centers, Application networking sites are also proving popular, with the Consulting Management Services Centers, Infrastructure Management Services site registering 4,000 members and Sogeti having Service Centers, Business Process Outsourcing Centers, 10,000 members. The most popular discussion themes focus and Technical Excellence Centers now have some form of on technology, innovation and mobility opportunities within the certiﬁcation. Centers in India, the United States, Canada, France, Company. the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, The past year saw the production of videos developed to share Switzerland, Poland, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Norway, Denmark, the Company’s strategic objectives and to reduce the distance Finland and China have ISO certiﬁcations including ISO 9001/ between top executives and employees. The CEO and other ISO 9001-2008. Many centers have CMM/CMMI® (Capability Group Directors regularly posted vBlogs (short videos) on a Maturity Model Integration) certiﬁcation, which is speciﬁc to dedicated platform. the applications development business. In India the centers of Mumbai, Kolkata, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai and Bangalore, To e n s u r e c o n s i s t e n c y o f m e s s a g e s a n d m e a n s o f as well as that of the Asturias in Spain and the OS AM business communication, physical and vir tual events were also in the United Kingdom have achieved the highest level CMM accompanied by internal communication. Three global and CMMI® certiﬁcation (level 5). More than 17 other centers campaigns were very successful. They demonstrated the in France, the Netherlands, Spain, Italy, Finland, Argentina, importance employees attached to the themes of diversity, the Canada, the United Kingdom and the United Sates have received environment, and socially responsible companies, and showed level 2 or 3 certiﬁcation. All BPO centers are ISO 9000 certiﬁed how these contribute to the success and image of the Group. and IIP accredited, a measure of the global production capability, economies of scale and ﬂexibility to adapt to changes in demand. A dedicated communication channel helps foster team spirit and communication amongst the Group’s Vice-President community. The Executive series comprises a monthly newsletter, The Dialogue and internal communication Executive Summary, ad-hoc communications via The Executive at the heart of our relationships Link, and a dedicated space on the intranet, The Executive Corner. The Vice Presidents also receive real-time external Capgemini believes effective communication is a precondition communications to the market or the press. For special events for an open and honest culture, and for the involvement and such as acquisitions or Company results, they are sent a speciﬁc engagement of employees. It is also essential for effective document summarizing the key messages and a “Communications knowledge dissemination, sharing success and creating a sense Pack” so that they can pass the information on to their teams. of belonging within teams, at both the Group and local level. To improve consistency and protect the Group’s image across Moreover, use of the Group’s intranet, Talent, continued to the different means of communication (newsletters, opinion grow in 2011, with nearly 5 million connections. Every day this polls, messages, etc.) production tools are available which site showcases the commercial dynamism of the teams, the manage the various elements of the Group’s graphics chart, excellence of delivery and innovations and the best Group allowing editors to concentrate on the content. practices and tools. Talent is the channel on which the Group’s strategic directions and priorities are set out, as well as those We recognize that many contributors to newsletters, intranet of the operating entities. It is the gateway to the national sites and other resources are not communications professionals. intranets, training sites and all the communities hosted on a To h e lp a d d re s s th is a n d r a is e th e q u a li t y of in te r n a l single platform and registered 33 million connections in 2011. communications, in 2011 the Group’s internal communications A daily summary of the latest local and international news is team expanded its virtual classroom with lessons on different sent to 7,000 subscribers, with a weekly digest being sent to all topics and practices relating to internal communication. Capgemini employees every Friday. They can also personalize their own space (MyDesk) with information ﬂows and internal The annual satisfaction sur vey showed that the level of and external services. employee satisfaction with communication and the distribution of information remains broadly unchanged ( VPs were 2011 saw the emergence of closer ties between the Company’s generally more satisﬁed than average). Employees believe the internal social networks and traditional communication “Capgemini team spirit” is particularly important, linked to the channels, in order to increase connectivity within the Group: Company’s ethical values, its image and the ﬁghting spirit which Widgets were added to local intranets to enhance structured characterizes the group, as well as its generosity. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 51 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 Communication at the heart of employee transfers beyond European legislation on works councils and opened IWC Maintaining the involvement and satisfaction of existing meetings to members from non-European countries, including employees is only part of the communications challenge. North America and India, creating a truly globally representative Winning the hearts and minds of the many people who join body. In 2011, through its policy of including the major nonthe company each year as part of an outsourcing deal or an European countries in the work of the Committee, the IWC acquisition is vital to the success of any deal. welcomed a representative from Brazil. To date, 22 countries are represented at the IWC: Germany, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Two-way communication and employee involvement Spain, Finland, France, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, At the heart of Capgemini’s communications philosophy is Norway, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, the Czech Republic, a commitment to two-way communication. While informal Romania, the UK and Sweden, North America, India and Brazil. dialogue is always encouraged, understanding the engagement and satisfaction levels of employees is also formally sought At local level, the company also supports dialogue with unions through the annual Group employee survey process. For or other employee representatives, within relevant bodies and many years, employee surveys were locally managed with a through the processes provided for under local legislation, questionnaire that was the same for all entities. regulations and agreements. The IWC has a dedicated intranet site to give all Group employees open access to IWC information. After a successful 2006 global survey pilot, the Global Employee Survey was run across all Capgemini entities worldwide and in In 2011, the 22 member countries were invited to four plenary Sogeti Unites States in 2007. Since 2008, all Group employees, meetings including two which were organized by Group from all sectors, have been invited each year to participate. Management in “Fontaines”, in the presence of Paul Hermelin, Group CEO, and two organized by the IWC members in Antwerp In 2011, more than 63,000 employees responded to this and Utrecht. Constructive and positive discussion took place on survey, a participation rate of 63% and the level of employee various topics such as Group strategy, alliances, communication, involvement across the Group was slightly up. The breakdown the organization of Country Committees, recent acquisitions, of results by country, operating unit and business line allows a new economic models, employability, skills development and more in-depth analysis and better-targeted action plans. This the new performance management system, MyPath. In addition survey also tracks and monitors progress to promote areas of to these four meetings, the Board met monthly to progress the strength and make more impact on the areas where we want to actions points from these meetings or to discuss topics related improve. The 2011 survey was improved to focus on the most to monthly activity. important subjects for the Group and our employees. We are now measuring Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) more widely than previously, including questions on ethics, diversity Remuneration policy and our commitment to social responsibility. Scores continue to improve in these areas and the results of the survey show that The Group’s remuneration policy is based on common principles, CSR is a priority for our employees. It remains important that applied in a decentralized way and tailored to local job market we retain a customer-focused approach, as evidenced by high conditions and regulations. This policy aims to: scores obtained on these topics: 90% of our employees feel • attract and retain talents, personally responsible for their client’s satisfaction. Analysis • reward individual and collective per formance with a of priorities in terms of commitment indicated that customer remuneration model that is motivating yet ﬂexible, and intimacy and adding value in customer undertakings were • be fair and consistent with the Group’s ﬁnancial and operational important motivating factors for our employees. targets. Employee representation and social dialogue Where local rules permit, employees can select the components Capgemini also demonstrates its commitment to formal two-way of their remuneration package from a predeﬁned package. This dialogue through its approach to employee representation. The provides employees with additional ﬂexibility, enabling them company upholds the laws of representation and recognizes the to reconcile their ﬁnancial and personal situations in the best importance of constructive dialogue between employees and possible way. management in shaping key decisions affecting the running of the Group. Proﬁt-sharing is available to employees pursuant to the local regulations applicable in the country. In 2001, the International Works Council (IWC) was set up Vice-president and senior executive compensation schemes are as the official representative body in the Group. It enables overviewed and authorized at Group level for both ﬁxed salaries employee representatives to bring employee interests directly and variable compensation schemes. Non vice-president to the attention of Group management. In return, the latter compensation schemes, locally designed and managed, are informs them directly of the company’s plans and the impact subject to Group approval with regard to their principles. of these plans on employees. Since 2004, Capgemini has gone 52 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 The minimum salaries applied by the Group in each country Employee access to stock holding always exceed or are equal to the legal minimum salaries in force in the country concerned, and are sometimes higher by a very In 2009, Capgemini also launched its first international signiﬁcant proportion. In France this rate is 107%. employee stock ownership plan, covering 19 countries. More than 14,000 employees applied for shares which make our employees, as a whole, one of the Group’s principal shareholders. Share based incentive schemes Authorization to launch a new plan, under similar conditions to the 2009 plan, was approved at the Shareholders’ Meeting of Capgemini S.A. has granted share-based instruments (stock May 26, 2011. options and performance shares) on a regular basis in line with the recommendations of the AFEP/MEDEF corporate In addition, in 2009 Capgemini launched a product whose governance code. These grants are made selectively with the performance is related to its share price: the BSAAR. This aim of rewarding employee loyalty, namely for those who have product was made available to Group managers at a price made exceptional contributions to company sales, production, of €3.22 (at fair value and in accordance with a valuation innovation or management or who have been acknowledged for carried out by an external expert) and was accompanied by an speciﬁc initiatives. Any employee in the Group may be selected information memorandum approved by the French Financial to receive them. They are an exceptional reward and do not form Markets Authority (AMF). BSAARs are an opportunity for part of the general remuneration policy. managers who would like to make a long-term investment in the Company (from 4-7 years) and are exposed to changes in The Board of Directors allocated a certain number of stock the share price. options to 6,193 beneficiaries under the fifth plan (launched in May 2000 and closed in May 2005), to 2,298 beneﬁciaries under the sixth plan (launched in May 2005 and closed in July Diversity and Inclusion – Our strategic 2008), to 507 beneﬁciaries under the ﬁrst performance shares advantage plan and to 566 beneﬁciaries under the second performance shares plan. The Management Report, presented at each Cap With more than 120,000 employees in 40 countries and Gemini S.A. Shareholders’ Meeting, provides a detailed yearly representing 110 nationalities, Capgemini is proud of its wide breakdown of these grants. cultural diversity. This diversity has many facets including gender, disability, ethnicity, origin, age and lifestyle: We Concurrently, stock option grants to Executive Corporate view diversity as both a strategic advantage and an ongoing Officers form a tiny percentage of the aggregate options challenge. This diversity is a source of innovation and inspiration, distributed. Under the fifth and sixth plans, 1.1% of the total it promotes new ideas, anticipating market changes and our number of options allocated was awarded to Executive Corporate image as pioneers. By creating an international platform, it Ofﬁcers, and no options are exercisable on plans still active. With helps us understand better the global market and to adapt to respect to performance shares, the two resolutions passed the communities in which we operate. by the Shareholders’ Meeting limited to 5% the maximum volume attributable to corporate ofﬁcers. The volume ultimately In all countries of operation, the Group complies with local labor granted represented 4.35% of the total attribution for the ﬁrst legislation and international labor regulations. In our working plan and no shares have been granted under the second plan. practices we are committed to ensuring that: Moreover, share based instruments have never been granted on • talented individuals from different backgrounds are recruited an automatic and/or annual basis. and retained; • individuals are shown respect and treated fairly; Detailed information regarding the stock options or performance • our working relationships are devoid of any unlaw ful shares allocated by Cap Gemini S.A. to directors and to the ten discrimination; main beneﬁciaries (non-directors), the options exercised by the • our work environment is free from bullying or harassment; latter, and the plans in general are provided on pages 185 to 187 • employees are encouraged to keep a good balance between and 230 of this Registration Document. work and private life; • the health and well-being of our people is supported; and Thanks to a resolution approved at the Shareholders’ Meeting • a sound and fair working environment, where staff can grow of May 26, 2011, the Group currently has the authorit y and develop, is provided. to award performance shares up to a maximum amount of 1,000,000 shares and which to date has not been used. We actively promote the principles of diversit y in our employment practices. Our aim is to encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds who are innovative, enthusiastic, culturally aware and committed to delivering a truly collaborative experience to our clients. In particular by: CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 53 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 • recruiting employees according to objective, job-related We make every effort to adapt to different needs and to criteria; enable people to work with us under a wide range of personal • continuously reviewing and improving our HR practices and circumstances. In a number of countries, where this is allowed, procedures to encourage diversity; employee data is monitored according to multiple criteria: • identifying barriers or restrictions to diversity and taking action social-cultural groups, age group, disability, etc. Diversity to remove them; performance indicators are also included in the annual HR audit. • training and educating line and HR managers on an ongoing basis; • communicating the spirit of our diversity policy to everyone in the company; • setting up ways to measure and monitor our diversity. WORKFORCE NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE GROUP WITH A DISABILITY 2010-2011 2011 2010 The coverage interval for the data above is 60% of year-end Our offices around the world have introduced initiatives headcount. This percentage is relatively low due to the fact to promote employee well-being: work-life balance, stress that some countries such as India and North America do not management, improvement of employee-manager relations, and collect this type of data. In 2011, data indicated that the Group better working conditions. Many of our countries, including India, employed 1,046 people with a disability, of which 42% in the have Employee Assistance Programs (EAP), which have proven United Kingdom and 25% in France. This was 60 people more invaluable in helping our employees manage stressful personal in 2011 than in 2010. situations through an entirely conﬁdential external service. Other services range from health checks focusing on the prevention Health and safety in the workplace of health problems, training for managers and employees on Health and safety in the workplace is an important feature of improving their work-life balance, and ﬁtness programs. human resources and facilities management. Fortunately, the Group’s businesses do not involve high-risk activities. Health and Through our MyLearning learning management system, safety responsibilities are nevertheless taken very seriously and numerous books and e-learning modules are available to the company has established speciﬁc processes and measures. employees. We have also purchased Well-being Essentials, a Capgemini often works in collaboration with clients on issues special range of products addressing concerns on personal concerning client buildings and locations where staff may be ﬁnance, emotional well-being, relationships, health challenges, working. Areas of concern are regularly reviewed and preventive stress, career transitions, work-life balance, healthy eating, measures implemented. adoption, parenting, fitness, grief & loss, abuse of harmful substances, etc. 54 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our people 3 WORKFORCE RATE OF ABSENTEEISM 2011 The coverage interval for this study is 61.8% of year-end sick leave in the strict sense. In 2011, the rate of absenteeism for headcount. This percentage is relatively low due to the fact that sickness in the sample was 2.6%. The highest rate is observed some countries such as India (which represents nearly 30% in Poland (4.8%), followed by Benelux (3.6%). France, at 2.9%, of our workforce) do not collect data on the number of days of was ranked just above the Group average. WORKFORCE NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS 2010-2011 2011 2010 The coverage inter val for the above data is 58.9%. This account of the regulations in force relating to the reporting of percentage is relatively low due to the fact that some countries information. The majority of these work-related accidents were such as India (which represents nearly 30% of our workforce) accidents during the home/workplace journey. do not collect this type of data. In 2011, the Group recorded No work-related death occurred in the Group in 2011 (GRI LA7). 402 work-related accidents, of which 40% were in France on CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 55 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our stakeholders 3 3.4 Our stakeholders OUR CLIENTS of these service offerings can be accessed on our website at www.capgeminigreen.com/greencube/. The OTACE client satisfaction policy The Merlin data center Our Merlin center is considered to be one of the most Our client relationship management process, known as OTACE sustainable data centers in the world. Its annual PUE (Power (On Time and At or Above Client Expectations) is a key factor Usage Effectiveness) ratio, which averages out at 1.1 is in underpinning our strong client relationships. Clients are fact below the reference threshold set for our industry (1.4). requested to specify their expectations from our services based Located in Swindon, in the South-West of England, this on a set of indicators relating to the following: center, having a revolutionary design, incorporates several • type of service required; innovations, for example, a state-of-the-art air cooling system, • nature of the working relationship; and that uses an Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) with ﬂywheel, • knowledge sharing. which ensures maximum energy efficiency in managing the infrastructures of our clients. We document and review these indicators with clients to produce ratings that are reviewed regularly according to an The Merlin data processing center received first prize at the agreed schedule. prestigious Green Enterprise IT (GEIT) ceremony in 2011 organized by Uptime Institute. By allowing us to better assess the client satisfaction level with respect to their project, OTACE allows us to identify not only our Further information is available from: strengths but also areas for improvement. In 2011, over 5,000 http://www.capgemini.com/insights-and-resources/ duties were analyzed using OTACE. The results showed 91% of by-publication/merlin--the-worlds-most-sustainable-dataprojects were delivered on time and 92% met or exceeded client centre/?ftcnt=10121 expectations, with average client satisfaction being 3.94 out of 5. BPO Services for data management, and energy, carbon Our client focus and the Collaborative Business Experience of & sustainability reporting. Capgemini is the essence of the way we work with our clients. Managing their sustainability performance is increasingly critical Client satisfaction and their appreciation of the value we bring for our clients. This means processes and systems are essential in contributing to making their businesses successful and to capture the complex and comprehensive data needed for sustainable is essential to our business. This is reﬂected in how well-informed management decisions on carbon footprint our people feel: in our 2011 Global Employee Survey, 90% of our management and energy savings. Our outsourced service people strongly agree that they “feel personally responsible for for energy, carbon & sustainability data management and their client’s satisfaction.” reporting can accommodate all global protocols and emission factors. The BPO service is powered by CA ecoSoftware from The Group ser ves many clients, distributed in several CA Technologies, one of the world’s leading SaaS sustainability business sectors and countries. The most important ones are management tools. The service provides an efficient, cost international groups and public bodies. The Group’s premier ef fective, high qualit y management, analysis and back client, which is a British public body of the ﬁrst rank, accounts for ofﬁ ce reporting service leaving the client free to focus on its slightly less than 10% of the Group’s turnover, the second only sustainability strategy and improvement projects. a little more than 2%. The ﬁrst 10 clients together account for Further information is available from: just over 22% of the Group’s turnover and the ﬁrst 30 for slightly http://www.capgemini.com/services-and-solutions/ more than 36%. The creditworthiness of its major clients and outsourcing/business-process-outsourcing/overview/. the wide dispersion of the others limit the credit risks. Portfolio of Smart Energy services: “The Group provided performance and/or ﬁnancial guarantees With more than ten years’ experience and in partnership with for certain large client contracts. Some of these guarantees, the main players worldwide in this field, Capgemini’s Smart relating to a very restricted number of clients whose projects Energy Services (SES) offer a wide range of sustainable represented approximately 14% of Group revenues in 2011, were solutions to energy efﬁciency and environmental issues. Our not for ﬁxed amounts. commitment, which can be seen by the fact that we have more than 8,000 employees working in this area, is based on our acknowledged experience and our ability to innovate and Developing client offerings with implement. Our services are relevant to more than 43 million a sustainability focus users who are looking for solutions which optimize energy In 201 1 , C apgemini contin u e d to grow it s p or t folio of consumption and their environmental impact. sustainability offers and to build on its strong track record of Further information is available from: helping clients achieve their environmental objectives. Details http://www.capgemini.com/smartenergy. 56 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our stakeholders 3 OUR SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS Our core principles are: PARTNERS 1. Human rights – Respect for human rights when dealing with Capgemini’s commitment to supplier relationships is reﬂected in supplier stakeholders at large e.g., team members, clients, its comprehensive set of guidelines on the ethics of purchasing suppliers, shareholders and communities. Suppliers should and the selection of suppliers. support the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They must avoid the use of equipment in breach of these rights or the manufacture or transfer of arms to Purchasing activities oppressive regimes. In our purchasing activities, we are conscious of environmental 2. Respect for national, international, regional and local issues and impacts, social impacts, human rights, and the ﬁght applicable laws – We recognize that customs, traditions against bribery and corruption. The ten key principles of the and local practices may differ. Nevertheless, as a minimum, United Nations Global Compact guide our activities throughout we require our suppliers to respect local, national and our business. This means that we are committed to ensuring international laws including, in particular, all environmental, that we work only with suppliers who respect appropriate ethical health and safety and labor laws. We expect suppliers to policies and human rights. support International Labor Organization core conventions on labor standards. Capgemini has set out “Guidelines on Ethical Procurement” and wishes to develop long-term, sustainable relations with 3. No forced or compulsory labor – Our suppliers must not selected suppliers. Should a supplier fail to respect these ethical use forced, unpaid or compulsory labor and employees must guidelines, Capgemini is then entitled to cancel the contract be free to leave their employment after reasonable notice. without compensation. Employees must not be required to lodge deposits, money or papers with their employer. Our procurement procedures involve: • treating suppliers fairly; 4. No child labor – We refuse to accept the use of child labor in • selecting vendors based on value, performance, price and the supply chain. In particular: sustainability; • no one should be employed who is below the legal minimum • providing justiﬁable and transparent selection decisions; age for employment in the country; • preserving the conﬁdentiality of supplier information; • children (below the age of 18) must not be employed for any • managing supplier risk; work that is hazardous or inconsistent with their personal • ensuring supplier contracts have effective clauses corresponding development. to our Sustainable Procurement Principles; • maintaining appropriate commercial relationships with suppliers. 5. Equality and diversity – We refuse to accept unlawful discrimination of any kind in working relations and we expect Supplier diversity and equality is encouraged, with our aim being diversity to be promoted. Suppliers should not discriminate to allow qualiﬁed small and minority businesses the opportunity in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, and to receive a share of our business. Our “eco-system” approach termination of employment or retirement. with major clients aims to foster this and level the entry barrier where practical. 6. Employee well-being and development – Where applicable, suppliers should give consideration to flexible working Contractors’ and suppliers’ staff are expected to work according conditions to foster a work/life balance and the personal to the same CSR & Sustainability standards as our own development and training of team members. employees. In parallel, we treat contractors and suppliers with the same sustainability, health & safety and diversity standards 7. Disciplinary practices – Employees must be treated with as our own employees. respect and dignity. Any physical or verbal abuse, harassment, threats and/or other forms of intimidation are prohibited. Our sustainable procurement principles 8. Freedom of association – Insofar as permissible by the relevant laws, respect should be given for freedom of Capgemini expects its suppliers to conduct their relationships association. with us and any of our clients and commercial partners on a fair and ethical basis and in compliance with our core sustainability 9. Health and safety – A safe and healthy working environment principles. These principles apply both to the goods and services for all employees must be provided in accordance with the provided, to the suppliers’ activities and, where appropriate, to international standards, laws and regulations. This includes their downstream supply chains. making sure that adequate facilities, training and access to safety information are provided. Any policies, procedures CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 57 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our stakeholders 3 and guidelines applicable must be obeyed. Where suppliers Sustainable procurement in practice work on Capgemini premises, or on behalf of Capgemini –such as for the use, handling, transport or disposal of hazardous Capgemini continues to implement a Sustainable Procurement materials or the disposal of electronic equipment– they must in Partnership project. This reviews every category of goods and conﬁrm that they understand their obligations. They must services procured from suppliers, in order to identify key areas also confirm that they have management processes and of sustainability risk and related opportunities for improvement. controls in place, and agree, whenever applicable, to be fully “Risk” in this context refers to whether the product or service responsible for any liability arising from their actions. being procured has the potential to make a material impact on our sustainability performance and commitments; or whether 10. Conﬁdentiality and intellectual property – We require our it is subject to legislation, particularly environmental legislation. suppliers, contractors and their team members to preserve The project encompasses: the confidentiality of any information to which they have • an analysis of our supplier base in terms of risk and expenses; access in accordance with applicable laws. We also expect • a more detailed analysis of the preferred supplier to: them to protect any intellectual property belonging to evaluate supplier performance in terms of environmental Capgemini, its customers, suppliers and/or individuals. sustainability; if required, agree appropriate improvement activities with 11. Refusal of bribery and corruption in business practices. preferred suppliers; and assess all new suppliers, who are required to complete a 12. Environmental impacts – We continue to focus on improving sustainability questionnaire. our results in reducing the impacts and risks of our activities We have instituted a detailed survey and our suppliers are on the environment. In particular, we are working to reduce expected to comply with our Core Principles of Sustainability. In our negative impacts in a quantifiable way. The areas 2008, all the Group’s Procurement Ofﬁcers agreed to complete a concerned are: risk and expenses assessment of all key suppliers. The program • CO2 emissions; was implemented in our largest countries in 2009 and supplier • waste and its elimination; assessments currently cover 84% of worldwide purchasing • efﬁcient use of natural resources such as energy, water and expenses. Some 3,140 suppliers were or are currently being raw materials in general; analyzed. Following this analysis, 271 suppliers have been • protection of biodiversity; and delisted or reclassiﬁed (mainly in the UK and India). • management, operational and technical controls to minimize the release of harmful emissions into the We identiﬁed risk criteria to ensure that further assessments are environment. undertaken on new suppliers if necessary. These comprehensive criteria include: In 2011, from its ten leading suppliers the Group purchased • excessive use of scarce, or non-renewable natural resources; and goods and services amounting to €451 million, representing • standards and speciﬁcations for particular categories of spending 4.65% of its sales for the year. Details are shown in the table (for example, procurement of energy from renewable resources, below: recycled paper), supply chains utilizing low-cost countries where the primary supplier has not assessed and managed risk % of in millions of euros Amount revenue appropriately. British Telecom BT Group 136 1.40% Capgemini also aims as far as possible to under take all Hewlett Packard 51 0.53% procurement (real estate, equipment, business travel) in Manpower 44 0.45% accordance with its environmental policies and guidelines. This Vertex customer Mngt Ltd. 38 0.39% has been embedded into standard contracts since 2007, with the CORSO Informatica BV NL 37 0.38% option of terminating a contract in the case of non-compliance. Oracle 33 0.34% IBM 32 0.33% Global Crossing 28 0.29% ACTIONS IN THE COMMUNITY Telecommunication Ltd. EMC 26 0.27% Capgemini is committed to producing a positive impact on the Logica 26 0.27% community, now and in the future. As a major global employer, TOTAL 451 4.65% we work with external stakeholders on community projects, at national and international levels. Capgemini actively encourages employees at all levels to get involved in the communities in which they live and work. We channel our time, energy and creativity into having a positive impact through partnerships with various foundations, volunteering, pro bono work, fundraising 58 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our stakeholders 3 and awarding funding, where appropriate. Mobilizing forces to Main Naandi initiatives within the Group help others strengthens team spirit, improves communication • Capgemini UK opened its sixth Hamari library in a Naandi skills and promotes a better understanding of the communities Institution school, thus giving the students access to a wide around us. choice of books, newspapers and educational documents managed by a full-time librarian. Our focus on community projects is very much aligned to our • Capgemini UK Aspire adopted” a school located in a slum in corporate purpose and values. We recognize our responsibility Mumbai: selling samosas in its main building raised £18,000. to contribute to the talent and skills of the wider population and These funds are used to provide basic academic skills to future generations. Our basic community philosophy is to promote underprivileged children in the slum, and thus enable them to education, integration and skills development. We acknowledge continue their studies. that diversity is a source of richness and competitive advantage • Capgemini Netherlands launched an Internet site www. so our aim is to support diversity and nurture future talent in all naandi.nl to encourage people outside Capgemini to become its forms. We operate in communities across the world both from involved with this program and to make this initiative more our network of ofﬁces and from our client and RightshoreTM sites. widely known through social networking sites. Capgemini Our community strategy therefore focuses on local, national and Naandi NL is a registered charity. global initiatives. • Capgemini India launched the Nanhi Kali CSR program in Our intention is to provide as many opportunities as we can for late 2011 for employees of the “financial services” division our employees and to engage in activities for the community (approximately 15,000 people). All our employees in India now that contribute to their development. Furthermore, we integrate have the opportunity to support a student from the program our community programs in our business activities, and we • The Group’s headquarters continues to sponsor 115 students coordinate them with the actions of our clients in favor of by sending e-cards through the speciﬁc platform developed by sustainable development. We measure and evaluate the impact the Internal Communication of the Group. of our community involvement and share this with our people, our • Capgemini Belgium is the most recent entity to have joined the community partners and our clients. program, in particular using Talent’s e-card platform. • Capgemini North America sent young recruits who are Our global Naandi initiative following training programs in India to visit Nanhi Kali and Our partnership with the Naandi Foundation and its Nanhi encouraged them to take videos and create promotional tools Kali Initiative (focused on supporting young girls through their to further sponsorship of this program. During campus visits, education) has a direct positive community impact in India; Capgemini North America commits to sponsoring one student it is also aligned with and supports our CSR & Sustainability every time a student asks to be sent information about the strategy. In 2011, we sponsored over 13,000 girls in India by Company. means of schemes and initiatives across the Group. We are the largest corporate sponsor of Nanhi Kali internationally and the second largest for the foundation overall. The Nanhi Kali program has been ofﬁcially adopted in the framework of CSR and sustainability by 11 Group countries and three new countries are expected to launch initiatives in 2012. Total no. of NK’s sponsored Paris Deutschland Headquarter Denmark 170 155 115 Australia USA 261 46 Finland Norway 333 5,038 Netherlands UK 723 2,899 India Sweden 1,844 1,808 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 59 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our stakeholders 3 Capgemini Group & the Naandi Foundation Our Sogeti–PlaNet Finance initiative At end 2011 Capgemini launched a dedicated website in Our local IT services business, Sogeti, has maintained a association with MicroWorld, a corporate citizen, to help micropartnership with PlaNet Finance since its creation in 1998, entrepreneurs and to promote the growth of micro-credit in a partnership that has made a significant contribution to less advanced countries. This site provides a secure platform alleviating poverty in some of the world’s poorest communities. which enables individuals to finance micro-entrepreneurs’ PlaNet Finance is an international non-profit organization, projects around the world by making on-line loans to projects created to reduce poverty in the world through the development that have been validated by a proven methodology in a socially of microﬁnance. responsible manner. Beyond financial assistance, Sogeti PlaNet Finance support includes the technological expertise and the support of the main computer systems: we manage their computer system voluntarily by hosting computer applications including intranet, electronic messaging and on-line training as well as providing services related to human resources. Through savings of time and money thus obtained, PlaNet Finance is able to further invest in microﬁnance projects. 60 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY Our stakeholders 3 Summary of donations made Countries/Region Donations (€) Programs India €27,040 Nanhi Kali, Goonj, Jagriti Sewa Sansthan and BOSCO and WeKare Society France €250,000 Mission Handicap and CSR (passeport Avenir, IMS entreprendre pour la cité, Fondation Good Planet, Nos quartiers ont du talent…) UK €153,430 Naandi, The Prince's Trust, and several others Netherlands €267,317 Naandi and several other organizations North America €110,444 Naandi, Habitat for Humanity, United Way, American Red Cross, Ninos de Lago and several others Sub Total €808,231 Europe* €407,202 Naandi, CADIN – Centro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Infantil, Associação Portuguesa de Formação de Actores para Cinema e Televisão, Fundación Adecco, Sant’ Andrea Terre vicine e lontanek, Milan Accueil China €960 Other** €15,429 Hutt St centre, Queensland Floods, Autism SA, Coanil Foundation Sogeti €190,000 KWF Nederland, Stichting Opkikker, Make a Wish Foundation NL, Think Pink Campaign, Fundación Adecco, Red Cross, St. Kind Sponsor Plan Sub Total €613,591 GRAND TOTAL €1,421,822 * Europe = Belgium, Denmark, Italy, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden ** Other = Australia, Chile Highlights of national and local initiatives around the Group Further details on the many initiatives in this ﬁeld can be accessed using the link below: http://www.capgemini.com/about/corporateresponsibility/ CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 61 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY The Group and the environment 3 3.5 The Group and the environment Although Capgemini does not manufacture products, our Environmental priorities services and our business activities may have an adverse impact on the environment. To manage the growth of our company, we We are committed to identifying and complying with all local shall identify and take into account the limits of our environment, and international legal and other relevant requirements relating and modify our business model accordingly. to the environmental impacts of our operations, and to the Our contribution to reduce environmental impacts can take prevention of pollution through the adoption of appropriate place not only within our company, but also through the help we controls. can offer in this area to our stakeholders. While local variations may exist, across the Group our key/ The Group has therefore committed to minimize its negative material environmental impacts are: impacts in the areas most relevant to its business, to comply • greenhouse gas emissions from energy consumption in our with any legal and other relevant requirements involving the ofﬁces and data centers; environmental impacts of its operations, and to permanently • greenhouse gas emissions from business travel; and improve the environmental performance of its operations. • waste, both general and recyclable, produced and disposed of by us. Key environmental aspects Aspects and impacts applicable to the Capgemini business Energy Our main environmental impact comes from the consumption of electricity, gas and oil to light, heat and power our offices and data centers. Data processing centers are particularly energy intensive due to the high level of IT equipment to be housed, powered and cooled. As an example, around 78% of the electricity we use in our UK operations is consumed by the data processing centers alone. Travel The business journeys we undertake, including journeys by road, rail, air, and stays in hotels all consume fossil fuels, contributing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and impacting climate change. This is a major challenge for our industry, whose businesses rely on the mobility of their employees in order to utilize their skills and experience in serving our customers worldwide. We continue to take advantage of the opportunities created by technology such as videoconferencing, supported by virtual hosting services. We also introduced or improved some collaborative tools to facilitate remote working and allow a greater flexibility. In many countries we monitor the emissions from our car fleets, especially by setting emission limits or by promoting the use of hybrid vehicles. Waste management Much of the waste that the Group produces is generated from office consumables and packaging. Capgemini aims to minimize the amount of waste that is sent to landfill by providing recycling facilities in key offices. We also try to engage our people and work with key suppliers to reduce the overall amount of waste in the business, generated by daily operations. We ensure that all electronic equipment is recycled in accordance with local laws. Environment policy and approach 2. identify energy saving sources within our portfolio of ofﬁces A new Group environment policy has been signed by the CEO, to reduce the Group’s energy consumption and associated Paul Hermelin, setting out the expectations for all countries. This carbon footprint; policy statement reinforces our commitment to environmental compliance and the continual improvement of environmental 3. promote energy efﬁciency improvement initiatives in our data performance speciﬁcally in the areas of Energy, Business Travel processing centers; and Waste. 4. implement initiatives to minimize travel (and in particular air Specifically, we expect the companies in the countries we travel), without disrupting our ability to meet the demands operate to: of our clients; 1. have a full understanding of how to quantify and track our 5. implement initiatives to reduce the amount of waste we environmental impacts (at a minimum, our Greenhouse generate, and to maximize the percentage of our waste which Gas (GHG) Emissions) in line with our statutory reporting is recycled; and requirements; 62 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY The Group and the environment 3 6. have procurement processes which ensure that our suppliers • Capgemini became a member of the “21 Committee”, a provide products and services which help us to achieve our network of sustainable development practitioners which was Group environmental policy, particularly in relation to carbon created after the Rio Summit in 1994. The missions of the “21 emissions, reducing energy consumption, and minimizing Committee” include creating conditions for exchanges and waste. partnerships between its members who come from all sectors. • With several other professional services companies, we work on the Professional Services Sustainability Initiative Highlights in 2011 (PSSI) D under the aegis of the Programme for Sustainability Leadership at the University of Cambridge. The PSSI deals with • Capgemini has been a signatory of the Caring for Climate sustainability issues we face in our sector, which can involve initiative since it was launched by the United Nations’ Global searching for all possible discussion topics with decisionCompact in 2007. makers about particular concerns in our sector of activity. • ISO4001 certiﬁcation was achieved for Capgemini Portugal’s Environmental Management System building upon ISO14001 certification already achieved in Belgium, Netherlands and Environmental Data the UK. • Capgemini UK achieved the highest level of assurance for its Given the varying maturity levels of environmental reporting environment program. Capgemini UK is the only company in across the Group, it has been necessary to make a number of its sector to currently hold Eco Management Accreditation assumptions in order to present the carbon emissions data Scheme (EMAS) cer tification for our UK Environment tables. Where only partial data is available, extrapolation has Statement. The statement is available at: been employed to estimate the total impacts. This extrapolation http://www.uk.capgemini.com/m/uk/doc/Sustainability/ has in several cases included the ﬁnal months of 2011 as the full Capgemini_Environmental_Statement_2010_v19_with_logo.pdf. annual data sets were unavailable at the time of table processing. • Capgemini UK appeared in ‘The Sunday Times’ annual Best Green Companies list for the third year running. The extrapolations have included in particular: • Capgemini UK has achieved Platinum status in the annual Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index. • the estimated 2011 data based on available 2010 data • Capgemini India’s new Mumbai headquarters building has (according to a documented methodology related to differing achieved LEED certiﬁcation. scenarios covering all aspects of energy, travel and waste); • The Merlin data processing center at Swindon continues to be cited in various publications for its innovation and sustainability • estimating emissions based on available cost data (using credentials. assumptions such as the cost per kWh of electricity or gas, per • We continue to support the Carbon Disclosure Project, our liter of diesel or per km of travel or kg CO2 emitted per ﬂight). annual submission detailing answers to many client and investor-based questions about our climate change risk, Where no data is available, as was often true for water and some strategies and progress. modes of transport, the data has been deliberately excluded. • Capgemini signed the Two Degree Communiqué on Climate Full details of the assumptions made are available upon request. Change, organized by the Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change. Issued by over 400 business leaders Capgemini’s largest units in France, India, the United Kingdom, globally, it urges global leaders to agree an ambitious, robust the Netherlands and North America (including Canada and the and equitable deal on climate change, and to take appropriate United States of America) account for 68% of Capgemini’s global measures to face this challenge from today. This is line with our headcount. The combined carbon emissions of these operations support for the previous Cancun (2010), Copenhagen (2009), amounts to 220,040 tonnes of CO2 emitted, calculated using the Poznañ (2008), and Bali (2007) communiqués. conversion factors and methodology recommended by the UK • Capgemini is a signatory to the Guadalajara ICT declaration Government’s Department of Environment, Farming and Rural for Transformative Low-carbon Solutions. At the Cancun 2010 Affairs. summit, the countries were urged to use the ICT resource as part of the mechanism of transition to a low carbon emission The carbon footprint tables below include emissions associated economy. with use of gas, diesel, electricity (in data processing centers • In partnership with the Goodplanet Foundation (environmental and ofﬁces), business travel and waste. As water usage is not non-profit organization), Capgemini organized the French a signiﬁcant environmental aspect for Capgemini, it has been translation of the 2011 report of the Worldwatch Institute excluded from the data tables below. There are plans for it to be (a North American independent interdisciplinary research included in subsequent annual reports. organization created in 1975). CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 63 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY The Group and the environment 3 Carbon Emissions (tonnes CO2) Total Data centre Office Emissions Country/Region Gas Diesel electricity electricity Business travel Waste (tonnes CO2) India 33 34,382 10,884 11 45,310 France 247 16 3,610 1,543 17,992 19 23,427 United Kingdom 594 58 28,281 7,384 14,137 176 50,630 Netherlands 304 19 7,051 3,219 35,338 195 46,126 North America 544 4 12,338 3,642 37,818 202 54,548 TOTAL 1,689 130 51,280 50,170 116,169 603 220,041 Currently, the data for the United Kingdom represents the most Carbon emissions data has also been collected from Capgemini complete data set: robust carbon accounting has been in place operations in Finland, Spain, Poland, Romania, Germany, since 2009 with annual external veriﬁcation being conducted Austria, Italy, Belgium, Norway, Portugal, Denmark, Czech since 2010. The 2011 data set, once ﬁnalized, will be audited as Republic, Hungary, Croatia, Australia, China, Philippines, part of Capgemini UK’s Eco-Management Audit Scheme (EMAS) Vietnam, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Guatemala and Mexico, as report in the second quarter of 2012. well as Sogeti operations in France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Capgemini France, Netherlands and North America prepare carbon emissions estimates on an annual basis. Currently a still Total emissions from these activities, based on the extrapolations greater degree of extrapolation has been required, mainly for mentioned above, were 53,031 tonnes of CO2 emitted in 2011. North America where much of the data had to be extrapolated These numbers cover 28% of the Group’s workforce and 66% of based upon 2010 carbon footprint calculations. For Capgemini Sogeti’s workforce. The emission data is listed below: India, the above data represents the ﬁrst full calculation of its carbon footprint. Carbon Emissions (tonnes CO2) Total Data centre Office Emissions Country/Region Gas Diesel electricity electricity Business travel Waste (tonnes CO2) (1) (4) Other Europe 356 100 1,571 4,435 15,390 82 21,934 (2) Asia & Australia 1,072 5,369 1 6,442 Latin America (3) 2 2 220 2,014 3,918 24 6,180 Sogeti (France, NL, UK) 184 12 2,224 16,041 14 18,475 Total Other Operations 542 114 1,791 9,745 40,718 121 53,031 Total Largest Operations 1,689 130 51,280 50,170 116,168 603 220,040 GRAND TOTAL ALL OPERATIONS 2,231 244 53,071 59,915 156,886 724 273,071 1 The “Rest of Europe” section includes Capgemini operations in Finland, Spain, Poland, Romania, Germany, Austria, Italy, Belgium, Norway, Portugal,Denmark, Czech Republic, Hungary, and Croatia. 2 The Asia and Australia section includes Capgemini operations in Australia, China, Philippines and Vietnam 3 The Latin America section includes Capgemini operations in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Guatemala, and Mexico 4 In Belgium (included in the total for Rest of Europe), emissions data associated with travel includes personal car use as well as business mileage. 64 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY The Group and the environment 3 The following table shows the total emissions ﬁgure of 273,071 tons of CO2 distributed according to the Scopes 1 (Gas and Diesel), 2 (Electricity) and 3 (Travel and Waste) deﬁnitions as set out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is a global reporting standard seeking to standardize sustainability reporting across organizations. Emissions in tonnes (CO2e) Data centre Office Business Scope Gas Diesel electricity electricity travel Waste Scope 1 2,231 244 Scope 2 53,071 59,915 Scope 3 156,886 724 The last table below shows Capgemini’s consumption of different countries. Consequently data is provided in terms energy together with paper consumption, waste and recycling of the weight of paper purchased, paper consumed and paper rates. Energy figures, measured in kilowatt hours, includes recycled. Finally, the table provides details of the weight of waste the use of electricity across our operations. Currently the use generated and the percentage of waste recycled. of paper and recycling is measured using different metrics in Paper (T) Waste (T) Hazardous + Non % Waste Country/Region Energy (KwH) Purchased Consumed Recycled Hazardous Recycled India 26,994,205 23 23 na 25 na France 55,943,716 151 149 na 43 na United Kingdom 67,982,949 47 64 177 394 71% Netherlands 24,258,435 na 66 na 436 9% North America 36,551,465 na na 502 452 11% Sub Total Largest Operations 211,730,770 221 302 679 1,350 6% Other Europe 19,620,995 53 46 17 183 40% Asia & Australia 1,498,719 6 0,25 0,22 2 11% Latin America 19,987,319 58 56 27 54 17% Sogeti (France, Netherlands, United Kingdom) 14,997,192 112 111 na 32 na Sub Total Other Operations 56,104,225 229 213 44 271 34% GRAND TOTAL ALL OPERATIONS 267,834,995 450 515 723 1,621 7% na: denotes areas where activities occur but data is currently unavailable As part of its approach in terms of corporate social responsibility Capgemini has neither been subject to sanctions for nonan d sus t ainabilit y, Capgemini commit s to large-sc ale compliance with environmental laws and regulations, nor has deployment of environmental accounting. With this deployment it been notiﬁed of any ﬁnes in this ﬁeld. already under way, our environmental reporting in the future will be more complete and accurate. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 65 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY GRI correlation table 3 3.6 GRI correlation table The selection of indicators below refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and has been given special attention. Other indicators have not been included as they are less (or not) pertinent to our activity. The following GRI correlation table provides the corresponding chapter in the annual report that deals with each indicator. GRI indicators Chapter of the Annual Report Selected indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and Chapter 3.4 List of donations, page 61 distributed, including revenues, operating Our stakeholders, costs, employee compensation, donations Action in the community and other community investments, retained earnings, and payment to capital providers and governments EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Chapter 3.3 Ratio in France, page 52 wage compared to local minimum wage at Our people, Remuneration policy significant locations of operation EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending Chapter 3.4 Practices vis-à-vis our on locally-based suppliers at significant Our stakeholders, Our suppliers suppliers, pages 57 and 58 locations of operation and business partners EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Chapter 3.5 Energy consumption (in Kw) energy source The Group and the environment by region, page 64 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Chapter 3.5 Merlin center, pages 36, 56 or renewable energy based products The Group and the environment and 63 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Chapter 3.5 CO2 emissions, page 64 emissions by weight The Group and the environment EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Chapter 3.5 CO2 emissions, page 64 emissions by weight The Group and the environment EN18 Initiative to reduce greenhouse gas Chapter 3.5 Highlights in 2011, page 63 emissions and reductions achieved The Group and the environment EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Chapter 3.5 Amount of waste in tonnes, method The Group and the environment page 65 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Chapter 3.5 No fines, page 65 number of non-monetary sanctions for The Group and the environment noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, Chapter 3.4 Number of suppliers assessed, contractors and other business partners Our stakeholders, Our suppliers page 58 that have undergone human rights screening and business partners and actions taken LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Chapter 3.3 Total number of employees employment contract, and region Our people, Strong headcount by geographical area, and growth, both organic and external breakdown of full-time/part-time working, by category, pages 40 to 46 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee Chapter 3.3 Our people, Change in turnover over hires and turnover by age group, gender, and Strong headcount growth, 10 years by gender, region both organic and external pages 42 and 44 LA7 Rates of work-related injury, occupational Chapter 3.3 Our people, Rate of work-related injuries, diseases, absenteeism, lost days and Health and safety in the workplace absenteeism, total number of number of work-related fatalities by region work-related injuries, page 55 LA10 Average hours of training per year per Chapter 3.3 Our people, Number of training hours, % of employee by employee category Investing in training and employees trained by region, development page 49 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Chapter 3.3 Percentage of employees performance and career development Our people, Personal development receiving a performance reviews and appraisals and career review by region, page 47 66 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY GRI correlation table 3 GRI indicators Chapter of the Annual Report Selected indicators LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Chapter 3.3 Change over three years of % breakdown of employees by gender, age Our people, Breakdown of workforce of female employees, female group, minority group membership, and by gender turnover, females holding other indicators of diversity management positions, page 44 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the Chapter 3.2 Percentage of employees organization's anti-corruption policies and Ethics trained in the organization's procedures anti-corruption policies and procedures, page 39 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Chapter 3.4 Number of Client Engagements including results of surveys mesuring Our stakeholders, Our suppliers monitored using OTACE and customer satisfaction and business partners client satisfaction score, page 56 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 67 68 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT PRESENTED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 24, 2012 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT 69 4.1 General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year 70 4.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group Consolidated Financial Statements and outlook for 2012 73 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 75 4.4 Environmental and social impact of the Group’s operations 84 4.5 Financing policy and market risks 85 4.6 Financial authorizations 86 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 69 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year 4 4.1 General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year The return to growth perceptible from Spring 2010 in the OPERATIONS BY MAJOR REGION Group’s business sector continued throughout the year: the North American and Asian markets already headed in the France retained its number one spot among the Group’s regions right direction in 2010 continued their trajectory, the European in terms of revenues (€2,138 million, or 22.1% of the Group market enjoyed a return to dynamic growth, with the notable total), reporting an increase of 10.7% (and even 4.9% like-forexception of the Benelux countries. However, as in 2010, this like). The difference between the two rates is primarily due to recovery was not enjoyed evenly across the sectors: while the integration of Prosodie in the Group scope of consolidation financial services and the telecommunications and media from July. Excluding such changes in Group structure, the sector showed sustained growth, the public sector remained Technology Services business was the most dynamic. Sogeti depressed. also reported above-average growth for the four businesses. The France operating margin is €187 million (8.7% of revenues, In this contex t, Capgemini Group repor ted revenues of up 2.1 points on 2010). €9,693 million, up 11.4% on published ﬁgures for last year and even 5.6% like-for-like (that is at constant Group structure and The United Kingdom and Ireland repor ted revenues of exchange rates) –the majority of the difference between these €1,945 million in 2011 (20.1% of the Group total), up 1.7% two rates being attributable to the full-year consolidation of the (2% like-for-like). This limited growth was due once again Brazilian company, CPM-Braxis, acquired at the end of 2010. this year to the relative weakness of the public sector market This growth, which exceeds the objectives initially announced which, it should be remembered, accounts for three-quarters in February 2010 (of 4 to 5% like-for-like growth), conﬁrms the of our activity in this region. Thanks to the ramp-up of BPO, Group’s commercial momentum enjoyed across nearly all of Outsourcing Services reported growth of 2.7%. The operating its markets. margin is €139 million (7.1% of revenues), down 0.8 points on 2010. The operating margin rate for 2011 is 7.4%, signiﬁcantly up on North America reported revenues of €1,805 million in 2011 the 2010 rate (6.8%) and in line with the announced objective. (18.6% of the Group total), up 8.4% (11.5% like-for-like). As Operating proﬁt for ﬁscal year 2011 is €595 million, generating in 2010, project and consulting activities were extremely an operating proﬁt margin of 6.1% compared to 5.6% in 2010. dynamic, reporting growth of 17%, while Outsourcing Services revenues increased only 1.8% in the absence of any major new The net financial expense is €105 million (compared to contract wins. Overall, the proﬁtability of the region improved €87 million in 2010). The income tax expense is €101 million, signiﬁcantly, with an operating margin of €159 million or 8.8% after a net remeasurement of the US deferred tax balance of of revenues (5.2% in 2010), making this region the Group’s most €75 million. Profit for the year attributable to owners of the proﬁtable in 2011 Company is €404 million, up 4 4% on the 2010 figure of €280 million.1 Benelux (the Group’s fourth region, which at €1,266 million generates 13.1% of total consolidated revenues) suffered a The Group generated “organic free cash ﬂow1” of €164 million drop in activity of 3.7% (and 4.4% like-for-like). This region during the year. After a ﬁrst-half during which organic free cash remained depressed throughout the year, as the weakness of ﬂow was particularly low (structurally negative in the ﬁrst-half, the public sector was not offset by the private sector which also it was -€576 million compared to -€319 million in the ﬁrst-half lacked dynamism. The operating margin (€94 million, or 7.4% of 2010) mainly due to increased working capital requirements, of revenues) is down 2.3 points. At the end of 2011, the Group the second-half saw a strong upturn in the generation of organic decided a comprehensive reorganization of this region in a bid free cash flow to +€740 million. Accordingly, net cash and to return to a higher level of proﬁtability. cash equivalents totaled €454 million at December 31, 2011 compared to €1,063 million one year previously, with the The “Italy/Spain/Portugal + Latin America” region reported total decrease primarily due to acquisitions performed during the revenues of €1,000 million (10.2% of total Group revenues), with year (Prosodie for €376 million and nine other transactions for this 67% surge largely driven by the consolidation of CPM Braxis an aggregate amount of €198 million). in our accounts for a full year. On a like-for-like basis, revenue growth is still 8.5%. All countries in this region reported good growth; despite an extremely difficult economic environment, Spain reported growth in excess of 10% for its Consulting and Technology Services businesses, while the operating margin, at 3%, remained almost stable on last year (3.1%). The Nordic countries (Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland) 1 “Organic free cash flow” is equal to cash flow from operations less reported revenues of €635 million (6.6% of the Group total), acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets up 17.1% on 2010 (12.1% like-for-like). These figures reflect (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the net interest the strong recovery enjoyed in the region in 2011, following cost (as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows). 70 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year 4 the downturn in 2010 (and after restatement of exchange 1.7 points on 2010, thanks to the improvement observed across rate impacts and the contributions of IBX and Skvader). This all countries with the exception of the Benelux region. improvement is confirmed across all businesses. The good performance is reﬂected by an operating margin of €46 million Consulting Services, which reported revenue growth of 1.2% (7.2% of revenues), up 0.6 points on 2010. like-for-like, now represents only 5.3% of Group revenues. Of our four businesses, Consulting Services suffered the most The Germany/Central Europe region (Switzerland, Austria and as a result of public sector budget cuts, however, the growth Eastern European countries) also enjoyed a return to growth recorded in North America, Asia and the Nordic countries is after activity stabilizing in 2010: revenues totaled €626 million, considered highly satisfactory. The headcount was reduced up 17.3% on 2010 (6.1% like-for-like), and represented 6.5% of 6.1% year-on-year, enabling a utilization rate of 67.5% in the total Group revenues. Once again, all businesses participated in fourth quarter. Furthermore, selling prices were held at a level the recovery. However, at 6.9%, proﬁtability is down 2.1 points, more or less identical to 2010, these factors enabling Consulting mainly due to losses on Technology Services projects. Services to report a 1.1 point increase in the operating margin rate (12% in 2011, compared to 10.9% in 2010). The A sia /Pacific region (€278 million, 2.8% of Group revenues) is in a period of strong growth (+39.4% and 31.3% like-for-like, with the increase in the various regional currencies HEADCOUNT accounting for most of the difference between these two rates). The operating margin (€83 million) cannot be compared directly At December 31, 2011, the total Group headcount was 119,707 to revenues, as only sales to local clients are recognized in compared to 108,698 one year earlier. This 11,009 increase in this region, with internal sub-contracting revenues for clients employee numbers (+10.1%) reﬂects: belonging to other Group regions generally recorded in the • 35,871 additions, comprising: accounts of the region which invoices the client: however, part 32,713 new hires (12,462 in India, 4,268 for Sogeti and 1,421 of the margin realized with certain clients of other regions is in Poland, etc.); recorded in the accounts of the Asia/Pacific region, making and 3,158 transfers during the year in connection with (i) a direct interpretation of proﬁ tability ﬁgures for the different acquisitions (for example the 847 Prosodie employees) and (ii) regional components impossible. employee transfer clauses contained in certain Outsourcing Services contracts; • and 24,862 departures comprising: OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS 20,693 resignations (18.1% of the average headcount for the ﬁscal year); Technology Services (41.5% of Group revenues) remains the 50 transfers outside the Group following business divestments Group’s powerhouse, with like-for-like growth of 8.4%. This or at the end of certain Outsourcing Services contracts; growth triggered renewed recruitment in the Group’s historical 4,119 layoffs and unsuccessful trial periods. countries, as well as an increase in the utilization rate to 80.7% at the year-end, up 1.7 points on the rate at the end of 2010, which already represented an increase of 2 points on 2009. Prices continued to suffer downward pressure, although trends improved at the end of the year with erosion restricted to 1% for onshore Technology Services in the fourth quarter. At 6.8%, the operating margin is up 0.1 points on 2010, with the strong growth recorded in North America offset by downturns in a number of regions and particularly Benelux, the United Kingdom and Central Europe. Outsourcing Services (37.5% of Group revenues) reported revenue growth of 3% like-for-like. This lower rate of growth reflects the lack of major contract wins during the period. Nonetheless, the operating margin (7.7%) is up 0.6 points on 2010. Local Professional Services (Sogeti) is the third largest Group business, with revenues equal to 15.7% of total revenues, up 6.3% like-for-like. The utilization rate was held at a satisfactory level at the year-end (82.9%) and prices improved steadily throughout the period. The operating margin is 10.9%, up CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 71 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year 4 ORDER BOOK On June 24, 2011 Capgemini acquired Praxis Technology, a Beijing-based specialist provider of IT and consulting service New orders recorded totaled €9,903 million, down 8.4% (liketo the Utilities sector1 . Praxis Technology’s offering includes for-like) on last year. This decrease is mainly due to fewer new business management consulting services, Enterprise Resource orders being recorded by the Outsourcing Services business Planning (ERP) implementation services and application and than in 2010, when it benefited from the early renewal of software development services for leading Chinese utilities. several major contracts. The book-to-bill ratio of the three The acquisition of Praxis Technology fits perfectly with the other businesses (Consulting, Local Professional Services and Group’s strategic plan to intensively build its position in China Technology Services) is 1.12. and strengthens its position in the fast growing utility sector. The acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Praxis Technology was ﬁnanced by Group net cash. OTHER SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2011 On July 5, 2011, Capgemini acquired 100% of the share capital of the Italian IT service provider, AIVE Group. This strategic On January 26, 2011, Capgemini signed a three-year contract acquisition enabled Capgemini to strengthen its application with BC Hydro, the third largest electric utility in Canada. This portfolio as well as its SaaS (Software as a Service) positioning contract, worth CAD 63 million (approximately €48 million) and its market share in Italy. AIVE Group was acquired based forms part of BC Hydro’s Smart Metering & Infrastructure on an enterprise value of €40.3 million and was financed by program. Capgemini Group net cash. On February 4, 2011, Capgemini completed the acquisition On July 29, 2011, as announced on June 14, Capgemini completed in Germany of CS Consulting, one of the leading providers of the acquisition of Prosodie, a multi-channel services operator. consulting services in the banking and insurance sector. CS The transaction, for a total consideration of €376 million, was Consulting specializes in the migration of core banking systems ﬁnanced by Group net cash. This acquisition provided Capgemini and the implementation of business intelligence solutions. with access to the high value-added transaction solutions market. Prosodie joined the New Business Model (NBM) service line, the On March 2, 2011, Capgemini UK signed an outsourcing services aim of which is to develop services based on proprietary solutions contract with EDF Energy, one of the leading producers and invoiced on a pay-as-you-go basis. distributors of electricity in the United Kingdom. This three-year contract, with a renewal option for a further two years, is worth On September 21, 2011 Capgemini and EMC formed a global an estimated GBP 100 million (€120 million) over the period strategic alliance in cloud computing. This strategic alliance aims 2011-2015. to create a diversiﬁed cloud-based IT-as-a-Service offering. This new offering will enable customer companies to reduce costs On April 5, 2011, Capgemini announced the acquisition of and gain efﬁciency and business agility. By joining with EMC, the two French companies, Artésys and Avantias. Artésys is a global leader in information infrastructures, Capgemini aims to French leader in the design of infrastructure solutions, while expand its cloud-based business service portfolio worldwide. Avantias specializes in the implementation of Enterprise The ﬁrst offering rolled out was “Storage-as-a-Service”. Content Management (ECM) solutions. These two transactions strengthen the Group’s positioning in two highly dynamic market On November 18, 2011 , Capgemini launched a five-year segments in France and represent an integral part of its growth €500 million bond issue paying gross annual interest of 5.25%. program. These two acquisitions, ﬁnanced in full by Group net The transaction was settled on November 29, 2011. Placed cash, represented a total consideration of €42.7 million for with institutional investors following a series of meetings in the 100% of the share capital of each company. main European market places, the bond issue was three times over-subscribed. On May 5, 2011 Capgemini announced the acquisition of BI Consulting Group (BICG). This American IT service provider, On November 30, 2011, Capgemini extended its BPO contract based in Minneapolis, specializes in integration services for with International Paper, a global leader in the paper and customers who purchase Oracle Business Intelligence (BI) packaging sector. This contract, worth €42 million, covers and Enterprise Performance Management (EPM) solutions. the existing scope of Finance and Accounting (F&A) services BICG offers a comprehensive range of services, including already provided to International Paper and will bring the total implementation, support, training and software enhancement collaboration period to 19 years –one of the longest relationships services. This acquisition is consistent with the objectives of in the BPO sector. Capgemini’s external growth program and strengthens its positioning in the information management market. It was also ﬁnanced by Group net cash. 1 Public services companies operating in the water, energy, transportation or waste sectors 72 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Capgemini Group Consolidated Financial Statements and outlook for 2012 4.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group 4 Consolidated Financial Statements and outlook for 2012 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT The deferred tax income recognized in 2011 includes in particular the utilization of US deferred tax assets in the amount Consolidated revenues total €9,693 million for the year ended of $72 million (€52 million) and the remeasurement of the same December 31, 2011, up 11.4% on published ﬁgures for 2010 (5.6% US deferred tax in the amount of $177 million (€127 million). like-for-like), while operating expenses total €8,980 million, up This operation alone accounts for nearly the entire decrease 10.7% on 2010. in the effective tax rate which is 20.6% in 2011 (compared to 30.9% in 2010). An analysis of costs by nature reveals: • an increase of €623 million (+12%) in personnel costs, nonetheless Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company lower than the increase in the average headcount (114,354 is €404 million in 2011, up 44% on the proﬁ t of €280 million employees in 2011 compared to 97,571 in 2010, +17.2%). This was realized in 2010. Earnings per share is €2.59 (also up 44%) the positive outcome of continued strong “offshore” recruitment, based on 155,770,362 shares outstanding at December 31, 2011, particularly in India: at December 31, 2011, the Asia/Paciﬁc region compared to €1.80 in ﬁscal year 2010. comprised 39,097 employees (33% of the total headcount) compared to 33,655 (31%) one year previously, representing growth of 16%. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF • a decrease of 0.5 points in the “purchases/sub-contracting” FINANCIAL POSITION account (23% of revenues compared to 23.5% last year). • a moderate increase (6%) in travel expenses: at €391 million, they Equity attributable to owners of the Company totaled represent 4% of revenues, down 0.2 points on last year. €4,256 million at December 31, 2011, down €58 million on • an increase of 15% in rent and local taxes (3.3% of revenues, December 31, 2010. This decrease was mainly due to: up 0.1 points on 2010). • proﬁt for the year of €404 million, • the recognition in equity, in the amount of €224 million, of An analysis of costs by function reveals that: actuarial losses on provisions for pensions and other post• the cost of services rendered increased €794 million to employment beneﬁts, net of deferred tax and in the amount of €7,425 million, giving a gross margin of 23.4% (compared to €41 million, of fair value losses on cash ﬂow hedges primarily 23.8% in 2010); in India, net of deferred tax, • selling costs increased 9.7% to €746 million, remaining stable • the payment to shareholders of the 2010 dividend (€1 per in proportion to revenues at 7.7%; share) of €154 million in total • general and administrative expenses (€809 million) increased • the decrease in reserves (attributable to the owners of the only 1% and therefore fell as a percentage of revenues Company) of €64 million in respect of CPM Braxis S.A. (8.3% compared to 9.2% in 2010). following the recognition of an additional put option granted to minority shareholders (€34 million), the unwinding of the The operating margin is €713 million and represents 7.4% of discount on the first put option (€7 million) and the impact revenues (compared to €587 million and 6.8% of revenues last year). of the change in the Group’s percentage holding (56.06% to 61.10%) as a result of the share capital increase subscribed by Other operating income and expenses represent an overall shareholders (€23 million), net expense of €118 million in 2011 compared to €98 million last • the increase in translation reserves of €10 million, year. This €20 million increase was mainly due to the increase in • the increase of €11 million in incentive instruments, employee restructuring costs which rose from €71 million to €81 million. shareholding and treasury shares. Operating proﬁt is €595 million and represents 6.1% of revenues, Fixed assets increased €600 million on December 31, 2010, compared to €489 million and 5.6% of revenues last year. mainly due to: • an increase of €5 67 million in goodwill as a result of The net financial expense is €105 million in 2011 (including acquisitions performed during the ﬁscal year: €547 million purely notional expenses of €34 million), up €18 million on last overall, including €366 million in respect of the acquisition of year. This increase is mainly due to the inclusion of a full year of Prosodie and translation gains on existing goodwill balances interest on CPM Braxis S.A. borrowings in the Group accounts denominated in US dollar and pound sterling (€25 million), (consolidated in October 2010). • a net decrease in other intangible assets (€15 million), • a net increase of €48 million in property, plant and equipment, The income tax expense is €101 million (compared to €124 million mainly consisting of assets acquired during the year last year), including a current income tax expense of €129 million (€19 0 million) and assets “brought into the scope of (€71 million in 2010) and deferred tax income of €28 million consolidation” (€17 million), partially offset in the amount of (expense of €53 million in 2010). €133 million by the depreciation charge for the period. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 73 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Capgemini Group Consolidated Financial Statements and outlook for 2012 4 Operating receivables (accounts and notes receivable) totaled acquisition of Prosodie Group in the amount of €366 million; €2,685 million at December 31, 2011, compared to €2,371 million other acquisitions primarily concern CS Consulting, AIVE at December 31, 2010, representing an increase of nearly 13%. Group and Artésys in the amount of €111 million (net of cash Accounts receivable net of advances from clients and amounts and cash equivalents acquired), billed in advance totaled €1,909 million at December 31, • the payment to shareholders of a dividend of €154 million, 2011, compared to €1,678 million at December 31, 2010 and • a net increase in borrowings of €101 million, represented 70 days annual revenue (compared to 66 days at • a payment of €34 million received from CPM Braxis minority December 31, 2010). shareholders following their subscription of the BRL 80 million share capital increase performed in December 2011. Non-current liabilities increased €378 million at December 31, 2011 (to €2,754 million from €2,376 million last year), chieﬂy due to: OUTLOOK FOR 2012 • an increase of €33 million in long-term borrowings, mainly due to the reclassiﬁcation of OCEANE 2005 bonds in short-term Strengthened by investments in recent years, the Group is borrowings (€476 million) and a new bond issue performed in implementing strategic priorities that enable it to approach November 2011 (€495 million, net of issuance costs), 2012 with a certain degree of confidence. The good demand • an increase of €295 million in provisions for pensions and levels witnessed at the end of last year have not weakened other post-employment benefits, following a net actuarial at the beginning of 2012 and activity trends remain positive loss of €293 million in 2011, recognized mainly in the United in several major markets including North America. However, Kingdom and Canada and due to the decrease in the discount due to reduced visibility and the uncertain macro-economic rate applied to obligations at December 31, 2011, partially offset environment, the Group currently expects to report limited by the increase in the value of plan assets following the rally in organic growth in revenues (taking account in particular of the the ﬁnancial markets during the year, public sector cost cuts introduced in the majority of European • an increase of €43 million in other non-current liabilities, countries) and an increase in the operating margin rate. primarily due to the recognition of an additional put option granted to CPM Braxis minority shareholders in the amount of €34 million. Current liabilities increased €692 million at December 31, 2011 (to €3,977 million from €3,285 million last year), chieﬂy due to: • an increase of €492 million in short-term borrowings and overdrafts mainly due to the reclassiﬁcation in current liabilities of the OCEANE 2005 bonds (€476 million), • operating liabilities consisting mainly of accounts payables and related accounts, amounts due to members of personnel and accrued taxes (other than on income), which totaled €2,340 million at December 31, 2011, up €35 million on December 31, 2010, • an increase of €57 million in other current liabilities mainly attributable to derivative instruments. Consolidated net cash and cash equivalents totaled €454 million at December 31, 2011, compared to €1,063 million at December 31, 2010. This decrease of €609 million was mainly due to: • cash generated by operating activities of €349 million, the cash ﬂow from operations (€743 million) having been reduced by an increase in working capital requirements (€290 million) and income tax paid of €104 million. After interest paid (€30 million) and purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets net of disposals (€155 million), “organic free cash flow” generated in 2011 totaled €16 4 million (compared to €359 million in 2010 and €396 million in 2009), • cash outﬂ ows relating to acquisitions (net of cash and cash equivalents acquired) of €554 million and concerning the 74 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. 4 Financial Statements INCOME STATEMENT • and the June 9, 2011 dividend payment of €1 per share on the 155,770,362 shares making up the Company’s share The Company reported operating income for the year ended capital at December 31, 2010, representing a total payment of December 31, 2011 of €241 million (including €227 million in €154 million (taking into account the 2 million treasury shares royalties received from subsidiaries) compared to €202 million held by the Company at the dividend payment date). last year (including €201 million in royalties). Borrowings totaled €2,302 million at December 31, 2011, Operating proﬁt increased to €190 million thanks to the rise in up €885 million compared to December 31, 2010. This increase royalties received during the year, compared to €165 million in was mainly due to: 2010. • the €500 million euro bond issue performed in November 2011, • the €263 million increase in bank overdrafts on the accounts The net ﬁnancial expense is €2 million (compared to €41 million included in the Group’s cash pooling arrangement (Cash in 2010) and reﬂects: pooling international), for which the Company acts as the • income of €98 million, mainly comprising dividends received centralizing agent, offset in full by an opposite position of the from subsidiaries (€49 million), interest income on cash same amount in the cash and cash equivalents of the company, investments (€10 million), interest on loans granted to certain • the issue of commercial paper in the amount of €90 million, subsidiaries (€15 million) and finally provision reversals • the increase in outstanding inter-company loans in the amount (€20 million), of €129 million. • expenses of €100 million, mainly comprising the interest • f i n a l l y, t h e p a r ti a l re d e m pti o n i n N ove m b e r 2 01 1 of expense on the 2005 and 2009 convertible bond issues and the 2,350,000 OCEANE 2005 convertible bonds in the amount 2011 bond issue (€27 million), the amortization of the OCEANE of €98 million. 2005 bond redemption premium (€9 million) and charges to provisions for investments in subsidiaries (€38 million) and to Cash and cash equivalents net of borrowings totaled negative a provision for impairment of marketable securities (treasury €690 million at the end of 201 1, compared to negative shares) (€16 million). € 4 51 millio n at D e c e m b e r 31 , 2010. T his d ow ntu r n of This €39 million improvement in the net ﬁnancial expense year€239 million was mainly due to: on-year was mainly due to a decrease in charges to provisions for • payments relating to share capital increases carried out by investments in subsidiaries (which are only €38 million in 2011 several subsidiaries in the amount of €168 million, compared to €79 million in 2010). • a net increase in loans granted to certain subsidiaries in 2011 of €15 million, After a net non-recurring expense of €14 million compared to • an increase in current account advances to Group subsidiaries €3 million in 2010 and an income tax expense of €3 million in the amount of €165 million, mainly due to the acquisition of compared to income tax income of €16 million in 2010, the Prosodie; Company reported a net proﬁt of €172 million, up €35 million • payment of the 2010 dividend for €154 million, (25%) on 2010 (€137 million). • the collection of brand royalties for €245 million. In addition to the above, the following two items of information BALANCE SHEET are required by law: • E x te r n a l a c c o u n t s p ay a b l e of C a p G e m i n i S . A . tot a l Net investments rose from € 8,523 million last year to €1.433 million, 94% of which (€1.342 million) are not yet due. €8,692 million at December 31, 2011. This €169 million increase is Group accounts payable total €4.359 million, nearly all of which mainly attributable to: (€4.345 million) are not yet due. • two advances on capitalization of €116 million (including • Capgemini France S.A.S. acquired the French company, €104 million to a French subsidiary pursuant to the CPM Camélia Par ticipations S.A.S., which in turn owns Braxis share capital increase and €12 million to a Singapore Prosodie, a company specializing in the management of subsidiary), telecommunication, internet and payment transaction ﬂows • share c apital increases p er formed by four Europ ean for major clients. Capgemini Outsourcing Services S.A.S. and subsidiaries in the total amount of €52 million; Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S., both subsidiaries of • a net increase in loans granted to certain subsidiaries of Capgemini France S.A.S., acquired the French companies €14 million, Artésys and Avantias, respectively. • charges to and reversals of provisions for investments in subsidiaries in the net amount of €18 million. Shareholders’ equity is €8,218 million, up €21 million on last year. This rise essentially corresponds to the difference between: • proﬁt for 2011 (€172 million), CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 75 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4 APPROPRIATION OF EARNINGS Pursuant to Ar ticle L. 233-13 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), the Board of Directors informs During its meeting of February 15, 2012, the Board of Directors shareholders that, based on notiﬁcations received to date, no decided to recommend to the next Ordinary Shareholders’ shareholder held, directly or indirectly, more than 5% of the Meeting, the following appropriation of net proﬁt for the year: Company’s share capital and voting rights at the year end. Net profit for 2011 €171,563,263.44 During the ﬁscal year: • Alliance Bernstein L.P. reported to the Company that it fell below the 5% share capital and voting rights threshold on Allocation to the legal reserve €0 April 5, 2011, i.e. a balance of €171,563,263.44 • Amundi Asset Management reported that it successively exceeded on June 7, 2011 and then fell below on June 28, 2011 Retained earnings of previous years €387,512,560.04 the 5% share capital and voting rights threshold. i.e. distributable earnings at December 31, 2011 of €559,075,823.48 The breakdown of the Company’s share capital as known at December 31, 2011 is provided on page 222 of this Reference Document This amount will be allocated to: • payment of a dividend of €1 per share: €155,770,362.00 AUTHORIZATION TO BUY BACK THE • retained earnings for the balance: €403,305,461.48 COMPANY’S SHARES Giving a total of €559,075,823.48 Shareholders are reminded that last year, the Ordinar y Shareholders’ Meeting renewed the authorization granted to This dividend of €1 for each of the 155,770,362 shares bearing the Company to buy back its shares. This authorization was dividend rights on January 1, 2011, will be fully eligible for the used in 2011 in connection with the liquidity agreement entered 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2 of the French into on September 15, 2010. The purpose of this agreement is Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts). Taking account of to improve the liquidity of the Cap Gemini share and stabilize the recommendations of certain investors, and so as not to the share price. In 2011, a total of 4,522,181 shares were encourage security lending/borrowing transactions around purchased on behalf of Cap Gemini S.A., at an average price the date of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of €33.98 per share, representing 2.90% of the share capital of Directors proposes an ex-dividend date of June 4, 2012 at December 31, 2011. During the same period, 4,293,681 Cap and a dividend payment date of June 7, 2012. If, at the time of Gemini shares were sold at an average price of €34.17 per share, payment of the dividend, the Company still holds some of its own representing 2.76% of the share capital at December 31, 2011. shares, the dividend amount for these shares will be allocated At the year-end, the liquidity account balance comprised 403,500 to retained earnings. Furthermore, pursuant to Article 243 bis treasury shares (0.26% of the share capital) and approximately of the French Tax Code, dividends paid over the past three ﬁscal €2 million. years were as follows: Furthermore, after transferring 200,250 shares to employees • €155,770,362.00 for 2010 (€1 per share); and corporate officers during the year under the Group free • €123,341,916.80 for 2009 (€0.80 per share); share grant program, the Company held 1,799,750 of its own • €145,844,938 for 2008 (€1 per share). shares as at December 31, 2011, representing 1.16 % of the All of these dividends were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate share capital held following share buybacks performed between set out in Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code. January 17 and 25, 2008 at an average share price of €34.48. Overall, the Company therefore held 2,203,250 of its own shares SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERSHIP at December 31, 2011, representing 1.41% of the share capital STRUCTURE and a total value of €53,197,471, based on the closing price of the Cap Gemini share at this date of €24.145 As no movements were recorded in the Company’s share capital in 2011 (no stock options previously granted to Group As the authorization granted by the Ordinary Shareholders’ employees were exercised), the share capital of the Company Meeting last year is only valid for 18 months, we are asking at December 31, 2011 is unchanged on December 31, 2010, that shareholders to replace last year’s authorization with a similar is €1,246,162,896 consisting of 155,770,362 shares of €8 par authorization to allow the Company to: value each. • manage the secondary market and encourage the liquidity of the Cap Gemini share within the scope of a liquidity agreement; 76 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4 • grant shares to employees and corporate ofﬁcers, on the terms as part of a share capital increase reserved for employees and by the methods provided for by law, concerning the grant and corporate officers of the Company and its French and of performance shares or the set-up of a company savings plan foreign subsidiaries who are members of the Capgemini Group’s or an international employee share ownership plan; Company Savings Plans (Plan d’Epargne d’Entreprise). An initial • grant shares to holders of securities conferring entitlement to international employee shareholding operation in 2009 was the capital of the Company upon exercise of the rights attached subscribed to by nearly 14,000 Group employees in 19 countries, thereto in accordance with the applicable regulations; either directly or indirectly through a French collective employee • purchase shares to be retained with a view to remitting them shareholding vehicle (FCPE). In application of the provisions of in the future in exchange or payment for potential external Article L.225-102 of the French Commercial Code, the Board of growth transactions; Directors informs you that employees and corporate ofﬁcers • to propose at a later date to a Shareholders’ Meeting the who subscribed to this operation under a Capgemini Group adoption of an extraordinary resolution cancelling some or all Savings Plan, together held 3.4% of the Company’s share capital of the shares purchased. at December 31, 2011. To this end, the Board of Directors is seeking an authorization for the Company to buy back shares during the next eighteen On February 15, 2012, the Board of Directors decided the months, representing up to 10% of its share capital and at a principle of a further share capital increase reserved for maximum price of €55 per share, these purchases taking place employees, with similar characteristics to the operation within the scope of: performed in 2009. • Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (which also authorize the Board of Directors to cancel some or all of the shares purchased, representing up to 10% of its share ISSUE OF REDEEMABLE SHARE capital by 24-month period); SUBSCRIPTION OR PURCHASE • European Regulation No. 2273 of December 22, 2003 that WARRANTS (BSAAR) came into effect on October 13, 2004. The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 201 1 authorized the Board of Directors, for a period of 18 months, STOCK OPTIONS to issue Redeemable Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants (BSAAR) to employees and corporate ofﬁcers of the Group up The last stock option plan authorized by the Extraordinary to a maximum of one million shares (approximately 0.6% of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 12, 2005 (the 6th plan), expired share capital at December 31, 2011), representing a maximum on July 12, 2008. As the Board of Directors has not since sought par value amount of €8 million. This authorization was not used the plan’s renewal, no new stock options were therefore granted during ﬁscal year 2011 and the Board of Directors has decided by the Board during ﬁscal year 2011. not to ask you to renew this authorization at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. The Board of Directors would remind shareholders that in the event of a notice of authorization of a takeover bid or exchange offer for some or all of the Company’s shares published by the PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANT Eurolist market of Euronext Paris S.A., Group employees who still hold such stock options will be entitled, if they so wish, to We would remind you that the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting exercise all of their remaining unexercised options immediately of May 26, 2011 authorized the Board of Directors to grant without waiting for the end of the lock-in period speciﬁed at the performance shares, during a period of 18 months, to employees time of grant. of the Company and its French and foreign subsidiaries up to a maximum of one million shares. This authorization was As already indicated above: not used in ﬁscal year 2011. The Board of Directors asks you • no shares were subscribed in 2011; today to approve a new 18-month authorization replacing the • no further shares may be subscribed under the ﬁrst ﬁve plans authorization still in effect and increasing the maximum amount for which the subscription periods expired on November of shares to be issued to 1.5% of the share capital at the date of 1, 1995, April 1, 1999, April 1, 2002, December 1, 2006 and the grant decision by the Board of Directors. This authorization March 31, 2010, respectively. will replace the delegation of powers currently in effect. INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDING SYSTEM The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 201 1 authorized the Board of Directors to issue 6 million shares CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 77 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4 COMPENSATION OF THE TWO EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICERS (gross amounts) Compensation in respect of 2010 Compensation in respect of 2011 Total 2009 Paid Paid Total Paid Paid Total Serge Kampf: Chairman (Reminder) in 2010 in 2011 2010 in 2011 in 2012 2011 Gross fixed compensation 840,000 960,000 960,000 960,000 960,000 Variable compensation 399,000 Exceptional compensation Attendance fees Benefits in kind Value of options granted Value of performance shares TOTAL 1,239,000 960,000 960,000 960,000 960,000 Paul Hermelin: Total 2009 Paid Paid Total Paid Paid Total Chief Executive Officer (Reminder) in 2010 in 2011 2010 in 2011 in 2012 2011 Gross fixed compensation 1,320,000 1,320,000 1,320,000 1,320,000 1,320,000 Variable compensation 624,500 834,680 834,680 864,000 864,000 Exceptional compensation Attendance fees Benefits in kind 3,600 3,600 3,600 3,600 3,600 Value of options granted Value of performance shares TOTAL 1,948,100 1,323,600 834,680 2,158,280 1,323,600 864,000 2,187,600 2011 compensation of the Chairman 2011 compensation of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Mr. K ampf has always considered that a fun dam ent al management rule for a service company is the inclusion in a After noting that Mr. Hermelin’s variable compensation is based manager’s compensation of a variable component, the final 50% (V1 component) on a comparison of actual and budgeted amount of which is directly tied to the attainment of a number Group consolidated results and 50% (V2 component) on the of objectives –general and/or personal– set at the beginning attainment of a certain number of personal objectives set at the of the year (a rule which the Group has applied consistently for beginning of the ﬁscal year, the Board of Directors: more than 40 years for nearly all its managers). However, taking • veriﬁed that for Mr. Hermelin, as for the other key managers into consideration the pressure exercised on companies with of the Group, V1 is equal to 91.3% to of its theoretical value a “dissociated” Chairman to remove any variable component • validated the Selection & Compensation Commit tee’s from their compensation package, he therefore proposed appraisal of the degree of attainment of each of the six personal to the Board of Directors that his 2010 compensation solely objectives set for fiscal year 2011, resulting in a total mark comprise a ﬁxed amount, which after discussion with the Board awarded of 105 (out of a theoretical total of 100). was set at €960,000, representing a decrease of 31.4% on his 2009 theoretical compensation. Again at his proposal, this ﬁxed Mr. Hermelin’s compensation for fiscal year 2011 therefore compensation was maintained at the same amount for 2011. breaks down as follows: • ﬁxed compensation of €1,320,000 (60% of the theoretical total), The Board also took due note of Mr. Kampf’s decision to waive his which it should be noted is unchanged for the last ﬁve years, right to collect attendance fees as a Director of Cap Gemini S.A. • V1 compensation equal to 91.3% of €440,000, or €402,000, in respect of 2011, as he did for the last two years. • V2 compensation equal to 105% of €440,000, or €462,000, representing a total of €2,184,000, up 1.4% on his 2010 compensation (€2,154,680). In addition, the Board took due note of Mr. Hermelin’s decision to waive his right to collect attendance fees as a Director of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2011, as he did for 2010. 78 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4 2012 compensation Employment contract of executive corporate ofﬁcers The Board accepted –following the acceptance by the Selection & Compensation Committee– the proposal of Messrs. Kampf After noting that Mr. Paul Hermelin’s employment contract was and Hermelin to maintain their respective compensation levels suspended in its entirety on May 24, 1996 (date from which unchanged in 2012 (with new personal objectives being set for Mr. Hermelin exercised his ﬁrst term of ofﬁce as a member of Mr. Hermelin for the calculation of the V2 variable component the Management Board), the Board of Directors also noted that of his 2012 compensation). it decided in 2009, upon a recommendation by the Selection & Compensation Committee, to maintain jointly his term as corporate ofﬁcer and his employment contract. This decision Additional comments regarding the was based on the desire to maintain for this executive corporate compensation of these two executive ofﬁcer his entitlement to pension beneﬁts, given his seniority in corporate ofﬁcers the Group (19 years at March 1, 2012) and the services he has rendered to the Company. The Board wishes to emphasize that It should be noted that: this decision was in no way motivated by a desire to maintain • as has always been the case in Capgemini Group, Messrs. for his benefit any entitlement to a severance pay provision Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin did not receive any beneﬁts stipulated in his employment contract (his contract does not in kind (medical assistance, housing, private use of company contain any such provision) and that the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer cars, cell phone, free use of products or services, etc.) during does not enjoy any speciﬁc compensation clause in the event 2011, nor did they beneﬁt from any speciﬁc provision related of his early departure at the initiative of the Board. In keeping to indemnities for termination for any reason whatsoever with this measure, Mr. Hermelin has made a commitment to (removal from ofﬁce, resignation, retirement, etc.), with the the Board of Directors to waive his employment contract when sole exception of contributions paid by the Company for he reaches the age at which he may legally exercise his right to Mr. Paul Hermelin’s unemployment insurance underwritten retire. by the “Garantie Sociale des Chefs d’Entreprise” (these contributions totaling €3,600 are presented in the table on As for Mr. Kampf, founder and executive corporate ofﬁcer of the page 85 in “Beneﬁts in kind”); Group for nearly 45 years, he has never held nor been proposed • in 2011, for the 23 rd consecutive year, Mr. Serge Kampf an employment contract. decided not to ask the Company to reimburse the expenses he incurred in the performance of his duties (business travel, entertainment, etc.), with the exception of TGV train travel between Paris and Grenoble, the historical headquarters of Cap Gemini, where he has kept his main ofﬁce and where part of the Group’s corporate affairs are still conducted; • Mr. Serge Kampf has never been awarded (and has never requested) any stock options or performance shares; • Mr. Paul Hermelin was not granted any performance shares by the Board of Directors in 2011; • At the end of the 2-year vesting period in March 2011, a total of 25,000 shares out of the 50,000 shares subject to performance and presence conditions initially allocated in March 2009 under the ﬁrst performance share plan, deﬁnitively vested to Mr. Paul Hermelin. Application of the performance calculation led to the deﬁnitive vesting of only 50% of the initial theoretical amount. In addition, Mr. Hermelin is required to hold these shares until the later of the end of the two-year legal lock-in period and the expiry of his term as corporate ofﬁcer. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 79 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4 Indemnities and benefits following Indemnities Supplementary appointment, in respect of Executive corporate officers: employment contracts Employment pension scheme termination or non-compete and deferred compensation contract (see below) change in function clause Serge Kampf Chairman Term of office renewed on May 27, 2010 and ending No Yes No No at the 2014 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the 2013 accounts Paul Hermelin Chief Executive Officer Term of office renewed on May 27, 2010 and ending Yes Yes No No at the 2014 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting called (March 1993) to approve the 2013 accounts Other compensation Attendance fees and other compensation received by corporate ofﬁcers In 2006, Cap Gemini set up a supplementar y collective deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme for certain senior executives Readers are reminded that Messrs. Kampf and Hermelin regarded as having made a signiﬁcant and lasting contribution voluntary waived their right to collect attendance fees as to the Group’s development, which was reviewed to ensure it Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2011 (in the same complied with AFEP-MEDEF’s subsequent recommendations. way as for 2010 and 2009). In effect, the beneﬁciaries of this scheme are persons deemed to have made a major contribution to the Group’s business The eleven non-executive corporate officers received no over at least ten years and having ended their career within additional compensation other than the attendance fees the Company. In addition, this scheme stipulates certain limits indicated below: ensuring that the amount of the supplementary pension may not exceed 40% of the beneﬁciary’s reference earnings and the Amount Amount beneﬁciary’s cumulative pension beneﬁts from all mandatory awarded in awarded in and top-up schemes may not exceed 50% of his/ her reference (in euros) respect of 2010 respect of 2011 earnings. Reference earnings are calculated by taking average Serge KAMPF 0 0 compensation over the final employment years capped at Daniel BERNARD 63,500 57,000 60 times the annual ceiling set by the French Social Security. Therefore, in order to receive the maximum pension amount, Yann DELABRIERE 61,000 66,000 beneficiaries must have between 25 and 30 years’ service Laurence DORS 21,000 45,000 depending on the circumstances. An external ﬁrm was asked Paul HERMELIN 0 0 to review this scheme and conﬁrmed that it complied with the Michel JALABERT 68,500 72,000 recommendations published by AFEP-MEDEF on October 6, Phil LASKAWY* 44,500 48,000 2009 concerning the compensation of executive corporate Bernard LIAUTAUD * 70,000 60,000 officers of publicly listed companies. It should be noted that Thierry de MONTBRIAL 6 1 ,500 5 1 ,000 based on the number of years’ service upon retirement of the Ruud van OMMEREN* 65,000 69,000 two corporate officers, the projected replacement rate will Terry OZAN* 51,500 5 1 ,000 be between 39% and 40% of the reference earnings and the Pierre PRINGUET 57,500 57,000 estimated cost of one year of service for all Executive Corporate Bruno ROGER 60,500 57,000 Ofﬁcers may be estimated at €1.2 million for 2011. TOTAL 624,500 633,000 * As required by law, the Company deducted withholding tax on the amounts paid to these four non-resident beneficiaries. 80 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4 The Board of Directors decided to continue paying the Attendance fees paid to directors and non-voting directors for two non-voting directors for 2011 (as in previous years) the same 2011 therefore amount to €633,000 + €89,000 = €722,000€ attendance fees as the directors. They therefore received the (or €654,250 after deduction of withholding tax on the amounts following compensation in respect of the last two years: paid to non-resident beneﬁciaries). The rules governing the allocation of these attendance fees are presented in Chapter 5.3 – Compensation of directors, non(in euros) 2010 2011 voting directors and executive corporate ofﬁcers – of the Special Pierre HESSLER 38,000 46,000 Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Geoff UNWIN ** 36,000 43,000 TOTAL 74,000 89,000 ** As required by law, the Company deducted withholding tax on the amounts paid to this non-resident beneficiary. Stock subscription options, stock purchase options and performance shares The following tables present a breakdown of stock options and performance shares granted to the two executive corporate ofﬁcers and historical information on stock options granted: Value of shares calculated using the method Performance shares granted during Theoretical adopted in the the year to the two executive maximum number consolidated corporate officers by Cap Gemini S.A. Plan date and of shares granted financial Potential vesting Potential and/or any other Group company number during the year statements date availability date Serge KAMPF n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Number of options Stock options vested during the year Plan date and exercised during to the two executive corporate officers number the year Strike price Exercise period Serge KAMPF n/a n/a n/a n/a Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a Number of shares Performance shares vested to the Plan date and vested during the two executive corporate officers number year Vesting conditions Year of grant Serge KAMPF n/a n/a n/a n/a st Performance and Paul HERMELIN 1 Plan 25,000 2009 presence CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 81 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4 Historical information concerning stock options granted to corporate officers Date of Shareholders' Meeting 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 Grant date 10/01/2006 04/01/2007 10/01/2007 06/01/2008 Plan number 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan Total number of shares granted 2,067,000 400,000 1,932,500 219,000 o/w granted to Serge Kampf (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) o/w granted to Paul Hermelin (*) 50,000 0 0 0 o/w granted to the ten employees 200,000 86,000 114,000 60,000 receiving the greatest number of shares Start of exercise period 10/01/2007 04/01/2008 10/01/2008 06/01/2009 Expiry date 09/30/2011 04/01/2012 10/01/2012 06/01/2013 Subscription price (in euros) 43 55 44 40.5 Exercise conditions 10% after 1 year, 30% after 2 years, 60% after 3 years and 100% after 4 years ( ) * Complete historical information on stock options granted and still available for exercise is provided on pages 185 to 187 and 230 of the Reference Document. Stock options granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate ofﬁcers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate ofﬁcers) having thus subscribed for the greatest number of shares are as follows: Total number of Stock options granted to/exercised by the ten employees (nonstock options Weighted average corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares granted / exercised price Plan number Options granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees of all eligible companies having received the n/a n/a n/a greatest number of shares Options exercised (held previously on Cap Gemini S.A.) by the ten Group employees having exercised the greatest number n/a n/a n/a of shares Performance shares granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate ofﬁcers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of performance shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate ofﬁcers) holding the greatest number of vested shares are as follows: Performance shares granted/vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having Total number of Plan number received the greatest number of shares shares vested / granted Performance shares granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten n/a n/a employees of all eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares Shares available (held previously on Cap Gemini S.A.) to the ten Group employees 57,500 1 st Plan holding the greatest number of vested shares 82 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4 DIRECTORSHIPS AND OTHER AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE 19 OF THE FUNCTIONS HELD BY CORPORATE BYLAWS TO ALLOW SHAREHOLDERS OFFICERS TO VOTE USING THE INTERNET The list of directorships and other functions held by each of the The so-called New Economic Regulations Law (NRE) of May 15, corporate ofﬁcers in other companies is provided on pages 225 2001 and the Decree of May 3, 2002 authorized shareholders to 228 of the Reference Document. to vote by email prior to Shareholders’ Meetings (voting by correspondence was renamed “remote voting”), as well as to vote during Meetings using all means of telecommunication or APPOINTMENT OF A DIRECTOR teletransmission. However, remote voting by email and voting REPRESENTING EMPLOYEE during Shareholders’ Meetings requires prior amendment of the SHAREHOLDERS PURSUANT TO Company’s Bylaws. So that the Board of Directors may in the future decide the use of these shareholder voting methods when ARTICLE 11-5 OF THE BYLAWS convening a Shareholders’ Meeting, should it so wish, we propose Last year, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting amended the adoption of a resolution amending Article 19 of the Company’s Article 11 of the Company’s Bylaws, to allow for the appointment Bylaws accordingly. The form of this Article has been redrafted of an employee shareholder director and to set out the slightly to facilitate its reading. conditions for this appointment. Accordingly, two candidates for the position of director are presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting: TRANSACTIONS CARRIED OUT IN • one of these candidates was nominated by the members 2011 BY MEMBERS OF THE BOARD of the Supervisory Boards of each of the Fonds Commun OF DIRECTORS AND OTHER SENIOR de Placement d’Entreprise (French collective employee MANAGERS INVOLVING CAP GEMINI shareholding vehicles, or “FCPE”) through which employees SHARES hold their Cap Gemini shares: Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, • the other candidate was nominated by a vote of employee Transactions carried out in 2011 and 2012 by directors and shareholders who hold their Cap Gemini shares directly and senior managers involving the Company’s shares, based on AMF residents of countries not permitting shares to be held through disclosures and Article 223-26 of the AMF’s General Regulations, an FCPE. Carla Heimbigner. may be summarized as follows: Mr. Serge Kampf (Chairman of In so far as Lucia Sinapi-Thomas was nominated by the Fonds the Board of Directors) sold: Communs de Placement d’Entreprise, which together hold • 50,000 shares at a unit price of €42.16 and 50,000 shares at 2.85% of the Cap Gemini share capital and represent 11,800 a unit price of €42.77 on February 17, 2011, employees, while Carla Heimbigner was nominated by employee • 37,752 shares at a unit price of €39.15 on June 24, 2011, shareholders holding directly their shares and representing • 14,500 shares at a unit price of €39.10 on June 28, 2011, 0.5% of the Cap Gemini share capital and 1,145 employees, • 10,825 shares at a unit price of €33.10 on February 23, 2012, it appeared both natural and logical to the Board of Directors • and 157,587 shares at a unit price of €33.10 on February 29, 2012. –as permitted by Article 11-5 of the Company’s Bylaws– to indicate its preference for Lucia Sinapi-Thomas’ candidature, by approving the resolution concerning her. RENEWAL OF THE TERMS OF OFFICE OF THE TWO NON-VOTING DIRECTORS The terms of ofﬁce of the two non-voting directors (Pierre Hessler and Geoff Unwin) were renewed for a period of two years at the Combined Shareholders’’ Meeting of May 27, 2010: these two terms of ofﬁce therefore expire today and the Board of Directors proposes their renewal for a further period of two years. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 83 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Environmental and social impact of the Group’s operations 4 4.4 Environmental and social impact of the Group’s operations A specific chapter of the Reference Document (entitled “Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability”, pages 33 and seq.), explains Group policy with regard to the environment, human resources (changes in headcount, career development, role of the Capgemini University) and its relations with external business partners (customers, suppliers and the general public at large). 84 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Financing policy and market risks 4.5 Financing policy and market risks 4 FINANCING POLICY AND FINANCIAL MARKET RISKS RATING Currency risk, interest rate risk, equity risk, liquidity risk and Financing policy credit risk are set out in Notes 9, 17 and 19 to the consolidated Capgemini’s ﬁnancing policy is intended to provide the Group ﬁnancial statements of the Capgemini Group in this Reference with adequate ﬁnancial ﬂexibility and is based on the following Document. main criteria: • a moderate use of debt leveraging: over the last ten years Capgemini Group has strived to maintain at all times a limited level of net debt (and even a positive net cash position) including in the manner in which it ﬁnances its external growth. • diversiﬁed ﬁnancing sources adapted to the Group’s ﬁnancial proﬁle: Capgemini seeks to maintain a balance between bank ﬁnancing (including the syndicated credit line, use of leasing to ﬁnance property and IT equipment) and market ﬁnancing (issue of OCEANE bonds convertible and/or exchangeable for new or existing shares for €437 million in June 2005 and €575 million in April 2009; euro bond issue performed in November 2011 for €500 million (see Note 17 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements). • a good level of liquidity and durable ﬁnancial resources, which means: maintaining a high level of available funds (€2,297 million at December 31, 2011), supplemented by a €500 million multicurrency syndicated line of credit secured on January 13, 2011 and maturing on January 13, 2016 and backed by a €550 million commercial paper program; ﬁnancial liabilities (excluding accounts payable) with only a limited portion falling due within 12 months: 16% after the redemption on January 2, 2012 of the remaining OCEANE bonds issued in 2005 in the amount of €400 million. Financial rating The Group’s ability to access ﬁnancial and banking markets and the cost of accessing such markets depends in least in part on the credit rating attributed by the rating agency Standard & Poor’s: on January 21, 2008, the latter attributed Cap Gemini the long-term credit rating of BBB(stable outlook), which has not since changed. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 85 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Financial authorizations 4 4.6 Financial authorizations AUTHORIZATION TO CANCEL SHARES an aggregate issuance amount of €3.5 billion for securities PURCHASED UNDER THE BUYBACK granting access to the Company’s share capital or granting a PROGRAM right to allocation of debt instruments. As stated above, the Board of Directors is seeking shareholders’ Your Board of Directors did not use any of these delegations of authorization to cancel some or all of the shares purchased authority in 2011. The Board of Directors asks shareholders to pursuant to Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial renew all of these authorizations, unchanged and for a period of Code (the authorization to buy back shares is described in 26 months, to replace the current delegations of authority which section 4.3 page 76 of this report), for up to 10% of its share remain in effect until July 27, 2012. capital by 24-month period. Finally, in accordance with the AMF recommendation of July 6, 2009 –and desirous to always respect both the principles DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY TO of transparency and good governance and shareholder rights– INCREASE THE SHARE CAPITAL we present for your vote speciﬁc resolutions for each type of operation and, in particular: Pursuant to the delegations of authority given to the Board • two separate resolutions authorizing issues, without preof Directors by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of emptive subscription rights, in the form of a public offering in May 27, 2010, the Board was granted a 26-month authorization the ﬁrst case and a private placement in the second; (expiring therefore July 27, 2012) to: • two separate resolutions authorizing issues, without pre• increase the share capital by capitalizing reserves; emptive subscription rights, as payment for shares tendered • issue ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the to the Company under a public exchange offering launched Company’s share capital or granting a right to allocation of debt by the Company (up to a maximum par value amount of instruments, with pre-emptive subscription rights; €185 million, representing approximately 15% of the share • issue ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the capital) in the ﬁrst case, and in consideration for contributions Company’s share capital or granting a right to allocation of debt in kind made to the Company (up to a maximum of 10% of the instruments, without pre-emptive subscription rights, in the share capital) in the second. form of a public offering or a private placement; • increase the amount of the issues if the requests for shares The share capital issues that may be carried out pursuant to exceed the number of shares on offer, up to 15% of the initial these delegations of authority which you are asked to approve issue and at the same price as for the initial issue (“Greenshoe” today, would be offset against the following ceilings: options); • a maximum aggregate par value amount of €185 million, or • issue shares and/or securities granting access to the approximately 15% of the share capital, and an aggregate Company’s share capital or granting a right to allocation of issuance amount of €1.25 billion for all issues performed debt instruments, as payment for shares tendered to a public without pre-emptive subscription rights, that is (i) issues exchange offer made by the Company or contributions in kind performed by way of a public offering or private placement to the Company of shares or securities granting access to the at a price at least equal to the weighted average price of the Company’s share capital. Company’s shares during the three trading days preceding the date on which the price is set, potentially reduced by a discount The overall limits on the amounts of the issues that could be of up to 5%, and (ii) issues as payment for contributions in decided pursuant to the delegations of authority given to the kind made to the Company or shares tendered to any public Board were set at: exchange offering launched by the Company; • a maximum par value amount of €1.5 billion for share capital • a maximum aggregate par value amount of €500 million increases paid up by capitalizing reserves; (unchanged on the previous delegation) and an aggregate • a maximum par value amount of €500 million for share issuance amount of €3.5 billion (unchanged) for all issues capital increases with pre-emptive subscription rights, and a of ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the maximum of €3.5 billion in total issuance amounts; Company’s share capital or granting a right to allocation of debt • a maximum par value amount of €185 million for share capital instruments, with or without pre-emptive subscription rights increases without pre-emptive subscription rights, and a Over-allotment options (“Greenshoe” options) will of course be maximum of €1.25 billion in total issuance amounts; included in these ceilings. • a maximum aggregate par value amount of €500 million and 86 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 4. MANAGEMENT REPORT Financial authorizations 4 In the event of a share capital issue in the form of a public offering with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, the Board of Directors has the power to provide for a priority right for shareholders, during the period and by the methods it deems ﬁt. Should the Board of Directors use one or other of these delegations of authority, the Statutory Auditors will issue a special report for the attention of the Shareholders’ Meeting. A table summarizing the delegations of authority and powers granted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to the Board of Directors with regard to share issues is provided on pages 218 to 220 of the Reference Document. This Report, drafted and presented to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 on behalf of the Board of Directors by its Chairman, Mr. Serge Kampf, was the subject of specific verifications by the Statutory Auditors which issued a report on the results thereof (see their report in Chapter 6.1 page 114). CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 87 4 88 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 89 5.1 The Board of Directors and its activities 91 5.2 Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees 96 5.3 Compensation of Directors, non-voting Directors and executive corporate ofﬁcers 99 5.4 General organization of the Group 100 5.5 Internal control and risk management procedures 103 5.6 Statutory Auditors’ report 111 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 89 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 5 To the Shareholders, I would remind you that this Special Report, which supplements the traditional Management Report that I presented to you on behalf of the Board of Directors (see pages 69 to 87 of the Reference Document) was drawn up pursuant to: • the requirements of Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) (as amended by the Law of July 3, 2008, the Order of January 22, 2009 and the Law of January 27, 2011), • the recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code issued in December 2008 by AFEP and MEDEF (French private business associations) and updated on April 2010, • and the rules of good governance applied and complied with by the Group for more than 40 years. I have divided this Report into ﬁve sections: • the Board of Directors and its activities • the role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees, • the compensation of directors, non-voting directors and executive corporate ofﬁcers, • the general organization of the Group, • internal control and risk management procedures. 90 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors and its activities 5.1 The Board of Directors and 5 its activities Legal structure Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, as recently made possible Created in Grenoble in October 1967, the Company and the Group by the New Economic Regulations Law (NRE).I considered that it formed were managed for nearly 30 years by a “traditional” after creating, expanding, leading and managing the Group limited liability company (société anonyme). Throughout this for 35 years, the time had come for me to give more power period, I was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and and visibility to the person who, from 1999, I considered the major shareholder, controlling directly and then indirectly the best qualified to succeed me one day. This two-man team majority of the share capital. At the end of this initial period, has now been operating efficiently and in harmony for more Capgemini comprised 25,000 employees and reported annual than 10 years and legally may continue until the Combined revenues of approximately FRF 13 billion (€2 billion). Shareholders’ Meeting in the Spring of 2014, called to approve the 2013 ﬁnancial statements, marking the simultaneous end of On May 24, 1996, under the combined pressure of the two both our current terms of ofﬁce. other major shareholders at the time (Daimler-Benz and CGIP), who convinced me that in the interests of Capgemini This being said –and as I highlighted last year (*)– the smooth Group, its financial capacity should no longer be limited to functioning of this team is more closely tied to the long-standing that of its founding Chairman, I ﬁnally recommended that the relationship of trust, friendship and mutual respect between Shareholders’ Meeting approve the merger-absorption of SKIP Paul Hermelin and myself than what legislation says regarding and SOGETI (the two holding companies which had until then the respective roles, powers and responsibilities of the Chairman allowed me to retain majority control of the Group) within a new and the Chief Executive Officer. Certain directors have even company, Cap Gemini S.A. with a Management Board, which observed that the very general drafting of this law could one I chaired and a Supervisory Board initially chaired by Klaus day –for example should one or other of us no longer be part of Mangold and then after the exit of the shareholder Daimlerthis two-man team– become a source of ambiguity, confusion Benz by Ernest-Antoine Sellièere, the Chairman of CGIP. and possibly even conflict. I do not therefore exclude the possibility that after having enjoyed the beneﬁts of “separation” On May 23, 2000, at the same time as the integration within for 10 years, I may decide to propose to the Board of Directors our structures of Ernst & Young Consulting (which almost to return to a “traditional” limited liability form (i.e. in which doubled the size of the Group), the need to return to the the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are previous governance structure of a “traditional” limited liability exercised by a single individual) and concomitantly appoint Mr. company became apparent with, this time, the appointment of Paul Hermelin as Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. I would a General Manager, Geoff Unwin, replaced by Paul Hermelin on remain at his side and be available if necessary, while continuing January 1, 2002. to work in the interests of the Group, both within the Board of Director and in the business world at large. On July 24, 2002, I took the initiative to recommend to the (*) see 2010 Financial Report / Reference Document, page 108. Board of Directors which accepted to split the functions of In the meantime, we can say that there have been four main periods in the governance of the Group: Duration Period Legal form Group Management 29 years From creation (1967) “Traditional” Limited liability company Chairman and Chief to May 24, 1996 (Société Anonyme) Executive Officer: Serge Kampf No General Manager 4 years From May 24, 1996 Limited liability company with a Management Board Management Board with to May 23, 2000 and a Supervisory Board (Societe a Directoire et Conseil 4 members: Serge Kampf de Surveillance); the Supervisory Board was initially (Chairman) chaired by Klaus Mangold (Daimler-Benz) and then Paul Hermelin, Pierre by Ernest-Antoine Seilliere (C.G.I.P.) Hessler and Geoff Unwin from September 8, 1997 2 years From May 23, 2000 Return to a “traditional” Limited liability company Chairman and Chief Executive (merger with Ernst & Young (Société Anonyme) Officer: Serge Kampf Consulting) General Manager: Geoff Unwin to July 24, 2002 (until December 12, 2001) and then Paul Hermelin 10 years From July 24, 2002 to date Limited liability company (Societe Anonyme) with Chairman: Serge Kampf separation of the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Chief Executive Officer Paul Hermelin 45 years CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 91 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors and its activities 5 Composition of the Board of Directors managers and, more generally, to deal with any issues that arise The term of ofﬁce of members of the Board of Directors, which in respect of the day-to-day operation of the Group. The Board was initially six years, was reduced to four years by decision pays particular attention to the management of the Group’s of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2006, in 120,000 employees and thousands of managers across the response to the legislator’s desire to more frequently offer globe, given Capgemini’s business as a service provider. The shareholders the opportunity to decide on the composition of Board takes decisions collectively and seeks to comply with and the Board which represents them. ensure compliance with all rules of good governance together with a certain number of values which each Board member Thirteen directors currently sit on the Board of Directors of has solemnly undertaken to respect. A “Code of Business Cap Gemini S.A.: Ethics” was drafted at its initiative and distributed to all Group • two of these directors, Bernard Liautaud and Pierre Pringuet, employees (and is signed by all new recruits) with the following were appointed at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of main objectives: April 30, 2009 and their terms of ofﬁce will therefore expire • ensure all Group companies comply with a certain number of next year, the day of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held rules of good behavior and primarily that of perfect integrity in in the Spring of 2013; the conduct of business and the management of employees, • two additional directors, Daniel Bernard and Thierry de • implement measures stopping, ﬁghting and sanctioning nonM o n tb ria l , were initially appointed at the C ombined compliance with the core values of the Group, or prevailing laws Shareholders’ Meeting of May 12, 2005 and their terms of ofﬁce and regulations in the country concerned, were renewed for a further four years at the same Combined • provide an institutional framework for the actions, controls Shareholders’ Meeting on April 30, 2009. Their terms of ofﬁce and dissuasive measures required to deal with the problems will therefore also expire the day of the Combined Shareholders’ identiﬁed by these measures. Meeting held in the Spring of 2013; It is not incidental to note that each of the 13 directors signed this • eight other directors, who have been Board members for several Code, evidencing their support (both individual and collective) years, saw their terms of office renewed at the Combined for all the measures contained therein. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010 for a period of four years, therefore expiring in the Spring of 2014, the day of the Combined Meetings Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the 2013 financial The Board meets at least six times a year. Meetings are statements: the directors in question are Yann Delabrière, Paul convened by the Chairman in accordance with a timetable Hermelin, Michel Jalabert, Serge Kampf, Phil Laskawy, Ruud decided by the Board before the end of the prior year. However, van Ommeren, Terry Ozan, and Bruno Roger. this timetable may be amended during the year in response • the thirteenth director was elected by the same Combined to unforeseen circumstances or at the request of more than Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010 to replace Jean-Rene one director. In 2011, the Board met eight times (four times Fourtou, who did not seek the renewal of his term of office. during the ﬁrst six-months and four times during the second The term of ofﬁce of the director in question, Laurence Dors, six-months), representing a total of 104 theoretical attendances will also expire in the Spring of 2014, at the same time as the for all directors. The average attendance rate was 88% (92 out above eight directors. of 104 attendances), with each of the 12 absences noted due to cases of force majeure. The Board of Directors is assisted by two non-voting directors The Notice of Meeting, which I generally send to directors 15 days who were previously directors and who were appointed nonbefore the meeting date, contains the agenda determined after voting directors in July 2002. The non-voting directors are consultation with the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and any directors Pierre Hessler and Geoff Unwin, who replaced Phil Laskawy who have proposed speciﬁc points to be discussed by the Board. (a non-voting director subsequently appointed director) and If the agenda includes questions requiring specific analysis, Chris van Breugel. Their terms of office were renewed for a a memorandum or supporting documentation prepared by period of two years at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting members of Group Management is sent to directors prior to the of May 27, 2010 and therefore expire today. The Company’s meeting (or is handed to them at the beginning of the meeting) directors have on several occasions indicated their satisfaction providing them with the information they need to form an opinion with the contribution of the two non-voting directors to Board on the issue (provided there is no risk that sensitive information, meetings (the attendance rate for non-voting directors was quite or any information that should remain conﬁdential prior to the remarkable in 2010 at 94% !), but reserve the right to hold all or Board meeting, could fall into the hands of anyone other than part of these meetings in their absence. the members of the Board). Directors are also sent or handed a summary report comparing the share price of the Cap Gemini The role of the Board of Directors share to that of various general and sector indexes and to its The principal role of the Board of Directors is to determine the main competitors and, where appropriate, a table providing a key strategies of Cap Gemini S.A. and its subsidiaries, to ensure breakdown of the last known consensus. that these strategies are implemented, to validate the legal and operational structure of the Group and the appointment of key 92 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors and its activities 5 Operating rules focus of this assessment was to analyze the activities of the For many years, the Company’s Board of Directors has applied Board today and to compare them with its activities three the best governance practices now recommended by the AFEP/ years ago. From this point of view, the general conclusion of the MEDEF corporate governance code. Accordingly, the Board has: summary report was as follows: • prepared, adopted, applied (and amended where useful or • signiﬁcant progress has been achieved in the way the Board necessary) highly detailed Internal Rules of Operation (see operates, below); • further improvements could be achieved in certain areas, and • set up four specialized Board Commit tees –the Audit particularly the organization and monitoring of Committee Committee, the Selection & Compensation Committee, the activities. Ethics & Governance Committee, and ﬁnally the Strategy & In terms of progress achieved, all directors noted and Investments Committee– and given each a clearly defined appreciated the efforts of the Chairman (and also the Chief role (see section 2); Executive Officer) to take account of the recommendations • adopted a system for allocating attendance fees, whereby the made three years previously and thereby improve the operation majority of such fees are indexed to attendance at Board and and working conditions of the Board: Committee meetings (see section 3); • Board meetings are considered more animated and open • periodically reviewed the personal situation of each director to discussion and each Board member makes an increased in light of the definition of independence provided under contribution to strategic planning; French corporate governance guidelines (a director is • with regards to understanding the Group’s businesses and independent when he/she has no relationship of any sort competitive position, the level of information provided has with the Company, the Group or its Management, that is considerably improved: the Barcelona Meeting (which brought likely to impair his/ her judgment) and the numerous criteria together 450 Group managers in October 2010) brought applied in the different countries in which the Group operates. participants up to speed on technological developments and Based on the aforementioned reviews, the Board considers how they are taken on board by the Group; that ten out of the thirteen directors qualify as independent • with regards to strategic planning, a clear majority of members (Daniel Bernard, Yann Delabriere, Michel Jalabert, Phil Laskawy, considers that the Board’s contribution has increased, while Bernard Liautaud, Thierry de Montbrial, Ruud van Ommeren, expressing a generally positive opinion on the usefulness of Terry Ozan, Pierre Pringuet and Laurence Dors). the Strategy & Investments Committee, whose new Chairman is unanimously appreciated. The vast majority of directors Self-assessment procedure consider they have a clearer picture of the various strategic Again within the framework of these best governance practices, directions open to the Group than three years previously and the Board has performed on three occasions (in 2005, 2008 recognize the efforts of Group Management to clarify the and 2011) a self-assessment of its operations and the impact choices available and inform them of their consequences; of its decisions. Each director was presented with a detailed • signiﬁcant improvements were identiﬁed in the organization of questionnaire validated upfront by the Board. This questionnaire the Board’s activities: documents useful to the preparation of and the individual responses of directors were then used as Board meetings are communicated earlier (such that directors the basis for two-hour interviews with each director, aimed have more time to prepare the meetings and can provide at gathering their comments and proposals on a completely more relevant contributions), discussions are conducted in anonymous basis. For the purposes of the 2011 self-assessment, a satisfactory manner, the allocation of roles between the carried out by Jean-Philippe Saint-Geours, a partner with the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is well respected and consulting ﬁrm Leaders Trust International, the questionnaire their good relationship is evident and a guarantee of efﬁciency, was divided into ﬁve sections: etc. • understanding of the Group’s businesses, its management and • risk management is unanimously considered to be under tight its competitors, etc. control, with the Audit Committee and its Chairman inspiring • strategy, considerable conﬁdence in all Board members; • the Board of Directors’ activities • a large majority of Board members considers the Board’s • risk management. composition to be satisfactory: they did not consider the • the composition of the Board of Directors and Board members’ introduction of “nationality quotas” to be desirable, as renewals compensation. of terms of office in recent years have favored additional Each of these sections contained numerous questions (between diversity beneﬁcial to a richer quality of debate. 8 and 15 for the most detailed), including an open question In terms of improvements that may still be made, it is encouraging respondents to add any specific comments for emphasized that the signiﬁcant progress achieved on the prior two sections. In addition, each of the four Specialized Board assessment does not preclude certain directors from wishing Committees received a specific tailored questionnaire. An further efforts in some of the following areas: analysis of the information collected from the questionnaires • the Board would like even more comprehensive information and the one-on-one interviews was summarized in a report and true monitoring instruments covering the roll-out of the submitted by Mr. Jean Philippe Saint-Geours to the Board on strategy adopted by the Group. Extremely rapid changes June 22, 2011, when it was discussed at length. The primary in markets and technologies are sometimes difficult for CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 93 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors and its activities 5 Board members (who come from a variety of professional of such operations. With the exception of the Chairman and backgrounds) to follow and they have asked for “ongoing the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, the directors have no individual training” in these areas to enable them to more precisely power and actions and decisions must therefore be taken on assess the competitive position of the Group; a collective basis. • the time devoted to the presentation by the Specialized • The role of the four Specialized Board Committees is to study Committees of their activity reports is considered somewhat and document the issues that the Board has scheduled for insufﬁcient; discussion and to present recommendations on the subjects • Board members would like a better balance between ﬁnancial and sectors within their remit to plenary sessions of the Board. issues and operational and strategic issues in meeting agendas; The Committees are consultation bodies and therefore hold no • with regard to other issues, such as the human resources policy decision-making powers. Their members (and the Chairman) (particularly concerning key managers) and the identiﬁcation are appointed by the Board of Directors and are selected of risks and the risk management policy, directors wish better exclusively from among Cap Gemini S.A. directors and noncoordination between the Board and Specialized Committees voting directors. They are appointed in a personal capacity and (Selection & Compensation, Audit). may under no circumstances be represented at the meetings of the Committee(s) to which they belong. The Board reserves Internal rules of operation the right to amend at any time the number and/or make-up of When the legal form of the Company returned to that of a these Committees, as well as the scope of their duties. Finally, traditional limited liability company (société anonyme) in May the Internal Rules of Operation of each of the four Committees 2000, a new set of Internal Rules of Operation were debated and –and any amendments thereto which the Committee may later adopted by the Board of Directors. These rules have since been propose– must be formally approved by the Board. amended three times: • The Chairman represents the Board of Directors and prepares, • on July 24, 2002, following the decision to separate the organizes and leads its work. He sets the date and agenda of functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the meetings, ensures that directors are able to carry out their definition of conditions enabling the Board to go back on duties and have all information necessary for this purpose, this decision (notice period, two-thirds majority of members and oversees the proper operation of the Company’s bodies, present, etc.) the correct implementation of Board decisions and compliance • on July 25, 2006, to incorporate a number of amendments and with the rules of good conduct adopted by Cap Gemini. He acts additions primarily concerning: as a liaison between Board members and Group Management the possibility of holding Board meetings using video and to this end, stays constantly informed of the Group’s conference or telecommunications facilities; position and decisions made (or planned) which are likely the main obligations under the Code of Business Ethics with to have a major impact on business. He chairs Combined which directors and non-voting directors of Cap Gemini S.A. Shareholders’ Meetings, to which he reports on the activities undertake to comply throughout their term of ofﬁce; and decisions of the Board of Directors. the requirement for directors to inform the French stock • The Vice-Chairman: in the absence of the Chairman and market authority (Autorité des Marchés Financiers), and for the duration of this absence the Chairman’s powers the Company itself –directly or indirectly through the are exercised by a Vice-Chairman appointed by the Board of intermediary of their ﬁnancial managers– of any transactions Directors in accordance with the possibility granted by the they may have carried out involving the Company’s shares Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010. At the end of within ﬁve trading days of the execution of such transactions; this Combined Shareholders’ Meeting and after re-electing me an update to the rules governing share trading; as Chairman, the Board of Directors –at my recommendation– • on June 9, 2010, to incorporate new provisions concerning: elected Paul Hermelin to this position, while conﬁrming him in decisions requiring the prior authorization of the Board of his functions as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Directors, • The Chief Executive Officer has the most extensive powers the role and responsibilities of the Specialized Board to act in all circumstances in the name of the Company. The Committees. Internal Rules of Operation stipulate nonetheless that he must These amended Internal Rules of Operation set out or clarify seek and obtain prior approval from the Board of Directors –or the scope of (and bases for exercising) the various powers from its Chairman acting under delegated powers– for any entrusted to the Board of Directors, the four Specialized Board decision which is of major strategic importance or which is Committees, the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman and the Chief liable to have a material impact on the financial position or Executive Ofﬁcer. commitments of the Company or those of one or more of its principal subsidiaries. This applies in particular to: • The Board of Directors represents shareholders and its the approval and update of the three-year plan based on the principal role is to determine the key strategies of the Company, strategy approved by the Board, to monitor their implementation, to ensure the smooth running the conclusion of strategic alliances, of the day-to-day operations of the Company and to resolve, significant changes to the structure of the Group or to its through deliberations, any issues that may arise in respect range of business activities; 94 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors and its activities 5 signiﬁcant internal restructuring operations and/or changes to the make-up of the group management team (including Strategic Business Unit Managers) that he wishes to make, ﬁnancial transactions with a material impact –or a potential material impact– on the ﬁnancial statements of the Company or the Group (in particular the issue of securities conferring immediate or future access to the share capital, or issues of market debt instruments); acquisitions or disposals of assets or investments not recorded in the budget, individually wor th more than €100 million and subject to a cumulative annual ceiling of €300 million, increases or reductions in the share capital of a direct subsidiary of Cap Gemini S.A., concerning an amount in excess of €50 million, speciﬁc authorizations concerning the granting of pledges, security and guarantees. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 95 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees 5 5.2 Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees Some twelve years ago in May 2000, I proposed to the Board prepare the annual and half-year consolidated and company of Directors the creation of three specialized Committees (an ﬁnancial statements, to check the efﬁciency of internal control Audit Committee, a Selection & Compensation Committee and risk management procedures, to ensure by all means the and a Strategy & Investments Committee). Each Committee quality of information presented to the Board and finally to would be tasked with studying in-depth certain speciﬁc matters present to the Board its assessment of the various engagements as well as reviewing and preparing the corresponding Board carried out by the Statutory Auditors and give its opinion on discussions in plenary session, submitting proposals to the whether their audit engagement should be renewed. Board, and providing advice and recommendations to the Board The Audit Committee currently has four directors: Yann on decisions to be made. The initial appointment of directors Delabrière (Chairman), Michel Jalabert, Phil Laskawy and and non-voting directors to these Committees was decided by Pierre Pringuet. It met six times in 2011, with an average the Board of Directors at its meeting of September 13, 2000, attendance rate of 79% (19 out of 24 attendances). following which each Committee drafted speciﬁc Internal Rules The Committee reviewed the company and consolidated of Operation deﬁning its roles and responsibilities. financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 Following the appointment on May 12, 2005 of two new directors and the consolidated financial statements for the half-year (Daniel Bernard and Thierry de Montbrial) and a new non-voting ended June 30, 2011. It focused in particular on the accounting director (Marcel Roulet), the Board of Directors decided on treatment of events with a material impact on the annual or July 27, 2005 to reallocate the directors and non-voting directors half-year financial statements (such as the consolidation of to these three Committees, appointing three or four directors to CPM Braxis) and on changes in working capital requirements, each one and in certain cases a non-voting director. the treatment of deferred tax and the ﬁnancial impact of the UK At its meeting of July 26, 2006, the Board adopted my employee pension plan. It also reviewed the way in which the recommendation to set up a fourth Committee called the Ethics proper performance of a certain number of major contracts is & Governance Committee, whose terms of reference encompass determined. The Committee interviewed: all matters relating to the legal or operational organization of • Philippe Christelle, Internal Audit Director, questioning him the Group (previously included in the brief of the Selection & on working methods, terms of reference, the findings of Compensation Committee) and decided that it was appropriate audits carried out during the year and any avenues for further that I chair this Committee. improvement; Following the appointment of two new directors at the Combined • François Hucher, Technical Director in charge of support Shareholders’ Meeting of April 30, 2009 (Bernard Liautaud and services, IT and procurement, questioning him in particular Pierre Pringuet) and the expiry on the same day of the term of on operations and developments at production centers, on the ofﬁce of Marcel Roulet, a non-voting director (who did not seek results of audits performed by the so-called “ﬂying squads” reappointment), the Board of Directors decided on June 17, on risk-sensitive topics and ﬁnally on the program to reduce 2009 to appoint Bernard Liautaud to the Strategy & Investments production costs through the better reuse of existing tools; Committee and Pierre Pringuet to the Audit Committee. • Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, Corporate Finance Director in charge After the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010 of Risk Management in the pre-sale phase, questioning her renewed the terms of ofﬁce of 8 of the 12 directors and appointed on the way in which major business proposals are dealt with, Laurence Dors as a new director (to replace Jean-René Fourtou on potential strategic partnership arrangements and on who did not seek reappointment), the Committee –on June 9 framework client or supplier contracts with certain speciﬁc and December 15– reviewed all of these appointments characteristics and as such, subject to the prior approval of and reiterated that in order to comply with the principle of the Group Review Board. collective decision-making, the Committees must, under no Finally, the Committee reviewed various recapitalization projects circumstances, usurp the power of the Board which has sole for certain subsidiaries and presented its opinion to the Board decision-making power and that the directors are collectively on the utility of these capital contributions and the means of responsible for the decisions made and the duties entrusted their performance. to them by law and/or the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. The Statutory Auditors also issued recommendations to the Audit Committee to make the accounting and financial procedures, which they already consider “extremely good”, even more efﬁcient. The Audit Committee In accordance with the Order of December 8, 2008 and the The Selection & Compensation Committee AMF recommendation of July 22, 2010 issued following the report of the Audit Committee working group, the role of the This Committee is tasked with monitoring the human resources Cap Gemini S.A. Audit Committee is to control the processes policies applied by Cap Gemini S.A. subsidiaries to executive governing the preparation and distribution of accounting and managerial positions (executive appointments, additional training, ﬁnancial information, to assess the appropriateness and the changes in theoretical and actual compensation, setting objectives consistency of the accounting policies and methods used to to determine the variable portion of compensation, criteria for the 96 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees 5 grant of performance shares, career and succession planning, The Ethics & Governance Committee etc.) and making sure that the policy is both consistent –while complying with speciﬁc local requirements– and closely aligned The main remit of this Committee (created in July 2006 by with individual and collective performances in the Business Unit decision of the Board ) is to verify that the Group’s seven to which the manager concerned belongs. It is consulted by Group core values (Honesty, Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit, Management prior to any decisions concerning the appointment Modesty and Fun) are correctly applied and adhered to, or replacement of Executive Committee members and Strategic defended and promoted by the Group’s corporate officers, Business Unit directors. It informs the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of its senior management and employees in all of its businesses and recommendations concerning proposals made by him in relation to in all subsidiaries under its control, in all internal and external the ﬁxed and variable compensation of these managers. It presents communications –including advertising– and in all other acts to the Board its opinion on the recommendations regarding the undertaken in the Group’s name. It is also tasked more generally Chairman’s proposals concerning the compensation, personal with overseeing the application of best corporate governance objectives and performance of the Chief Executive Officer and practice within Cap Gemini S.A. and its main subsidiaries. its own recommendations on the Chairman’s compensation The Ethics & Governance Committee is responsible for all structure and the amount thereof. Finally, the Committee reviews matters relating to the selection, appraisal, independence the various schemes enabling employees to share in Group proﬁts and compensation of the Company’s directors and non-voting (performance share grants, Group savings schemes, etc.) and directors. It must keep up-to-date (and be ready to implement) proposes to the Board of Directors the incentive instruments it the list of measures to be taken, should the question of replacing considers appropriate and capable of being implemented in all (or the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer suddenly arise. certain) Capgemini Group companies. It must handle and propose to the Board any changes it The Selection & Compensation Committee currently has four considers appropriate or relevant to the Board’s operation and directors: Ruud van Ommeren (Chairman), Michel Jalabert, composition (co-opting a new director or replacing a resigning Terry Ozan and Pierre Pringuet and a non-voting director, director, increasing the proportion of female directors, etc.) or to Pierre Hessler. This Committee met five times in 2011, with an the governance structure currently in force within the Group (for average attendance rate of 92% (23 out of 25 attendances). example, switching back to a traditional legal form combining the In accordance with the Committee’s remit, it ensured throughout functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer), etc. 2011 the consistency of the Group’s senior executive management The Ethics & Governance Committee currently has three and compensation policy. Its Chairman regularly reported on the directors: I am the Chairman and the two other members Committee’s work and presented recommendations to the Board are Daniel Bernard and Bruno Roger. On the creation of this of Directors concerning the following areas: Committee, I wanted Paul Hermelin to be a permanent guest if • the general compensation policy of the Group and its he could not be a member. He accepted this invitation and has subsidiaries; since continued to attend meetings. This Committee met three • the compensation of the two executive corporate officers times in 2011, with an attendance rate of 100%. (the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer) and that of The Committee interviewed: the members of the Executive Committee and the Group • Philip p e Ch ris te lle , the Internal Audit Director, who Management Board. These recommendations focused at the presented a special report describing the ethical framework beginning of the year on: within which the Group has decided to operate, as well as an appraisal of the individual performance of each of these instances of non-compliance (often involuntary), changes managers compared with objectives set at the beginning of the and updates performed during 2011 and identifying a certain year; number of potential improvements in the follow-up of audit calculation of the variable portion of compensation paid in the recommendations. ﬁrst quarter of the next year; • Hervé Canneva, the Group Ethics and Compliance Officer, adjustment of the fixed and two variable portions of the appointed by the Committee on March 1, 2009, who presented “theoretical” compensation for the following year; a report on the ongoing distribution of the Code of Business setting objectives to be used at the end of the current year as a Ethics adopted by the Group and translated into 13 languages basis for calculating the actual variable portion due. (a paper copy of this Code was sent to all key managers of the The Committee also monitored the development and succession Group accompanied by a letter from Mr. Hermelin, while an plans for executives of the Group’s Strategic Business Units electronic version was communicated to all employees with and performed an extensive review of all the systems in place at a link to an e-learning module aimed at the appropriation of each Strategic Business Unit and at Group level to identify highthis Code by all employees; implementation of a mandatory performing individuals, develop retention schemes, and ensure procedure requiring the signature of this Code by all new internal mobility. employees) and the training program aimed at establishing and strengthening throughout the Group perfect integrity in the conduct of business and awareness of the importance of adopting at all times a behavior in accordance with Cap Gemini CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 97 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees 5 ethics. This report also highlighted the results of a study More generally, the Committee identifies and deliberates showing the high rate of commitment of Group managers to on any direction or issue considered relevant to the Group’s the Code of Business Ethics. It also referred to the distribution future, provided it does not compromise the smooth running in the ﬁnal quarter of 2011 of a document on the Group’s antiof operations and guarantees operating and ﬁnancial stability. corruption policy to all Group employees and the progressive The Strategy & Investments Committee currently has six implementation in the main countries of an advice and directors: Bernard Liautaud (Chairman), Daniel Bernard, professional warning procedure for employees (the “Raising Laurence Dors, Paul Hermelin, Thierry de Montbrial and Concern Procedure”). Bruno Roger and a non-voting director, Geoff Unwin. This Finally, the Committee discussed the composition of the Board Committee met four times in 2011, with an attendance rate of of Directors and particularly the principle of equal representation 100%. The Committee spent most of its time preparing the of men and women, as well as the Board’s activities and discussions and activities of the Board which held a day-and-aexamined a variety of possible general governance scenarios half “Strategy Seminar” at the Méry-sur-Oise Chateau in June for the Group. 2011 to discuss the following issues: • the relevance of strategic objectives, • a review of actions undertaken since the Barcelona Meeting The Strategy & Investments Committee (which brought together 450 key Group managers in October 2010), The role of this Committee is to: • the identiﬁcation of new challenges currently facing the Group • study in-depth the strategic options open to the Group to or which it will face in the future (e.g. cloud computing), ensure its continued growth, improve its profitability and • a permanent review of the competitive environment and the maintain its independence; market outlook, • determine the amount of investments required to implement • comments on the strategy currently followed with regard to the each of these possible strategies; downturn in the economic environment, etc. • identify and assess the alliances or acquisitions which would It also per formed a detailed review of several potential appear able to facilitate or accelerate the implementation of acquisitions and recommended to the Board the deﬁnition of these strategies; limits within which potential negotiations should take place. • ﬁnally, recommend a choice to the Board (or at least establish an order of priority). 98 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Compensation of Directors, non-voting Directors and executive corporate ofﬁcers 5.3 Compensation of Directors, non-voting 5 Directors and executive corporate ofﬁcers In compensation for the time spent actively participating in With respect more speciﬁcally to the two executives who are Board and Committee meetings and in very partial consideration also corporate ofﬁcers, the Board veriﬁed and had it conﬁrmed for the directors’ increasing responsibilities, the Company was that in France, in a limited liability company (société anonyme) authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, governed by French law, the compensation of the Chairman 2011 to pay attendance fees to directors of up to €800,000 per and the Chief Executive Officer is determined freely by the year. The Board of Directors decided, following my proposal, to Board of Directors, pursuant to “exclusive” powers clearly return to paying a ﬁxed portion and therefore to adopt a formula defined by Articles L.225-47 and L.225-53 of the French for allocating attendance fees based on the following principles: Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and that these exclusive • payment once again of a ﬁ xed portion: €15,000 per year to powers confer an institutional –and not a contractual– each director, €10,000 per year to each non-voting director nature on this compensation. The determination and review (i.e. two-thirds of the amount allocated to directors), €15,000 of this compensation is not subject to regulated agreement per year to the Chairmen of the specialized Committees and procedures, provided, of course, it is speciﬁcally paid for the €30,000 per year to the Chairman of the Board; performance of corporate ofﬁcer duties and in consideration for • retention of a ﬁxed amount of €3,000 for each attendance at actual services rendered to the Company. This is obviously the an ofﬁcial meeting of the Board or one of the four specialized case for Cap Gemini’s two executive corporate ofﬁcers, it being Committees (no distinction being made here between directors noted that the rules applied to determine their compensation and non-voting directors). This ﬁxed amount may be reduced are identic al to th ose ap plie d for all G roup mana gers if circumstances require the Company to hold an exceptional (a breakdown of compensation paid to Paul Hermelin and myself number of meetings, resulting in aggregate attendance in respect of ﬁscal year 2011 is presented in the section entitled fees exceeding the threshold authorized by the Combined “Compensation of the two executive corporate ofﬁcers” page 78, Shareholders’ Meeting. of the Management Report). • the payment of attendance fees for the half-year then ended, as opposed to once per annum at the year end. In this respect, it should be noted that Paul Hermelin and myself spontaneously decided to waive for 2011 (in the same way as for 2010 and 2009), our right to receive attendance fees for our duties as directors of Cap Gemini S.A., a decision warmly received by the Board. In application of the above, attendance fees paid to directors and non-voting directors in respect of ﬁscal year 2011 totaled €722,000 (€376,000 for the ﬁrst-half and €346,000 for the second-half), representing only 90% of the ceiling authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 99 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS General organization of the Group 5 5.4. General organization of the Group Cap Gemini S.A. is the parent company of what is generally Useful for reporting purposes and comparing performance known as “the Capgemini Group” comprising approximately year-on-year, this geographic grouping is accompanied by a 189 companies, which are listed on pages 173 to 175 of this breakdown of the Group by business into six strategic business Reference Document (after removing dormant companies and units: companies in the course of dissolution. • 4 global strategic business units: Consulting Infrastructure Services, i.e. the design, installation and OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE maintenance of client IT infrastructures BPO (business process outsourcing) I would remind you, should this be necessary, that one of the Local Professional Ser vices, provided by the SOGETI founding principles underlying the creation of this Group is sub-group and its subsidiaries decentralization. This seeks to ensure that operating managers • 2 systems integration and applicative maintenance strategic act as entrepreneurs, taking each year the risk to commit to a business units in the following regions and countries: budget and personal and collective objectives. They are provided Application Services One: North America, UK and the Asia/ by the Company with the means necessary to react rapidly to Paciﬁc region (excluding China), including global responsibility market requirements, changes in demand and the opportunities for the Financial Services sector; offered by technological innovation which, in our businesses, is Application Services Two: France, Benelux, the Nordic particularly rapid and abundant. countries, Germany and Central Europe and Southern Europe. Today, the organizational structure of the Group remains In addition to these six Strategic Business Units, the Group based on this decentralized model, with basic business units has three units dedicated to the operational development of deliberately kept small to allow their managers to remain in new regions (China, Latin America) and New Business Models close contact both with clients and employees of their allocated (including Prosodie). region. With access to numerous management tools and the daily monitoring of results obtained (contracts signed, activity rates, progress on contracts in progress, etc.), these managers GROUP MANAGEMENT are fully responsible for their business units meeting quantiﬁable objectives relating to ﬁnancial performance (growth, proﬁtability, As I already indicated above: etc), the quality of human resource management (recruitment, • in December 2001, the Cap Gemini S.A. Board of Directors training, motivation, good match of employees to the business decided to replace Geoff Unwin by Paul Hermelin as Chief unit’s needs, etc,), business development, client satisfaction, Executive Ofﬁcer of the Group. management rigor (administrative and accounting), strict • he has been renewed in these functions twice (in May 2006 application of internal control procedures, absolute compliance and May 2010) with the values adopted by the Group, etc. • at my recommendation, the Board elected in July 2002 to separate the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer These basic business units –grouped, depending on their as authorized by the New Economic Regulations Law (NRE) of number, into larger business units –reﬂect the Group’s presence May 15, 2001. in around forty countries, which are in turn grouped into eight geographic areas: Paul Hermelin has now therefore been Chief Executive Ofﬁcer • North America: USA, Canada; of the Capgemini Group for over ten years. Pursuant to the law, • the United Kingdom and Ireland; he has the most extensive powers to act in all circumstances • France, to which Morocco is associated; in the name of the Company and its subsidiaries. He is • Benelux; currently assisted in the conduct of business, the monitoring of • Nordic countries: Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland; control procedures and the realization of strategic objectives • Germany and Central European countries: Switzerland, Austria, (periodically reviewed by the Board) by: Poland, Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, etc.; • Nicolas Dufourcq, Deputy General Manager, who in addition to • Southern Europe (Italy, Spain, Portugal) and Latin America: his primary role as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer performs a number Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, etc.; of other duties which are detailed below; • and finally the Asia/Pacific region: India, China, Singapore, • Alain Donzeaud, General Secretary in charge of Human Hong-Kong, Australia. Resource management, Capgemini University, legal affairs and controlling the application of prevailing ethical rules within all Capgemini Group companies. All three individuals are permanent members of the Executive Committee, whose role is to assist Group Management deﬁne broad strategies for submission to the Board of Directors, make 100 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS General organization of the Group 5 all decisions enabling an improvement in Group performance, “Lean” program launched by the Group last year, procurement, determine in this context the actions to be undertaken and the internal information systems and finally the Production / priorities to be respected, coordinate their implementation, Methods and Support department. Headed by François Hucher, assess the performance of Group managers and prepare this department is tasked with designing and disseminating succession plans for major positions within the organization. prevailing methodologies within the Group, certifying certain The Executive Committee meets once a month with: categories of employee (project leaders, architects, etc.) and • the Global Sales and Portfolio Director performing audits of risk-sensitive projects conducted by • the Development Director specialized teams known as “ﬂying squads”. • the Marketing and Communications Director • the Strategy Director • the Director of our operations in India The General Secretary • the Directors of the 6 strategic business units detailed above representing a total of 14 individuals. This position is currently occupied by Alain Donzeaud (who, after much consideration, has unfortunately decided to retire Together with the International Legal Director, all three take part before the end of 2012), who is responsible for: in two special-purpose committees: • Legal affairs, covering two departments: one dealing with • the Group Review Board which –with the Director in charge of all legal matters related to the Group’s operating activities risk management in the pre-sale phase and the Global Sales (Isabelle Roux-Chenu) and the other concerned with the and Portfolio Director –examines the major business proposals functioning of the Group’s governing bodies (the Board of in the course of drafting or negotiation, multi-national or multiDirectors, specialized Board Committees, Shareholders’ business framework agreements entered into with clients or Meetings, etc.) and in charge of legal matters impacting the suppliers, major contracts involving guarantees given by the general Group structure (Philippe Hennequin); Group etc. • The Human Resources Department, which is tasked with • the Merger & Acquisitions Committee which examines coordinating policies that fall within its remit implemented by acquisition and divestment projects in the course of the Group’s subsidiaries, in particular career management identification, selection, assessment or negotiation, with and employee retention policies for high potential managers the assistance of the Strategy and Transformation Director, (Jérémy Roffe-Vidal); the Merger and Acquisitions Director and the Director of the • Capgemini University, which is tasked with providing Group Business Unit which would perform the transaction in question. managers and employees with the additional training they require (in new technologies and commercial functions, largeFinally, in a certain number of cases where it was considered useful scale project management skills, personal leadership skills or necessary (and particularly in the Group’s main countries), a development, etc.) and also forms a natural and convivial board was appointed bringing together local managers of the platform for exchange for all Group members (Jacques Collin different Group businesses and tasked with ensuring improved and Steven Smith); cooperation (particularly with respect to actions carried out • The Ethics & Compliance Department whose primarily task individually by one or other business for the major clients is promoting and ensuring compliance by all Group entities appearing in a list drawn up at the beginning of the year). with a corporate culture and a duty of integrity that requires all 120,000 Group employees to behave in an ethical manner. It implements initiatives aimed at consolidating prevention THE CENTRAL DEPARTMENTS methods and avoiding any infractions or non-compliance in this area (Hervé Canneva). Group Management is assisted by the following central departments: The Global Sales and Portfolio Department The Group Finance Department Headed by Paul Nannetti, this department encompasses: • the management of client offerings and the launch of growth Headed by Nicolas Dufourcq, the primar y tasks of this initiatives; department are the preparation of budgets and monitoring • relationships with major strategic and technological partners performance, management control, operational reporting, of the Group (Jean-Claude Viollier); financial and management accounting, consolidation and • the stimulation and promotion of Group offerings in the accounting standards, treasury management, taxation, and following sectors: Utilities / Distribution & Consumer Goods / ﬁnancial communications. As Deputy General Manager, Nicolas Telecommunications / Public sector – Taxation and Public Dufourcq is also responsible for conducting merger, acquisition Security (Stanislas Cozon); and divestment transactions and managing the risks presented • the deﬁnition and standardization of sales support processes. by certain business proposals. He is also responsible for the CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 101 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS General organization of the Group 5 The Strategy Department The Technology Department Headed by Cyril Garcia, is primarily tasked with fostering (Andy Mulholland) is tasked with identifying major technological deliberations on strategic issues by Group Management, the developments, fostering an active relationship with the Board of Directors, its Chairman and the Strategy & Investments Group’s major partners (for example by identifying common Committee. To this end, it maintains close relations with leading development projects) and assisting with the development of ﬁrms specializing in analyzing the market and trends therein. commercial offerings calling on advanced solutions. The Development Department The Internal Audit Department (Aymar de Lancquesaing) is tasked with enhancing Group (Philippe Christelle) reports directly to the Chairman and offerings, selecting investments in the “solutions” sector and the Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer and is tasked with controlling the implementing our intellectual property policy. correct application by business units of Group principals and rules, particularly with respect to risk management and control. The implementation of recommendations issued by the The Marketing and Communications Internal Audit Department by the business units concerned is Department systematically monitored. (Philippe Grangeon) is responsible for the Group’s internal and external communication and is tasked with coordinating actions implemented in this area by operating subsidiaries as well as their marketing deliberations and initiatives and proposing a selection of “sponsoring” choices. 102 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Internal control and risk management procedures 5.5. Internal control and risk management 5 procedures Fiscal year 2011 was marked by the implementation of For over 20 years, a set of rules and procedures known as systems and procedures which contributed to strengthening the “Blue Book” has had force of law within Cap Gemini and the uniformity of processes within the Group while deﬁning a its subsidiaries. The Blue Book reminds employees of their tailored level of control. obligations in this area and inventories the tools and methods The following actions may be highlighted: helping them avoid identiﬁed risks in the exercise of the Group’s • the drafting and communication within the Group of an antibusinesses. The ethics system founded on the Group’s values corruption code aimed at all employees and supplementing and the Code of Business Ethics was supplement in 2011 by an the Code of Business Ethics issued in 2010, Anti-Corruption Code. This system seeks to: • th e ro llo u t of a g l o b a l t a l e n t s m a n a ge m e n t s y s te m • develop within new recruits an ethical culture guaranteeing encompassing the monitoring of the performance and career integrity of behavior; of all Group employees, • raise awareness of compliance with international and national • the refining of reputation risk management, particularly laws; through the monitoring of social networks and paying close • highlight initiatives aimed at strengthening the system to attention to opinions voiced by Group employees, prevent and avoid infractions, non-compliance and negligence • ﬁnally, the continued transformation of the ﬁnance function in these areas. with: the roll-out of a single integrated management system For over 30 years, the Capgemini Group has had a central Internal the transfer of subsidiary accounting services to shared Audit function which currently comprises a multidisciplinary service centers. team of 25 auditors and whose Director, Philippe Christelle (see Section 5.4), reports directly to both the Group’s Chairman and These actions help standardize processing and procedures its Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Over the last few years, this team has within the Group and strengthen the Capgemini internal control become highly international to accompany the expansion of the environment. Group into new regions of the world. Ten different nationalities, covering 90% of the languages spoken locally in the Group are represented; the internal audit department has a Bombay OBJECTIVES AND MEANS desk, created more than 3 years ago, with 9 auditors, including 2 technical experts specializing in the review of IT projects. The I would ﬁrstly remind you that a blueprint for internal control Internal Audit department is tasked with: was defined at the initiative of the French stock market • reviewing the internal control procedures implemented in the authority (AMF), which it recommends all French companies Strategic Business Units and their component legal entities to subject to the requirements of the Financial Security Law ensure that they comply with the general principles and rules (Loi de Sécurité Financière) use and apply within their subsidiaries. laid down by the Group and with certain speciﬁc procedures Capgemini Group has therefore defined and implemented a enabling the elimination or mitigation of the risks to which they control system with a view to ensuring: are exposed locally. • compliance of all management acts with relevant laws and • auditing the Group’s major contracts considered to present regulations; significant risk: Internal Audit uses one or more technical • compliance with the Group’s seven core values and guidelines experts (Group Delivery Auditors), who are selected from set by the Board of Directors and/or Group Management; among a list of Group accredited professionals according to • application by the subsidiaries of instructions communicated; their skills (and also their complete independence from the • the smooth functioning of the Group’s internal control unit being audited). processes safeguarding assets; and Each Strategic Business Unit is audited in line with a bi-annual • the reliability of the Group’s ﬁnancial information. program that the Chairman and/or the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer have the power to modify in the event of a contingency While contributing to the improved efficiency of its operational (delays and irregularities, major divergence from budgetary support functions, the optimal use of resources and good risk commitments, etc.). During 2011, the Internal Audit Department control, this system does not however offer an absolute guarantee performed: of the control of all possible risks imaginable, no more than it can • 53 audits of units belonging to all Group Strategic Business –irrespective of the skills of the employees performing the controls– Units, with each audit involving on average 36 days in the guarantee alone the realization by the Group of all objectives set. field and concluding with the issue of an action plan that management of the unit audited undertook to implement as For these reasons, since its creation, Capgemini has placed quickly as possible in order to improve or correct the points significant importance on compliance with the values and identiﬁ ed by the audit. The Internal Audit Department uses principles which guide and inspire our actions and, in particular, a tool enabling it to monitor real-time the implementation of our business practices. Our seven values (headed by honesty) recommendations following the audit, focusing particularly represent the Group’s fundamental DNA and justif y its on priority actions. reputation as an ethical and responsible company. • 2 special assignments for Group Management. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 103 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Internal control and risk management procedures 5 • 1 due diligence assignment, that is, a prior audit of a company ﬁnance function organization and procedures; that the Group intends to acquire. human resources management; external communications; At the request of the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer, business knowledge management, sharing and protection; the Internal Audit Department may also perform special information systems; assignments to review speciﬁc situations. Once annually, the procurement organization and controls; and Internal Audit Director presents: environmental protection guidelines. • to the Audit Committee, a comprehensive report on the department’s work (particularly regarding internal control efficiency and risk management in the preparation and Operational risk management processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information), • to the Ethics & Governance Committee, a speciﬁc report on Project risk compliance with the Group’s Code of Business Ethics. The Group has devised a formal process to identify and control Finally, the Internal Audit Department may at any moment draw risks associated with the delivery of information systems up a special report for presentation to the Chairman or the Chief projects ordered by clients, from pre-sale to acceptance and Executive Officer on any matter that it considers should be payment by the client of the last invoice for the project. This brought to their attention. process differentiates between: • pre-sale risk controls; • technical controls during the project execution phase; and General principles • business control. The aim of the general internal control principles is to ensure Pre-sale risk controls efﬁcient and traceable decision-making. They concern: Projects are increasingly complex, both in terms of size and • Delegation of decision-making powers and authorization: the technical speciﬁcations, especially in Outsourcing (long-term decision-making process applied within the Group is based commitments, sometimes involving transfers of assets, staff and on rules concerning the delegation of powers. These rules are the related obligations). As a result, identifying and measuring regularly updated, comply with the principle of subsidiarity and the risks involved is essential at all stages of the selling process, deﬁne three levels of decision-making depending on the issues not only for new contracts but also for extensions or renewals involved, corresponding to the three levels of Capgemini’s of existing contracts. This risk analysis is based in particular on: organization: • a reporting tool consolidating all commercial opportunities the Business Unit, for all issues that fall within its remit; at Group level. Data concerning commercial opportunities is the Strategic Business Unit (or the Country Board) for all entered as and when identiﬁed, and updated throughout the issues that concern several Business Units under their sale process; authority; • validation, at the various organizational levels of the Group’s the Group (Group Management, Executive Committee, central operational structure and at the different stages of the selling departments, etc.) for all decisions outside the scope of process (from identiﬁcation of an opportunity as investmentresponsibility of a Strategic Business Unit or region which worthy from a Group perspective and the submission of must be taken at Group level due to their nature (acquisitions, service proposals, often in several stages, to the signature divestments, etc.), or for other major operations whose of a contract) of the main characteristics of the opportunity, ﬁnancial impacts exceed well-deﬁned materiality thresholds. in particular as regards technical, ﬁnancial and legal matters. This process has been formalized in an authorization matrix As described above, the decision to commit the Group to which requires both prior consultation and the provision of commercial oppor tunities meeting pre-defined criteria sufﬁcient information to the parties involved. Recommendations concerning size and complexity is the sole prerogative of the submitted to the ﬁnal decision-maker must include the views of Group Review Board. For particularly complex projects, a review all interested parties as well as an objective assessment of the of solutions may be carried out during the ﬁnal pre-sale phase advantages and drawbacks of each of the possible solutions. in order to bring to the Group Review Board’s attention any potential operational risks. • The framework of general policies and procedures: the Blue Book sets out the main principles and basic guidelines Production and quality control underpinning the Group’s internal control procedures, and The Group has approved policies for monitoring the proper covers speciﬁc issues relating to the following areas: performance of contracts that are applied throughout the life the Group’s organization and corporate governance scenarios of the project to ensure that it runs smoothly. The key features as well as authorization guidelines; of these policies include: sales policy; • clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of each contractual engagement guidelines; individual regarding execution and supervision throughout service production; the entire production process, in particular as regards the 104 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Internal control and risk management procedures 5 choice of project leader, client relationship management, Listed on the Paris Stock Exchange and a global leader in its billing, estimation of costs to completion, joint oversight business sector, the Group is frequently called upon by the arrangements with the client, etc.; media and the ﬁnancial community to provide information on its • use of proprietary production methodologies in all of the expertise, strategic direction, forecasts, results, etc. Therefore, Business Units; to control and limit risks to its reputation, only persons duly • global access to the expertise available through Capgemini’s authorized by Group Management are permitted to speak on Applications Development Centers; behalf of the Group. • monthly Group-wide identiﬁcation of all risk-sensitive projects in the execution phase, and the implementation of action plans Human resources risk aimed at eliminating or containing such risks; The Group pays very close attention to the quality of its human • commissioning independent technical audits of the teams in resource management and employee satisfaction. Accordingly, charge of a given project to identify additional risks in cases an internal survey is conducted each year aimed at measuring where actual performance appears to diverge from forecasts commitment and expectations among the Group’s 120,000 or from commitments undertaken. These engagements employees. This survey is an appraisal tool and action plans are are carried out by the Production/Methods and Support established based on identiﬁed results. Department, and complement the upstream independent Furthermore, a project in SaaS mode (Software as a Service) technical audits carried out by the Business Units as a is currently being rolled out by the Group Human Resources preventative measure for operational risks. Department to ensure the comprehensive management of all processes concerning the management of high-performing Business control individuals and a uniform approach to monitoring performance, Depending on its size, each Business Unit has one or more the development plans of our employees, the management project ﬁnancial controllers whose role is to: of international mobility and succession plans, in a manner • monitor the financial aspects of each project and primarily consistent with the strategic objectives of the Group and the actual versus budgeted project production costs. Progress interests of our clients. repor ts and management indicators are built into the Finally, the Capgemini Group International Works Council covers monitoring process, which relies mainly on the periodic analysis not only European countries but also includes representatives of estimated costs to completion and their accounting impact; of the main countries outside Europe (India, United States and •permanently control compliance with contractual Brazil). The Group’s key managers regularly attend meetings to commitments –particularly billing and payment milestones. present changes in the Group and the main challenges facing it, and discuss them with employee representatives in an open Reputational risk manner and an environment of mutual understanding. Compliance with clear principles of business ethics is firmly embedded in Capgemini’s culture. On its creation in 1967, the Information systems risk Group identiﬁed seven core values which form the keystone of its While the Group is not highly dependent on information systems identity. Today, each of the 120,000 managers and employees in the course of its business, it has nevertheless implemented data continue to refer to these values and have committed to applying recovery procedures for its activities in the event of a disruption to them personally on a daily basis and ensuring their compliance IT services. The Group has drawn up an IT infrastructure security by individuals in their business unit or who participate on policy which is veriﬁed annually by each Group entity. However, joint projects. From this point of view, the Code of Business certain Group entities have heightened security imperatives Ethics issued in 2010 represents the continuation and formal reﬂecting their clients’ line of business, and they are consequently documentation of cultural reflexes already firmly embedded certiﬁed ISO 27001-compliant by an independent agency. in Capgemini. A speciﬁc policy dealing with the prevention of corruption was distributed within the Group in 2011, and all new Production security risk recruits undertake to comply with the principles explained in the Telecommunications networks used by the Group are Anti-Corruption Policy and follow an e-learning training course automatically duplicated in cases where “Rightshored” production on this policy. resources are deployed. In the event of a breakdown in the The Group has decided only to locate in those countries preferred (fastest) communications network between Europe satisfying a certain number of criteria concerning work ethics and India, service continuity is ensured by tried and tested and security in the conduct of business. alternative routes. The Group’s Indian subsidiary has also set up In 2011, the Group implemented a new solution for indentifying a Business Continuity Management (BCM) structure to ensure and monitoring risks and problems likely to arise in external service continuity in line with the Good Practice Guidelines of the social networks and took the necessary measures to deal with Business Continuity Institute (BCI). These measures take account such problems where necessary. Internally, communication of various hypothetical threats along with the differing degrees of experts monitor these networks and stand ready to react rapidly potential damage at site, urban and country level. to any negative comments from employees. Where required by the local contract in force, a business continuity plan is prepared by selecting appropriate measures according CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 105 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Internal control and risk management procedures 5 to the criticality of the service. The Group uses reviews and In parallel, Capgemini has implemented a tool allowing for simulations to test the efﬁciency of these plans. worldwide procurement management and monitoring. This tool, known as GPS (Global Procurement System), is used for the issue Environmental risk and approval of purchase orders. The procurement tool contains As an intellectual service provider, Capgemini has little impact an approval chain that ensures the correct allocation of costs on the environment. The Group nonetheless strives to reduce its to projects and provides for a ﬁnancial approval mechanism. environmental footprint through a number of measures set out The centralized management of data in this procurement base in the Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Chapter enables us to control and better manage Group expenditure and (3.5 The Group and the Environment, page 62). The risks to which supplier selection. Suppliers are selected by a functional team the Group is exposed in this respect are not considered material. based on rigorous procedures using multiple criteria, several of The Group pays special attention to energy consumption, the which concern ethical standards and sustainable development. management of its IT hardware and waste and has implemented speciﬁc action plans in these areas and particularly in the data Country risk processing centers. Measures to raise employee awareness and The Capgemini Group restricts operations to countries able aimed at reducing business travel, though the use of internet and to offer satisfactory guarantees in terms of individual security. video technology, have been implemented. Work on client engagements in certain countries classified as “at risk” is subject to approval by the Group Review Board. Rules Client risk and procedures have been drawn up for “at risk” territories in The Group is exposed to several types of client risk: which the Group conducts engagements in order to satisfy the • the risk of excessive dependence on a single client or demands of its major clients. Speciﬁc contracts have been agreed group of clients or a single market sector: the Group has with organizations specialized in managing these risks to assess several thousand clients, which to a certain extent enables independently the risk exposure in each country. Accordingly, it to resist market turbulence and reduce its exposure to certain countries are subject to strict travel bans. The risk is volatility in certain sectors. The client portfolio consists of reassessed continuously based on the geopolitical position and both a large number of entities from the public sector and a warning systems are used to inform employees of country risks. large number of entities from the private sector, from a wide Furthermore, these organizations also help resolve any potential spread of diversiﬁed markets. Exposure to risks of commercial difﬁculties encountered by employees assigned to work in these dependency is therefore limited. countries and provide risk prevention training courses prior to • client insolvency: client solvency analysis upstream of the their departure. sales process helps minimize client credit risk. Together, the Group’s top 30 clients generate slightly over 36% of revenues. Acquisition risk The solvency of these major clients, combined with the wide Capgemini has a wealth of experience in acquisitions, having diversity of other smaller clients, helps reduce credit risk. carried out around 50 external growth transactions since the • the risk of dissatisfaction: Capgemini pays particular attention 1970s. Entrepreneurial spirit, managerial autonomy, and the to assessing client satisfaction and has implemented a rigorous principle of subsidiarity are crucial factors in the successful client relationship management process that it carries out integration of newly-acquired businesses. The successful throughout the project, known as OTACE (On Time and Above integration of new businesses is also facilitated by the Group’s Client Expectations). This is a key pillar of the Group’s client organization along geographic regions and business lines. The loyalty policy, particularly for major client accounts. Group’s Legal Affairs Department is involved in the negotiation of the legal aspects of merger/acquisition projects. Supplier and subcontractor risk An integration manager is appointed for all acquisitions. He is The Group has signed framework agreements and contracts involved from early on in the acquisition process and generally with its suppliers containing clauses similar to those contained from the due diligence stage and, in all events, prior to signature in contracts signed with its clients, in a bid to improve the of the contract. He has substantial technical experience and the management of contractual risks and acceptance risks. necessary authority and asserts his role as manager responsible These framework agreements and contracts clearly stipulate for the implementation of appraisal systems and the regular obligations with respect to delivery deadlines, service level and review of management reports used to monitor the integration operating tests as well as penalties for non-compliance. process and avoid any mismatch. Over recent years, the Group has signed strategic partnership contracts with a diversiﬁed group of major suppliers in order to Economic climate risk preserve its independence and guarantee the sustainability of Although a substantial proportion of the Group’s operations its services. The Group has signed a certain number of strategic depends on its clients’ investment capacity, the fact that the contracts with major and ﬁnancially sound suppliers. The risks Group is organized around medium-sized Business Units represented by smaller suppliers and/or start-ups are analyzed close to their target market allows for rapid responsiveness to and back-up plans established. downturns in the business environment. 106 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Internal control and risk management procedures 5 Legal risk management In principle, the Group holds the entire share capital of its subsidiaries and does not hold any listed equity investments. Legal risks are identified, analyzed and managed by the Group Cap Gemini S.A. has a share buyback program authorized Legal Affairs Department, which is comprised of central, regional by Shareholders’ Meeting. Its implementation is authorized and local teams in each of the main geographic areas in which each year by the Board of Directors, which also approves each Capgemini has operations. share buyback decision (outside the liquidity agreement, implementation of which is delegated and subject to a resource Failure to comply with regulations governing our ceiling). The value of these shares is deducted directly from activities Group equity and ﬂuctuations in the Cap Gemini share price do During acquisitions and prior to launching a new business line, not impact its results. the Group performs a focused due diligence review of the target and applicable regulations. Counterparty risk The investment policy authorizes the investment of cash Contractual risk surpluses in money market mutual funds (FCP and SICAV) The Group has established a Contract Clause Negotiating satisfying the “monetary” classification criteria defined by Guide, which identiﬁes clauses exposing the Group to risk and the AMF, and negotiable debt securities maturing in less than requires information to be reported to the Group Legal Affairs 3 months or immediately available, issued by companies or Department in the event of derogation from accepted standard ﬁnancial institutions with a good credit rating (minimum A2/P2 positions. Criteria determining when it is necessary to report to or equivalent). The Group also applies maximum concentration the Group Review Board have also been deﬁned for contracts per counterparty rules. identiﬁed by the Group as presenting a high level of risk due to The Group abides by similar risk quality/minimum rating and their size or other criteria. diversiﬁcation rules when selecting counterparties for foreign currency and interest rate management hedging contracts. Compliance with legislation The Group has a Legal Affairs Department with an established Liquidity risk presence in the main geographic regions. Its role is to monitor The majority of Group ﬁnancing is borne by the parent company changes in legislation relevant to the Group’s activities, advise and, as such, implementation of the finance policy is largely the Group thereon and provide training in the main legal issues centralized. The Group adopts a prudent ﬁnance policy based to targeted employee categories. The Group has also adopted a primarily on: Code of Business Ethics and calls on a network of Legal Counsels • measured recourse to debt leverage, combined with limiting who double-up as Ethics and Compliance Ofﬁcers and participate the grant of contractual provisions that could trigger the early in identifying risks and train and monitor employees in order to repayment of borrowings, guarantee compliance. • the maintenance of a high level of liquidity at all times, • the active management of ﬁnancial liability maturities, aimed Litigation risk at limiting the concentration of borrowing maturities, A procedure has been implemented for reporting information • the diversiﬁcation of ﬁnancing sources, to limit dependence on to the Group Legal Affairs Department on actual and potential certain categories of lenders. litigation and other disputes and government inquiries. The local Legal Affairs Departments also regularly inform the Group Legal Foreign currency risk Affairs Department of any threats of this nature. The Group implements a policy aimed at mitigating and managing foreign currency risk: • production cost risks primarily concern internal flows with Financial risk management India; a hedging policy is defined by the Group based on periodic reports and mainly involves forward purchases and The Group has standardized rules and procedures for the sales of currency, identiﬁcation, control and management of ﬁnancial risks. These • ﬁnancial ﬂows exchanged as part of inter-company ﬁnancing are framed in a conservative ﬁnancing policy based notably on activities primarily in Cap Gemini S.A. are systematically the upstream authorization by the Board of Directors of all major hedged (mainly using for ward purchases and sales of ﬁnancing decisions, and the measured use of debt thanks to the currency), Group’s high liquidity levels. • royalty ﬂows payable to Cap Gemini S.A. by subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro are also generally hedged. Equity risk The Cash surplus investment policy deﬁned by the Group Finance Interest rate risk Department and documented in the internal manual (Transform), As part of its ﬁnancing policy, the Group seeks to restrict interest prohibits all equity investments. The proper application of this rate risk by opting for either ﬁxed rates or capped ﬂoating rates. policy is regularly controlled by internal and external auditors. The Group favors investments offering a high level of security CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 107 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Internal control and risk management procedures 5 and generally ﬂoating-rates and as such accepts in the event projects and assesses their accounting impact, and ensures the of a fall in interest rates the risk of a drop in returns from the quality of the information contained in the ﬁnancial reports and investment of cash surpluses (and as such an increase in the accounting packages used as the basis for preparing the Group’s ﬁnance cost differential). consolidated ﬁnancial statements. These Business Unit ﬁnancial controllers report to the financial controller of the Strategic Employee-related liabilities Business Unit, whose main responsibility is to ensure that In conjunction with the Trustees, the Group strives to strengthen ﬁnancial and accounting information is reported to the parent the governance and management resources of its main pension company on a timely basis. Their direct superior is the Group funds. The investment strategy of its main pension funds, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in order to safeguard the independence encompassing the management of assets and liabilities, is required when preparing accounting results. Operational control reviewed annually and monitored periodically with the aim is, therefore, decentralized. of reducing volatility, as much as economically possible and The countries and geographic areas have a Legal Financial reasonable to do so. Increased life expectancy is taken into Director, whose duties and responsibilities include ensuring that account as and when it is recognized by actuaries. all ﬁnancial staff in the country or region are well-versed in the Group commitments in respect of pension shortfalls depend Group’s accounting policies and methods, checking compliance on local regulations. They are reviewed and negotiated with the with local taxation and statutory reporting requirements, helping Trustees approximately once every three years and give rise to maintain an effective internal control environment, liaising with payments spread over periods of 5 to 10 years. shared service centers and the Statutory Auditors, setting accounts closing and financial reporting timetables, signing off on the consolidation packages of the subsidiaries under his Compliance with rules governing or her authority, signing the representation letter and bringing share trading any and all matters that he or she sees ﬁt to the attention of the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. The Group requires all employees to refrain from carrying out All ﬁnancial staff is required to apply the Group’s accounting any transactions involving the Company’s shares during certain procedures and policies contained in the TransFORM manual, periods of the year. All Group employees are reminded of these which sets out: restrictions in writing before the start of each such period. • the fundamental rules of internal control; • what information must be reported, when, and how often; • management rules and procedures; Procedures concerning the preparation • accounting policies, rules and methods; and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting • performance indicators. information Furthermore, the Group has a single integrated management These procedures are used to ensure the application of and system (GFS), which continued to be rolled out in the Group’s compliance with Group accounting rules relating to the preparation subsidiaries in several countries in 2011. Other major business of budgets and forecasts, financial reporting, consolidation, units will migrate to this system in 2012. The desired uniformity management control and ﬁnancial communications. During each of management systems is therefore a step closer, strengthening accounts closing period, the Group Finance Department sends the control environment. out a questionnaire to all subsidiaries dealing with the application Finally, the shared ser vice centers pool the accounting of general internal control principles and procedures concerning processing resources of the Group’s subsidiaries. The main the processing of reported ﬁnancial and accounting information. centers are located in Warsaw (Poland) and Calcutta (India). The These questionnaires are analyzed for any irregularities and centralization of accounting processes was stepped up in 2011 corrective measures devised where appropriate. and also contributed to increased uniformity within the Group. a. Financial and accounting structure b. Budgets, forecasting, ﬁnancial reporting and The Group’s ﬁnancial functions are integrated into the operating consolidation structure, that is, both Business Units and countries. They In order to exercise effective control over their operations, have access to common resources encompassing accounting the Group requires Business Units to submit weekly, monthly, rules and procedures, information and management systems quarterly, half-yearly and annual reports of all budget, forecast, and share service centers. Each Business Unit has a dedicated operational and accounting information required for the general ﬁnancial controller (reporting to the corresponding Strategic management of the Group: Business Unit’s financial controller) who is responsible for • Budget and forecasting process: budgets form the basic ensuring that the results of its activities are accurately reported building blocks in the management control process. They in the accounts in accordance with Group accounting rules are debated and negotiated at length between the different and methods. The ﬁnancial controller veriﬁes that services are Group Business Unit managers and their superiors, with each correctly billed and paid for, checks proﬁt estimates for ongoing budgetary item decided based on past performance, the 108 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Internal control and risk management procedures 5 Group’s chosen strategic priorities and available information signiﬁcant repercussions on the ﬁnancial position of the Group concerning expected market trends. Group Management or one of its subsidiaries at the period-end; sets quantified targets for each geographic area, Strategic a review of the tax position of each of the Group’s legal entities; Business Unit and their component Business Units. The a review of the value of intangible assets; budget preparation process is a key moment in the relationship a detailed analysis of the statement of cash ﬂows. between the different levels of the Group’s management and The controls described above carried out by the Group Finance makes it possible to substantially link the variable portion Department are supplemented by the work of two independent of the compensation paid to Business Unit managers to the bodies tasked with carrying out checks on the internal control attainment of the budgetary targets of their Business Unit and environment and verifying the quality of the ﬁnancial statements: the next level Business Unit to which they belong. A forecast the Internal Audit department and the Statutory Auditors: operating income statement (for the current month, the Internal Audit: based on its program covering the Group’s following six months and the full year) is prepared monthly Business Units, drawn up in agreement with the Chairman by each Business Unit manager. Variances from budget are and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (as it reports to both directly), analyzed so that any corrective action plans that may be the Internal Audit department is responsible for carrying out needed can be drawn up as quickly as possible. controls to ensure that procedures relating to the safeguarding • Operational reporting process: Information reporting is of assets, the valuation of work-in-progress, the actual amount structured by geographic area and business. This allows of trade accounts receivable, and the proper recognition of revenues and costs to be analyzed on a monthly basis both by liabilities, are applied in each Business Unit in accordance with type and function, and performance indicators to be updated and the rules and methods established by the Group. In particular, measured against budget (A/B), the latest forecasts (A/F) and the Internal Audit department is required to pay special prior-year ﬁgures (A/A’). Balance sheet items are analyzed on a attention to revenue recognition methods and to controlling the quarterly basis. A monthly management report is prepared for percentage of completion of projects, so as to ensure that these each Strategic Business Unit jointly by the manager and ﬁnancial are accounted for on the basis of rigorous, up-to-date technical controller, and is submitted to Group Management for review. assessments. The Internal Audit brief also includes a review of This report gives a detailed breakdown of actual performance, the procedures and controls in place within the Business Unit to forecasts for the following six months and actions taken in the ensure the security and validity of transactions and accounting event of material variances between actual and budget ﬁgures. entries; Reconciliations are performed systematically to ensure that the Statutory Auditors, who it need merely be noted here, carry financial information derived from the operational reporting out an ongoing review of internal control procedures with an system is consistent with the consolidated ﬁnancial information impact on the preparation and quality of the ﬁnancial statements provided by the legal entities within the Group. as part of their audit engagement. • Consolidation process: at each yearly or half-yearly closing, the scope of consolidation is updated at Group level by the • Communicating financial information: this is subject to Finance Department and validated by the Legal Affairs rigorous internal control, with a particular focus on three key Department. Written instructions are issued providing the media used to report ﬁnancial information: schedule for period-end tasks (particularly the reconciliation the half-year ﬁnancial report and annual report, of inter-company transaction balances), highlighting current ﬁnancial press releases, accounting issues requiring speciﬁc attention, and describing analyst and investor meetings. the control procedures applied during the preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The consolidation process • The Annual Report has been the cornerstone of the Group’s is based on accounting packages by geographic area, which ﬁnancial communications strategy for the past 37 years (the must be signed off by the person responsible for preparing ﬁrst edition concerned the 1975 ﬁscal year). The preparation of them. Income statements, balance sheets and other key the report, its content, illustrations, design and distribution are management indicators required for subsequent analysis are therefore subject to particular attention on the part of Group stored in a single database maintained at Group level. Access Management and, above all, the Chairman. All the sections of to this information system is strictly controlled. the Group’s Annual Report are written internally by staff and managers of the Group who are each responsible for designing c. Financial information and setting out a chapter on their area of competence, within • Controlling ﬁnancial information: ﬁnancial information and the general framework proposed by the Communications its communication are subject to speciﬁc controls at half-year Department. The Reference Document, which is integrated in and annual period ends. These include: the Annual Report, combines all the information that must be a systematic review carried out with the assistance of the Legal provided pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements and is Affairs Department of all material operations and transactions drawn up under the responsibility of the Finance Department. occurring during the period; a procedure to identify, collate and report off-balance sheet commitments and any other information liable to have CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 109 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Internal control and risk management procedures 5 • Financial press releases are only published further to the formal validation of the Board of Directors or the Chairman, and they must therefore be submitted sufﬁciently in advance to allow time for such approval. Financial press releases are published outside the trading hours of the Paris stock exchange, except in exceptional circumstances. • Analyst and investor meetings are subject to specific preparation, and their content is presented to the Board of Directors or the Chairman prior to such meetings. This preparatory work is then used as a framework for comments and explanations provided by the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, the Chief Financial Officer, or employees in charge of investor relations during the meetings. A weekend in March 2012, in Grenoble Serge Kampf (This report was reviewed by the Statutory Auditors who issued a report thereon, which may be found on the following page). 110 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 5. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Statutory auditors’ report 5.6 Statutory auditors’ report 5 prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. (Year ended December 31, 2011) This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board on the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and the relevant professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, Information concerning the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A., and in processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial The professional standards require that we perform procedures Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the report to assess the fairness of the information on internal control and prepared by the Chairman of your Company in accordance with risk management procedures relating to the preparation and Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code for the year processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information set out in ended December 31, 2011. the Chairman’s report. These procedures mainly consisted of: • obtaining an understanding of the internal control and risk It is the Chairman’s responsibility to prepare, and submit to the management procedures relating to the preparation and Board of Directors for approval, a report describing the internal processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information on which control and risk management procedures implemented by the the information presented in the Chairman’s report is based, Company and providing the other information required by Article and of the existing documentation; L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code in particular relating • obtaining an understanding of the work per formed to to corporate governance. support the information given in the report and of the existing documentation; It is our responsibility: • determining if any material weaknesses in the internal control • to report to you on the information set out in the Chairman’s procedures relating to the preparation and processing of report on internal control and risk management procedures financial and accounting information that we may have relating to the preparation and processing of financial and identiﬁed in the course of our work are properly described in accounting information; and the Chairman’s report. • to attest that this report sets out the other information required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code, it being On the basis of our work, we have no matters to report on the speciﬁed that it is not our responsibility to assess the fairness information given on internal control and risk management of this information. procedures relating to the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information, set out in the Chairman of We conducted our work in accordance with professional the Board’s report, prepared in accordance with Article L.225-37 standards applicable in France. of the French Commercial Code. Other information We attest that the Chairman of the Board’s report sets out the other information required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 10, 2012 Paris La Défense, April 10, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 111 112 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113 6.1 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 114 6.2 Consolidated income statement 115 6.3 Statement of income and expense recognized in equity 116 6.4 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 117 6.5 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 118 6.6 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 1 19 6.7 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 120 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 113 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory auditor’s report 6 6.1 Statutory auditor’s report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Year ended december 31, 2011 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. The Statutory Auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether qualified or not. This information is presented below the opinion on the financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account captions or on information taken outside of the financial statements. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, justiﬁcation of our assessments, we bring to your attention the In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your following matters: Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year • Note 1-E to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements sets out the ended December 31, 2011, on: methods used to account for revenues and costs related to • the audit of the accompanying consolidated financial long-term contracts. As part of our assessments, we ensured statements of Cap Gemini S.A., that the abovementioned accounting rules and principles • the justiﬁcation of our assessments, adopted by your Group were properly applied and veriﬁed that • the speciﬁc veriﬁcation required by law. the information provided in the note above was appropriate. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been approved by We also obtained assurance that the estimates used were the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these reasonable. consolidated ﬁnancial statements based on our audit. • Goodwill of €3,768 million is carried in the consolidated balance sheet. The approach adopted by the Group as well as the accounting principles and methods applied to determine OPINION ON THE CONSOLIDATED the value in use of these assets are described in Notes 1-H and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 to the consolidated financial statements. As part of our assessments, we veriﬁed whether the approach applied was We conducted our audit in accordance with professional correct and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations standards applicable in France. Those standards require that were consistent overall. we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance • Deferred tax assets amounting to €1,020 million are recorded about whether the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are free of in the consolidated balance sheet. Notes 1-K and 13 to the material misstatement. An audit includes verifying, on a test basis consolidated ﬁnancial statements describe the methods used to or by other selection methods, evidence supporting the amounts calculate the value of these assets. As part of our assessments, and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An we verified the overall consistency of the information and audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and assumptions used to perform these calculations. signiﬁcant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating These assessments were made in the context of our audit the overall presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. expressed in the ﬁrst part of this report. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the ﬁnancial position of the consolidated Group as at December 31, 2011, SPECIFIC VERIFICATION and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union. In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, we have also veriﬁed the speciﬁc information required by law and given in the Group’s management report. JUSTIFICATION OF OUR We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its ASSESSMENTS consistency with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. In accordance with the requirements of Article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 10, 2012 Paris La Défense, April 10, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner 114 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement 6.2 Consolidated income statement 6 Note 2009 2010 2011 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % Revenues 3 8,371 100 8,697 100 9,693 100 Cost of services rendered 4 (6,366) (76.1) (6,631) (76.2) (7,425) (76.6) Selling expenses 4 (629) (7.5) (680) (7.8) (746) (7.7) General and administrative expenses 4 (781) (9.3) (799) (9.2) (809) (8.3) Operating margin 595 7.1 587 6.8 713 7.4 Other operating income 5 7 0.1 6 0.1 Other operating expenses 5 (269) (3.2) (104) (1.3) (118) (1.3) Operating profit 333 4.0 489 5.6 595 6.1 Income from cash equivalents and cash management assets 6 22 0.3 20 0.3 23 0.2 Gross finance costs 6 (65) (0.8) (74) (0.9) (88) (0.9) Net finance costs 6 (43) (0.5) (54) (0.6) (65) (0.7) Other financial income 6 75 0.9 22 0.2 64 0.7 Other financial expense 6 (125) (1.6) (55) (0.6) (104) (1.1) Net financial expense (93) (1.2) (87) (1.0) (105) (1.1) Income tax expense 7 (61) (0.7) (124) (1.4) (101) (1.0) Share of profit of associates (1) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 178 2.1 278 3.2 389 4.0 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 178 2.1 280 3.2 404 4.2 Non-controlling interests (2) (15) (0.2) EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) Basic earnings per share 8 1.23 1.83 2.63 Diluted earnings per share 8 1.22 1.74 2.49 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 115 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of income and expense recognized in equity 6 6.3 Statement of income and expense recognized in equity in millions of euros Note 2009 2010 2011 Exchange differences 9 42 158 9 Remeasurement of hedging derivatives, net of deferred tax 19 27 9 (41) Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension plans, net of deferred tax 20 (120) (101) (224) Other income 1 TOTAL INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY (51) 67 (256) Profit for the year (reminder) 178 278 389 If this income and expense recognized in equity had been recognized 127 345 133 in profit or loss, profit for the year would have been as follows Attributable to: Owners of the Company 347 149 Non-controlling interests (2) (16) 116 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 6.4 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial 6 position December 31, December 31, December 31, in millions of euros Note 2009 2010 2011 Goodwill 10 2,750 3,201 3,768 Intangible assets 10 116 169 154 Property, plant and equipment 11 421 499 547 Deferred taxes 13 887 891 1,020 Other non-current assets 14 112 115 119 Total non-current assets 4,286 4,875 5,608 Accounts and notes receivable 15 2,067 2,371 2,685 Current tax assets 54 40 55 Other current receivables 16 203 306 370 Cash management assets 17 71 73 Cash and cash equivalents 17 2,603 2,305 2,223 Total current assets 4,927 5,093 5,406 TOTAL ASSETS 9,213 9,968 11,014 December 31, December 31, December 31, in millions of euros Note 2009 2010 2011 Share capital 1,233 1,246 1,246 Additional paid-in capital 2,842 2,875 2,875 Retained earnings and other reserves (40) (87) (269) Profit for the year 178 280 404 Equity (attributable to owners of the Company) 9 4,213 4,314 4,256 Non-controlling interests (7) 27 Total equity 4,213 4,307 4,283 Long-term borrowings 17 1,057 1,102 1,135 Deferred taxes 13 153 178 183 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 20 680 804 1,099 Non-current provisions 21 21 13 15 Other non-current liabilities 22 95 279 322 Total non-current liabilities 2,006 2,376 2,754 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 17 278 210 702 Accounts and notes payable 23 2,026 2,305 2,340 Advances from customers and billed in advance 15 567 576 661 Current provisions 21 28 53 48 Current tax liabilities 52 61 89 Other current payables 24 43 80 137 Total current liabilities 2,994 3,285 3,977 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,213 9,968 11,014 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 117 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 6 6.5 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows in millions of euros Note 2009 2010 2011 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 178 280 404 Non-controlling interests (2) (15) Impairment of goodwill 12 12 Depreciation, amortization and impairment of fixed assets 10 -11 164 176 188 Net charges to provisions (54) (2) (33) Losses on disposals of assets 4 5 13 Expenses relating to share subscriptions, share grants and stock options 5 19 16 17 Net finance costs 6 43 54 65 Income tax expense 7 61 124 101 Unrealized gains and losses on changes in fair value and other 18 (23) 3 Cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income tax 445 628 743 Income tax paid (B) (56) (52) (104) Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and 309 (85) (140) amounts billed in advance Change in capitalized costs on projects (15) (16) 5 Change in accounts and notes payable (73) 3 (81) Change in other receivables/payables (115) 25 (74) Change in operating working capital (C) 106 (73) (290) NET CASH FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES (D=A+B+C) 495 503 349 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 10 -11 (119) (144) (158) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 24 11 3 (95) (133) (155) Cash outflows on business combinations net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 2 (11) (218) (554) Net proceeds on disposals of companies and operations 3 1 Net proceeds/payments relating to deposits and long-term investments (5) (13) 11 Cash outflows on cash management assets (71) (2) Dividends received from associates 1 1 (13) (300) (544) NET CASH FROM (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES (E) (108) (433) (699) Proceeds from issues of share capital 225 46 Proceeds from issues of share capital subscribed by non-controlling interests 34 Dividends paid (143) (122) (154) Net proceeds/payments relating to treasury share transactions 8 (1) (7) Proceeds from borrowings 17 569 10 817 Repayments of borrowings 17 (310) (367) (381) Interest paid 6 (26) (32) (53) Interest received 6 22 21 23 NET CASH FROM (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES (F) 345 (445) 279 NET INCOME (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (G=D+E+F) 732 (375) (71) Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents (h) 60 85 (12) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR (I) 17 1,805 2,597 2,307 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR (G+H+I) 17 2,597 2,307 2,224 Cash ﬂows for the period are discussed in Note 18 – Cash ﬂows. 118 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity 6.6 Consolidated statement of changes 6 in equity Total income and expense recognized Equity Conin equity (attributsolidated able to retained owners Additional earnings Translation of the NonNumber of Share paid-in Treasury and other adjustComcontrolling Total in millions of euros Note shares capital capital shares reserves ments Other pany) interests (1) equity At January 1, 2009 145,844,938 1,167 2,689 (84) 628 (277) (184) 3,939 3,939 Dividends paid out for (143) (143) (143) 2008 OCEANE bonds 17 39 39 39 Incentive instruments and employee share 9 8,332,458 66 153 25 244 244 ownership Treasury shares 9 5 2 7 7 Transactions with 8,332,458 66 153 5 (77) 147 147 shareholders Income and expense 42 (93) (51) (51) recognized in equity Profit for the year 178 178 178 At December 31, 2009 154,177,396 1,233 2,842 (79) 729 (235) (277) 4,213 4,213 Dividends paid out for (122) (122) (122) 2009 Incentive instruments and employee share 9 1,592,966 13 33 15 61 61 ownership Put option granted to CPM Braxis minority 2 (185) (185) (5) (190) shareholders (43.94%) Treasury shares 9 (2) 2 Transactions with 13 33 (2) (290) (246) (5) (251) shareholders Income and expense 158 (91) 67 67 recognized in equity Profit for the year 280 280 (2) 278 At December 31, 2010 155,770,362 1,246 2,875 (81) 719 (77) (368) 4,314 (7) 4,307 Dividends paid out for (154) (154) (154) 2010 Incentive instruments and employee share 9 17 17 17 ownership Adjustments to the put option granted to CPM Braxis minority shareholders and 2 (64) (64) 50 (14) changes in percentage interest Treasury shares 9 (3) (3) (6) (6) Transactions with (3) (204) (207) 50 (157) shareholders Income and expense 10 (265) (255) (1) (256) recognized in equity Profit for the year 404 404 (15) 389 At December 31, 2011 155,770,362 1,246 2,875 (84) 919 (67) (633) 4,256 27 4,283 (1) In 2009, non-controlling interests were negligible. The main movements in 2010 and 2011 concern non–controlling interests in CPM Braxis, acquired on October 6, 2010. See Note 2 – Changes in Group structure. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 119 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 6.7 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended december 31, 2011 Note 1 – Accounting policies ................................................ 120 standards (IFRS, International Financial Reporting Standards) Note 2 – Changes in group structure .................................... 128 issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), Note 3 – Revenues................................................................ 131 endorsed by the European Union at December 31, 2011 and Note 4 – Operating expenses by nature ............................... 131 published in the Ofﬁcial Journal of the European Union. Note 5 – Other operating income and expense ..................... 132 The Group also takes account of the positions adopted by Syntec Note 6 – Net financial expense ............................................ 132 Informatique, an organization representing major consulting Note 7 – Income tax expense ............................................... 133 and computer services companies in France, regarding the Note 8 – Earnings per share ................................................. 134 application of certain IFRSs. Note 9 – Equity .................................................................... 135 Note 10 – Goodwill and intangible assets ............................. 140 New standards and interpretations applicable in 2011 Note 11 – Property, plant and equipment .............................141 New standards, amendments and interpretations of mandatory Note 12 Asset impairment tests ......................................... 142 application (published by the IASB, endorsed by the EU, entered Note 13 – Deferred taxes ..................................................... 143 into effect on January 1, 2011) Note 14 – Other non-current assets ..................................... 145 The accounting policies applied by the Group are unchanged Note 15 – Accounts and notes receivable .............................. 146 on those applied for the preparation of the 2010 consolidated Note 16 – Other current receivables ......................................147 financial statements, with the exception of new standards, Note 17 – Net cash and cash equivalents...............................147 amendments and interpretations which entered into effect on Note 18 – Cash flows ........................................................... 152 January 1, 2011. Note 19 – Derivative instruments and currency These standards, amendments and interpretations of and interest rate risk management....................... 154 mandatory effect did not impact the Group ﬁnancial statements. Note 20 – Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits .................................... 157 New standards, amendments and interpretations not adopted Note 21 – Current and non-current provisions .................... 162 early (published by the IASB, endorsed by the EU, not yet in Note 22 – Other non-current liabilities ................................ 162 effect at January 1, 2011) Note 23 – Accounts and notes payable ................................. 163 During fiscal year 2011, no new standard, amendment or Note 24 – Other current payables ........................................ 163 interpretation was published by the IASB, endorsed by the Note 25 – Operating segments ............................................. 163 European Union and entered into effect at January 1, 2011. Note 26 – Number of employees ...........................................170 Note 27 – Off-balance sheet commitments ............................170 New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet Note 28 – Related-party transactions .................................. 172 endorsed (published by the IASB, not yet endorsed by the EU, Note 29 – Subsequent events ................................................ 172 not yet in effect at January 1, 2011) Note 30 – List of the main consolidated companies The Group did not elect to adopt early the standards, by country ........................................................... 173 amendments, and interpretations published by the IASB but not yet endorsed by the European Union at December 31, 2011 or in effect at January 1, 2011. In June 2011, the IASB published amendments to IAS 19, NOTE 1 – ACCOUNTING POLICIES Employee Beneﬁts, which include, in particular, the requirement to measure the expected return on plan assets on a standardized The consolidated financial statements for the year ended base (through the discount rate used to measure the obligation), December 31, 2011 and the notes thereto were approved by which will impact the net financial expense. In addition, the the Board of Directors on February 15, 2012. The consolidated impact of past services costs will be recognized in proﬁt or loss ﬁnancial statements become deﬁnitive after their approval by in the year of the plan amendment and/or the arrival of new the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, scheduled for May 24, participants. 2012. The suppression of the “corridor” method by the amendment will not impact the Group ﬁnancial statements, as net actuarial gains and losses of the period are already recorded in the amount of Accounting basis the provision for pensions through an adjustment to equity. IFRS standards-base The early adoption of the other standards, amendments and Pursuant to European Commission Regulation No.1606/2002 interpretations would not have had a material impact on the 2011 of July 19, 2002, the 2011 consolidated financial statements consolidated ﬁnancial statements. have been prepared in accordance with international accounting 120 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Use of estimates Statement. The Group’s share in net assets of the associate is The preparation of ﬁnancial statements involves the use of estimates recorded under “Other non-current assets” in the Consolidated and assumptions which may have an impact on the reported values Statement of Financial Position. of assets and liabilities at the period end or on certain items of either the net proﬁt or the income and expenses recognized directly in Details of the scope of consolidation are provided in Note 30 – equity for the year. Estimates are based on economic data and List of the main consolidated companies by country. assumptions which are likely to vary over time and are subject to a All consolidated companies prepared their accounts at degree of uncertainty. They mainly concern revenue recognition on December 31, 2011 in accordance with the accounting policies ﬁxed-price contracts accounted for on a percentage-of-completion adopted by the Group. basis, recognition of deferred tax assets, measurement of the Inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation, as recoverable amount of assets, pensions and other post-employment well as inter-company proﬁts. beneﬁt obligations, the fair value of derivatives, and current and The Group does not control any special purpose entities that non-current provisions. have not been consolidated. B) Foreign currency translation Overview of the main accounting policies The consolidated ﬁnancial statements presented in this report adopted by Capgemini Group have been prepared in euros. The C onsolidated Statements of Financial Position of A) Consolidation methods subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated The accounts of companies directly or indirectly controlled into euros at year-end rates of exchange with the exception of by Cap Gemini S.A. are fully consolidated. Cap Gemini S.A. is equity accounts, which are carried at their historical values. deemed to exercise control over an entity when it has the power Income statements denominated in foreign currencies are to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of the entity so as translated into euros at the average rates of exchange for the to obtain beneﬁts from its activities. year. However, for certain material transactions, it may be relevant to use a speciﬁc rate of exchange. Differences arising Investments in companies which Cap Gemini S.A. directly from translation at these different rates are recognized directly or indirectly controls jointly with a limited number of other in equity under “Translation reserves” and have no impact on shareholders are accounted for by the method of proportionate the Income Statement. consolidation. This method consists of consolidating the income and expenses and assets and liabilities of jointly-controlled Exchange differences arising on monetary items which form companies on a line-by-line basis, based on the Group’s an integral part of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries percentage interest in their capital. are recognized in equity under “Translation reserves” for their net-oftax amount. Investments in associates over whose management Cap Gemini S.A. directly or indirectly exercises signiﬁcant inﬂuence, without Exchange differences on receivables and payables denominated however exercising full or joint control, are accounted for by in a foreign currency are recorded in operating income or the equity method. This method consists of recording the expense or ﬁnancial income or expense, depending on the type Group’s share in proﬁt for the year of the associate in the Income of transaction concerned. The exchange rates used to translate the ﬁnancial statements of the Group’s main subsidiaries into euros are as follows: Average exchange rates Year-end exchange rates 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 US dollar 0.7 1958 0 .7 5 5 1 3 0.7 1920 0.69745 0.75301 0.77286 Pound sterling 1.1 2282 1 . 16610 1 . 1 5272 1.10619 1.16252 1 .1 9717 Canadian dollar 0.6 3110 0.7 3312 0.7 2716 0.66494 0.75330 0.75672 Swedish krona 0.09423 0.10485 0. 1 1 0 7 9 0.09713 0.11095 0. 1 1221 Australian dollar 0.56623 0.69368 0.74 1 9 3 0.62360 0.76458 0.78598 Norwegian krona 0. 1 1465 0.1 2492 0.1 2832 0.12016 0.12789 0.12897 Indian rupee 0.01487 0.01652 0.01544 0.01491 0.01676 0.01455 Polish zloty 0. 23133 0.25039 0.24340 0.24243 0.25221 0.22432 Brazilian real 0.36233 0.4 2919 0.43031 0.40106 0.45082 0.41392 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 121 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 C) Consolidated income statement where appropriate, for the effects of all potential dilutive Income and expense are presented in the Consolidated Income ﬁnancial instruments corresponding to (i) stock subscription Statement by function to reflect the specific nature of the options, (ii) bonds convertible/exchangeable into new or Group’s business more accurately. Operating expenses are existing Cap Gemini S.A. shares, (iii) redeemable share broken down into cost of services rendered (corresponding subscription or purchase warrants and (iv) performance shares. to costs incurred for the execution of client projects), selling expenses, and general and administrative expenses. E) Recognition of revenues and the cost of services rendered These three captions represent ordinary operating expenses The method for recognizing revenues and costs depends on the which are deducted from revenues to obtain operating margin, nature of the services rendered: one of the main Group business performance indicators. a) Time and materials contracts Operating profit is obtained by deducting other operating Revenues and cost of services are recognized as services are income and expenses from operating margin. Other operating rendered. income and expenses include the charge resulting from the deferred recognition of the fair value of shares and stock b) Long-term ﬁxed-price contracts options granted to employees, and non-recurring revenues Revenues, including systems development and integration and expenses, notably impairment of goodwill, capital gains or contracts, are recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” losses on disposals of consolidated companies or businesses, method. Costs are recognized as they are incurred. restructuring costs incurred under a detailed formal plan approved by the Group’s management, the cost of acquiring c) Outsourcing contracts and integrating companies acquired by the Group, and the Revenues from outsourcing agreements are recognized over effects of curtailments and settlements relating to defined the term of the contract as the services are rendered. When the beneﬁt pension plans. services are made up of different components which are not separately identiﬁable, the related revenues are recognized on Proﬁt for the year is then obtained by taking into account the a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. following items: The related costs are recognized as they are incurred. However, • net ﬁnance costs, including interest on borrowings calculated a portion of costs incurred in the initial phase of outsourcing using the effective interest rate, less income from cash and contracts (transition and/or transformation costs) may be cash equivalents; deferred when they are specific to a given contract, relate • other financial income and exp ense, which primarily to future activity on the contract and/or will generate future correspond to the impact of remeasuring ﬁnancial instruments economic benefits, and are recoverable. These costs are at fair value when these relate to items of a ﬁnancial nature, allocated to work-in-progress and any reimbursement by the disposal gains and losses and the impairment of investments client is recorded as a deduction from the costs incurred. in non-consolidated companies, net interest costs on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, exchange gains and losses on When the projected cost of the contract exceeds contract financial items, and other financial income and expense on revenues, a loss to completion is recognized in the amount of miscellaneous ﬁnancial assets and liabilities calculated using the difference. the effective interest rate; • current and deferred income tax expense; Revenues receivable from these contracts are recognized • share of proﬁt of associates; in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under • share of non-controlling interests. “Accounts and notes receivable” when invoiced to customers and “Accrued income” when they are not yet invoiced. Advances D) Earnings per share from customers and billed in advance are included in current Earnings per share are measured as follows: liabilities. • basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing proﬁt or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average F) Goodwill and intangible assets number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, a) Goodwill and business combinations excluding treasury shares. The weighted average number Since January 1, 2010, business combinations are accounted for of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted by the number of using the acquisition method. Under this method, the identiﬁable ordinary shares bought back or issued during the period and assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at fair is calculated by reference to the date of redemption or issue of value at the acquisition date and may be adjusted during the shares during the year; 12 months following this date. • diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing proﬁt or Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition price over the loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted net fair value of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities assumed of average number of ordinary shares outstanding as used to the acquiree (revalued net assets). Where an acquisition confers calculate basic earnings per share, both items being adjusted, control with remaining non-controlling interests (acquisition of 122 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 less than 100%), the Group elects either to recognize goodwill Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the on the full amount of revalued net assets, including the share estimated useful lives of the relevant assets. It is calculated attributable to non-controlling interests (full goodwill method, based on acquisition cost less any residual value. in force since January 1, 2010) or on the share in revalued net assets effectively acquired only (partial goodwill method). Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the When a business combination with residual non-controlling following estimated useful lives: interests provides for the grant of a put option to these nonBuildings 20 to 40 years controlling interests, an operating liability is recognized in this Fixtures and fittings 10 years respect in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Computer equipment 3 to 5 years through a reduction in reserves. Changes in this put option Office furniture and equipment 5 to 10 years resulting from any changes in estimates or the unwinding of the Vehicles 5 years discount will also be recognized through reserves. Any additional Other equipment 5 years acquisitions of non-controlling interests are considered a transaction with shareholders and, as such, are not remeasured. Residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at each period end. When the cost of a business combination is less than the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the The sale of property, plant and equipment gives rise to disposal difference is recognized immediately in the Income Statement. gains and losses corresponding to the difference between the selling price and the net carrying amount of the relevant asset. Acquisition-related costs are expensed in the Income Statement in the year incurred in “Other operating expenses”. H) Asset impairment tests Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are tested Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment at least for impairment when there is an indication at the period end that annually, or more frequently when events or changes in their recoverable amount may be less than their carrying amount. circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least once a year. The impairment test consists of assessing the value in use of b) Intangible assets each asset or group of assets generating cash flows that are Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted separate from the cash ﬂows generated by other assets or groups ownership basis, as well as software developed for internal use of assets (cash-generating units or CGU). The cash-generating units which has a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect on future identiﬁed by the Group are the geographic areas. results, are capitalized and amortized over three to ﬁve years. The assessment is performed using the discounted cash flows method and the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit The capitalized costs of software developed for internal use is calculated based on various assumptions used in the budget represent costs that relate directly to its production, i.e. the salary procedure and three-year plan extrapolated over a period of costs of the staff that developed the relevant software. five years, including growth and profitability rates considered reasonable. Standard discount rates (based on the weighted Finally, on certain business combinations, where the nature average cost of capital) and standard long-term growth rates for of the customer portfolio held by the entity and the nature of the period beyond ﬁve years are applied to all valuations of cashthe business performed, should enable the entity to continue generating units. These rates are determined based on analyses commercial relations with its customers as a result of efforts of the business segments in which the Group operates. When to build customer loyalty, customer relationships are valued in the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is less than its intangible assets and amortized over the known term of contracts carrying amount, the impairment loss is deducted from goodwill held in portfolio at the acquisition date. to the extent possible and charged to operating proﬁt under “Other operating expenses.” G) Property, plant and equipment The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is recorded I) Leases in assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and Leases that do not transfer to the Group substantially all the corresponds to the historical cost of these items, less accumulated risks and rewards incidental to ownership are classified as depreciation and any impairment. No items of property, plant and operating leases, and give rise to lease payments expensed as equipment have been revalued. Buildings owned by the Group are incurred over the lease term. measured based on the components approach. However, when the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership, the lease is classiﬁed as a Subsequent expenditure (costs of replacing and/or bringing ﬁnance lease and is recognized as an asset at the lower of the assets into compliance) are capitalized and depreciated over fair value of the leased asset and the present value of future the remaining useful lives of the relevant assets. Ongoing minimum lease payments, with the related obligation recorded maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. in liabilities within borrowings. The asset is depreciated over the CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 123 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 period during which it is expected to be used by the Group and a) Recognition of ﬁnancial instruments the obligation is amortized over the lease term. Deferred tax is Financial instruments are recognized at inception and on recognized as appropriate. subsequent dates in accordance with the methods described below. These methods draw on the following interest rate J) Treasury shares deﬁnitions: Cap Gemini S.A. shares held by the Company or by any • the coupon interest rate or coupon, which is the nominal consolidated companies are shown as a deduction from equity, interest rate on borrowings; at cost. Any proceeds from sales of treasury shares are taken • the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly directly to equity, net of the tax effect, so that the gain or loss on discounts the estimated cash ﬂows through the expected term the sale has no impact on the Income Statement for the period. of the instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the ﬁnancial asset or liability at initial K) Deferred taxes recognition. The effective interest rate takes into account all Deferred taxes are: fees paid or received, transaction costs, and, where applicable, • recorded to take account of temporary differences between premiums to be paid and received; the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities and their • the market interest rate, which reﬂects the effective interest tax basis; rate recalculated at the measurement date based on current • recognized in income or expenses in the Income Statement, market parameters. in income and expense recognized in equity, or directly in reserves in the period, depending on the underlying to which Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are initially they relate; recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position • measured taking account of known changes in tax rates (and at their initial fair value. tax regulations) adopted or practically adopted at the yearend. Adjustments for changes in tax rates to deferred taxes The subsequent measurement of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities previously recognized in the Income Statement, in income is based on either their fair value or amortized cost depending and expense recognized in equity or directly in reserves are on their classiﬁcation in the Consolidated Statement of Financial recognized in the Income Statement, in income and expense Position. Financial assets measured at amortized cost are recognized in equity or directly in reserves, respectively, in the subject to impairment tests as soon as there are indicators of period in which these changes become effective. a loss in value. Any loss in value is recognized in the Income Statement. Deferred tax assets are recognized when it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which the recognized tax The fair value of a ﬁnancial instrument is the amount for which asset can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between is reviewed at each period end. This amount is reduced to the knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. extent that it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available against which to offset all or part of the deferred Amortized cost corresponds to the initial carrying amount (net tax asset to be utilized. Any such reduction is reversed when it of transaction costs), plus interest calculated using the effective becomes probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available. interest rate, less cash outflows (coupon interest payments and repayments of principal, and redemption premiums where Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if, the applicable). Accrued interest (income and expense) is not subsidiaries have a legally enforceable right to offset current tax recorded on the basis of the financial instrument’s nominal assets against current tax liabilities, and when the deferred taxes interest rate, but on the basis of its effective interest rate. relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are derecognized when the related risks and rewards of ownership have been L) Financial instruments transferred, and when the Group no longer exercises control Financial instruments consist of: over the instruments. • ﬁnancial assets, including certain other non-current assets, accounts receivable, certain other current receivables, cash b) Derivative instruments management assets and cash and cash equivalents; Derivative instruments mainly comprise forward foreign exchange • ﬁnancial liabilities, including longand short-term borrowings contracts and interest rate swaps. and bank overdrafts, certain accounts payable, and certain Derivative instruments are initially recognized at fair value. Except other current payables and non-current liabilities. as described below in the case of instruments designated as cash ﬂow hedges, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, estimated based on market rates or data provided by bank counterparties, are recognized in the Income Statement at the period end. 124 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 When cash ﬂow hedges are eligible for hedge accounting, changes Statement, available-for-sale assets and derivative instruments, in the fair value of the hedging instruments are recognized ﬁrstly can be classiﬁed according to the following three fair value levels: in “Income and expense recognized in equity” and subsequently • Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for taken to operating proﬁt when the hedged item itself impacts the identical ﬁnancial assets or liabilities, Income Statement. • Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. c) Financial instrument classiﬁcation and fair value hierarchy derived from prices), Financial instruments valued at fair value after initial recognition, • Level 3: inputs that are not based on observable market data. that is ﬁnancial instruments at fair value through the Income Subsequent Financial assets Note Classification measurement Fair value hierarchy Shares in non-consolidated companies 14 Available-for-sale assets Fair value 1 Stock market price (fair value through equity) (quoted shares) Deposits and long-term receivables 14 Loans and receivables Amortized cost n/a Long-term investments 14 Fair value through Fair value 1 Market value (net asset the Income Statement value) Asset derivative instruments 19 Fair value through Fair value 2 Present value of future the Income Statement cash flows (ECB fixing) Accounts receivable (net of provisions) 15 Loans and receivables Amortized cost n/a Other short-term receivables 16 Loans and receivables Amortized cost n/a Cash management assets 17 Fair value through Fair value 1 Market value (net asset the Income Statement value) Cash and cash equivalents 17 Fair value through Fair value 1 Market value (net asset the Income Statement value) Subsequent Financial liabilities Note Classification measurement Fair value hierarchy Bonds 17 Liabilities carried Amortized cost n/a at amortized cost Finance lease obligations 17 Liabilities carried Amortized cost n/a at amortized cost Other borrowings 17 Liabilities carried Amortized cost n/a at amortized cost Liability derivative instruments 19 Fair value through Fair value 2 Present value of future the Income Statement cash flows (ECB fixing) Trade payables 23 Liabilities carried Amortized cost n/a at amortized cost Other liabilities 22, 24 Liabilities carried Amortized cost n/a at amortized cost Bank overdrafts 17 Fair value through Fair value 1 Market value (net asset the Income Statement value) M) Net cash and cash equivalents criteria for cash equivalents as defined in IAS 7. These cash Cash and cash equivalents consist of short-term investments management assets are therefore presented separately from and cash at bank less bank overdrafts, and also include the fair cash equivalents in the Statement of Financial Position. value of hedging instruments relating to these items. N) Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts Net cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash Deﬁned contribution plans equivalents as defined above, and cash management assets Defined contribution plans are funded by contributions paid (see below), less shortand long-term borrowings. Account is by employees and Group companies to the organizations also taken of the impact of hedging instruments when these responsible for managing the plans. The Group’s obligations relate to borrowings. are limited to the payment of such contributions which are expensed as incurred. The Group’s obligation under these Net cash and cash equivalents includes cash management plans is recorded in “Accounts and notes payable”. Defined assets, the characteristics of which do not strictly satisfy the contribution plans are operated in most European countries CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 125 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 (France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and O) Incentive instruments and employee share Central Europe, Nordic countries, Italy and Spain), in the United ownership States and in the Asia-Paciﬁc region. a) Instruments granted to employees Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans consist of either: Stock options • unfunded plans, where benefits are paid directly by the Stock options have been granted to certain Group employees Group and the related obligation is covered by a provision entitling them to purchase Cap Gemini S.A. shares over a period corresponding to the present value of future beneﬁt payments. of ﬁve years, at a strike price set when the options are granted. Estimates are based on regularly reviewed internal and external Stock options are measured at fair value, corresponding to the assumptions. These unfunded plans correspond mainly to value of the beneﬁt granted to the employee at the grant date. This retirement termination payments and healthcare assistance; amount is recognized in “Other operating expenses” in the Income • funded plans, where the benefit obligation is covered by Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a external funds. Group contributions to these external funds corresponding adjustment to equity. are made in accordance with the speciﬁc regulations in force The fair value of stock options is calculated using the “Black & in each country. Scholes” model, which incorporates assumptions concerning the option strike price and term, implicit share price volatility and Obligations under these plans are generally determined by the risk-free interest rate. The expense recognized also takes into independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. account staff attrition rates for eligible employee categories which Under this method, each period of service gives rise to an are reviewed each year. additional unit of beneﬁt entitlement and each of these units is valued separately in order to obtain the amount of the Group’s Performance shares ﬁnal obligation. Performance shares were granted to a certain number of Group employees, subject to performance and continued employment The resulting obligation is discounted by reference to market conditions, as set out in Note 9 – Equity. Share grants become yields on high quality corporate bonds, of a currency and term deﬁnitive after a vesting period of two or four years, depending consistent with the currency and term of the post-employment on the geographic location of the subsidiaries employing the beneﬁt obligation. beneﬁciaries. For funded plans, only the estimated funding short-fall is covered The shares are measured at fair value, corresponding to the by a provision. value of the beneﬁt granted to the employee at the grant date. This amount is recognized in “Other operating expenses” in the Current and past service costs –corresponding to an increase Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, in the obligation– are recorded within operating expenses, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. respectively on an as-incurred basis in the period and over the The fair value of performance shares is calculated using residual vesting period of the relevant rights. the “Monte Carlo” model, which incorporates assumptions concerning the share price at the grant date, implicit share price Gains or losses on the curtailment or settlement of defined volatility, the risk-free interest rate, the expected dividend yield benefit pension plans are recognized in “Other operating and external performance conditions (market conditions). income” or “Other operating expenses.” The expense recognized also takes into account staff attrition rates for eligible employee categories, which are reviewed The impact of discounting pension beneﬁt obligations as well each year, and internal performance conditions (non-market as the expected return on plan assets is recorded net in “Other conditions). ﬁnancial income” or “Other ﬁnancial expense.” b) Instruments proposed to employees Actuarial gains and losses correspond to the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) differences between projected actuarial assumptions and Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants were actual data) on the amount of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation or proposed to employees and corporate officers of the Group. the value of plan assets. They are recognized in full in “Income They confer entitlement to subscribe for Cap Gemini S.A. shares and expense recognized directly in equity” in the year in which at a strike price determined at their date of acquisition by the they arise. employees and corporate officers of the Group. The exercise period commences the date of listing of the BSAAR warrants on the Euronext Paris market and terminates on the seventh anniversary of the issue date. The issue price of these BSAAR warrants is equal to their market value and no beneﬁt granted to beneﬁciaries is recognized in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Company. 126 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Employee savings plan Foreign currency cash flows are translated into euros at the A leveraged employee share ownership plan offering the possibility average exchange rate for the year. Exchange gains or losses to subscribe for shares at a discounted preferential rate was resulting from the translation of cash flows relating to foreign set up by the Group. When determining the IFRS 2 expense currency assets and liabilities at the year-end exchange rate are measuring the beneﬁt granted to employees, the Group adjusts shown in “Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash the amount of the discount granted by the Group to employees on equivalents” in the Statement of Cash Flows. the subscription price based on the following two items: • the cost of the non-transferability of shares granted to R) Operating segments employees during a period of ﬁve years. This cost is measured Group Management analyzes and measures activity performance: taking account of the ﬁve-year lock-in period. It corresponds • in the different businesses (Consulting Services, Technology to the cost of a two-stage strategy under which the market Services, Local Professional Services and Outsourcing participant enters into a forward sale effective at the end of the Services) and ﬁve-year lock-in period and simultaneously borrows the amount • in the geographic areas where the Group is present. necessary to buy a share available for immediate transfer. This borrowing is ﬁnanced with the proceeds from the forward sale The business analysis enables the transversal management of the share and the dividends received during the lock-in period. and monitoring of resources and service production in 2011 in This cost is calculated based on the following assumptions: the seven strategic business units and therefore the roll-out of the subscription price is set by the Chief Executive Officer uniform expertise and know-how in all countries and regions. pursuant to the powers delegated by the Board of Directors. This subscription price is equal to the average Cap Gemini S.A. The geographic analysis enables management to monitor the share price, adjusted for volume, during the twenty trading days performance: preceding the decision of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, to which • of commercial development: it focuses on trends in major a discount is applied; contracts and clients in Group markets across all its the grant date is the date at which employees are fully informed businesses. This monitoring seeks to coordinate the service of the speciﬁc characteristics and terms and conditions of the offering of the different businesses in the territories, given their offer and particularly the subscription price; considerable interaction and to measure the services rendered. the loan rate granted to employees and used to determine the These analyses are performed by Group Management within cost of the non-transferability of shares, is the rate at which the Coordination Committee of the geographic area, which a bank would grant a consumer loan repayable on maturity brings together the business managers operating in a given without allocation, to a private individual with an average risk area; proﬁle, for a term corresponding to the term of the plan; • at operational and financial level: management of treasury • the opportunity benefit reflecting the possibility granted an d sup p or t ser vice s, th e op erating inve s tm ent an d to employees to benefit from market terms and conditions ﬁnancing policies and the acquisition policy are decided and identical to those of the Group. implemented by geographic area. In those countries where an Employee Savings Mutual Fund This led the Group to present its segment reporting for the (Fonds Commun de Placement Entreprise) cannot be set up or 8 geographic areas grouping together the countries where it is is not relevant, the employee share ownership plan (@ESOP) located. includes a Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism. The beneﬁt offered by the Group corresponds to the amount of the Costs relating to operations and incurred by Group holding discount on the share subscription price. companies on behalf of geographic areas are allocated to the relevant segments either directly or on the basis of an allocation P) Provisions key. Items not allocated correspond to headquarter expenses. A provision is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at the year-end if, and only if, (i) the Group has Inter-segment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past basis. event; (ii) it is probable that an outﬂow of resources embodying economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation; and (iii) S) Exchange gains and losses on inter-company a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. transactions Provisions are discounted when the impact of the time value of The results and financial position of a foreign subsidiary are money is material. included in the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements using consolidation procedures, such as the elimination of interQ) Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows company balances and transactions. However, an intercompany The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows analyzes the year-onshortor long-term monetary asset (or liability) cannot be year change in cash ﬂows from operating, investing and ﬁnancing eliminated against the corresponding inter-company liability activities. (or asset) without showing the results of currency ﬂuctuations CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 127 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. This is because the ﬁnancial statements, these exchange differences continue to be monetary item represents a commitment to convert one recognized in the Income statement or in Income and expense currency into another and exposes the Group to a gain or loss recognized directly in equity, if the underlying forms an integral through currency ﬂuctuations. Accordingly, in the consolidated part of the net investment in the foreign operation. NOTE 2 – CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE Acquisitions during ﬁscal year 2011 Prosodie On July 29, 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the Prosodie group for a cost of €376 million. A Cloud Computing player, the Prosodie group specializes in the management of telecommunication, internet and payment transaction ﬂows for major clients. It operates in France and Europe. The Prosodie group is fully consolidated. At December 31, 2011, the provisional allocation of the acquisition price can be summarized as follows: Historical Fair value Fair in millions of euros cost adjustments value Goodwill 113 (113) Intangible assets 4 4 Property, plant and equipment 13 13 Deferred taxes 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 6 6 Other assets and liabilities (17) 1 (16) Net assets at the acquisition date 122 (112) 10 Goodwill 366 Acquisition price 376 Acquisition-related costs 3.2 Employees at the acquisition date 895 128 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 CS Consulting On February 4, 2011, the Group ﬁnalized the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of CS Consulting for a cost of €49 million. Based in Germany, the company specializes in the migration of core banking systems as well as the implementation of business intelligence solutions. CS Consulting is fully consolidated. At December 31, 2011, the provisional allocation of the acquisition price can be summarized as follows: Historical Fair value Fair in millions of euros cost adjustments value Goodwill 23 (23) Intangible assets 4 4 Property, plant and equipment Deferred taxes (1) (1) Cash and cash equivalents 5 5 Long-term and short-term borrowings (7) (7) Other assets and liabilities 9 (2) 7 Net assets at the acquisition date 30 (22) 8 Goodwill 41 Acquisition price 49 Acquisition-related costs 0.6 Employees at the acquisition date 242 Artésys On March 30, 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Artésys S.A. for a cost of €31 million. A Paris-based IT service provider, Artésys is a French leader in the design of infrastructure solutions. The company is fully consolidated. At December 31, 2011, the provisional allocation of the acquisition price can be summarized as follows: Historical Fair value Fair in millions of euros cost adjustments value Goodwill 4 (4) Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Net cash and cash equivalents 4 4 Other assets and liabilities (4) (4) Net assets at the acquisition date 4 (4) Goodwill 31 Acquisition price 31 Acquisition-related costs 0.4 Employees at the acquisition date 131 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 129 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 AIVE Group The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of AIVE (in Italy) on August 31, 2011 for a total consideration of €40 million. The company is fully consolidated from September 1, 2011. At December 31, 2011, the provisional allocation of the acquisition price can be summarized as follows: Historical Fair value in millions of euros cost adjustments Fair value Goodwill 2 (2) Intangible assets 1 (1) Property, plant and equipment 1 1 Deferred taxes 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents Long-term and short-term borrowings (6) (6) Other assets and liabilities 7 7 Net assets at the acquisition date 6 (3) 3 Goodwill 37 Acquisition price (paid in full in cash and cash equivalents) 40 Acquisition-related costs 0.9 Employees at the acquisition date 623 Other acquisitions during ﬁscal year 2011 CPM Braxis S.A. which is fully consolidated since this date. The future acquisition of the residual 43.94% of share capital is The Group acquired Avantias, Backelite and Level IP in France, covered by a put option granted to minority shareholders. This BI Consulting Group in the United States, Praxis in China and put option, which may be exercised between October 2013 and the activities of Vengroff Williams Associates Inc. (primarily October 2015, was recognized in liabilities through a reduction located in the United States), representing a total headcount in reserves (attributable to owners of the Company). of 729 employees. The total cost of these acquisitions was The put option was partially hedged in ﬁscal year 2011 to limit the €78 million. Acquisition-related costs in respect of these Group’s exposure to ﬂuctuations in the Brazilian real exchange transactions totaled €2 million. These entities are fully rate up to its exercise date. consolidated and generated provisional goodwill of €72 million. At the end of the acquisition price allocation period, the acquisition price was BRL 489 million (€202 million at December 31, 2011), compared to BRL 519 million (€224 million at the Contribution of acquisitions during ﬁscal acquisition date). The goodwill recognized on initial consolidation year 2011 nonetheless remains unchanged at BRL 525 million (€226 million at the acquisition date). The companies acquired in 2011 contributed €162 million to Group revenues, including €83 million for Prosodie (estimated On December 27, 2011, the Group, through the intermediary of at €309 million if the companies had been acquired on January its subsidiary Capgemini do Brasil Consultoria e Participações 1, 2011, including €161 million for Prosodie). Ltda, participated in the share capital increase performed by Their contribution to Group operating margin in 2011 was CPM Braxis S.A. subscribing for ordinary shares with a total €19 million, including €12 million for Prosodie (estimated at value of BRL 250 million. The minority shareholder, Uñiao €28 million if the companies had been acquired on January 1, Participações Ltda, a subsidiary of the Brazilian bank, Banco 2011, including €18 million for Prosodie). Bradesco S.A., also subscribed for new shares under this share Their contribution to Group net proﬁ t in 2011 was €9 million, capital increase in the amount of BRL 80 million, increasing its including €5 million for Prosodie (estimated at €8 million if the investment to 10.81%. Following completion of this transaction, companies had been acquired on January 1, 2011, including the Group’s investment in CPM Braxis S.A. increased from €4 million for Prosodie). 56.06% to 61.10%. The new shares subscribed during this share capital increase by the minority shareholder, Uñiao Overview of major acquisitions in previous Participações Ltda, a subsidiary of the Brazilian bank Banco ﬁscal years Bradesco S.A, are covered by a put option that may be exercised between October 2013 and October 2015, and were recognized CPM Braxis in liabilities in the amount of €33 million through a reduction in On October 6, 2010, the Group acquired 56.06% of the reserves (attributable to owners of the Company). share capital of the number one IT service provider in Brazil, 130 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 3 – REVENUES 2009 2010 2011 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % North America 1,590 19 1,665 19 1,805 19 France 1,949 23 1,931 22 2,138 22 United Kingdom and Ireland 1,852 22 1,912 22 1,945 20 Benelux 1,397 17 1,314 16 1,266 13 Southern Europe and Latin America 434 5 599 7 1,000 10 Nordic countries 488 6 543 6 635 7 Germany and Central Europe 531 6 534 6 626 6 Asia-Pacific 130 2 199 2 278 3 REVENUES 8,371 100 8,697 100 9,693 100 The year-on-year increase in revenues in 2011 was 11.40%, based on the year-end Group structure and exchange rates, compared to 5.6% on a like-for-like basis (constant Group structure and exchange rates). NOTE 4 – OPERATING EXPENSES BY NATURE 2009 2010 2011 in millions of euros Amount % of revenues Amount % of revenues Amount % of revenues Personnel costs 4,851 58.0 5,193 59.7 5,816 60.0 Travel expenses 330 3.9 370 4.2 391 4.0 5,181 61.9 5,563 63.9 6,207 64.0 Purchases and sub-contracting expenses 2,082 24.9 2,042 23.5 2,231 23.0 Rent and local taxes 304 3.6 282 3.2 324 3.3 Depreciation, amortization and provisions 209 2.5 223 2.6 218 2.3 and proceeds from asset disposals OPERATING EXPENSES 7,776 92.9 8,110 93.2 8,980 92.6 In 2011, Research Tax Credit income deducted from operating expenses (purchases and sub-contracting expenses) totaled €42 million (€26 million in 2010) including €27 million in respect of projects costs expensed in prior years (€14 million in 2010). Breakdown of personnel costs in millions of euros Note 2009 2010 2011 Wages and salaries 3,871 4,138 4,583 Payroll taxes 945 1,008 1,183 Pension costs related to defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefit expenses 20 35 47 50 PERSONNEL COSTS 4,851 5,193 5,816 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 131 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 5 – OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE in millions of euros Note 2009 2010 2011 Restructuring costs (213) (71) (81) o/w Workforce reduction (151) (44) (74) o/w Real estate assets streamlining (52) (19) (4) o/w Rightshoring (10) (8) (3) Integration cost relating to acquired companies (16) (11) (9) Acquisition-related costs 2 n/a (4) (7) Expenses relating to share subscriptions, share grants and stock options 9 (19) (16) (17) Impairment of goodwill 12 (12) Other operating income 7 6 Other operating expenses (9) (2) (4) OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE (262) (98) (118) Restructuring costs Integration cost relating to acquired companies 2011 restructuring costs primarily concern workforce reduction In 2011, these costs relate to the integration of the activities of measures and the streamlining of real estate assets, particularly CPM Braxis acquired at the end of 2010 and integration costs in the Netherlands. relating to acquisitions of the period. NOTE 6 – NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE in millions of euros Note 2009 2010 2011 Income from cash equivalents and cash management assets 22 20 23 Interest on borrowings (31) (42) (54) Finance costs at the nominal interest rate (9) (22) (31) Impact of amortized cost on borrowings (34) (32) (34) Finance costs at the effective interest rate (43) (54) (65) Net interest cost on defined benefit pension plans 20 (42) (28) (25) Exchange gains (losses) on financial transactions 19 (66) 2 2 Currency derivative instruments on financial transactions 19 63 (2) (4) Interest rate derivative instruments 19 (2) Other (3) (5) (13) Other financial income and expense (50) (33) (40) o/w financial expense (125) (55) (104) o/w financial income 75 22 64 NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE (93) (87) (105) Net ﬁnance costs mainly comprise: • interest on ﬁnance leases of €8 million (primarily in the United • the coupons on OCEANE bonds convertible/exchangeable Kingdom, France and the United States); into new or existing Cap Gemini S.A. shares issued on June 16, • interest on CPM Braxis group bank loans of €16 million, 2005 (OCEANE 2005) and April 20, 2009 (OCEANE 2009) • income from cash and cash equivalents of €23 million, the of €24 million, plus an amortized cost accounting impact of increase in which is due to improved returns on short-term €34 million, investments. • the coupons on the new bond issue issued on November 29, 2011 of €2 million, 132 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 In other financial income and expense, currency derivative The decrease in the net interest cost on deﬁned beneﬁt pension instruments on ﬁnancial transactions mainly concern fair value plans is analyzed in Note 20 – Provisions for pensions and other gains and losses on currency swaps hedging intercompany post-employment beneﬁts. loans granted by Capgemini UK Plc., Inergi LP and New Horizons System Solutions LP to Cap Gemini S.A. and an interOther net ﬁnancial expenses are primarily borne by the CPM Braxis company loan granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to Capgemini North group in the amount of €11 million and mainly comprise bank America Inc. and factoring commission. NOTE 7 – INCOME TAX EXPENSE in millions of euros Note 2009 2010 2011 Current income taxes (24) (71) (129) Deferred taxes 13 (37) (53) 28 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (61) (124) (101) In 2011, the current income tax expense includes in France: The deferred tax income recognized in 2011 includes in particular • the Corporate Value-Added Contribution (Cotisation sur la the utilization of US deferred tax assets in the amount of USD Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises, CVAE), a tax introduced by 72 million (€52 million) and the remeasurement of the same US the 2010 Finance Act, in the amount of €29 million (compared deferred tax in the amount of USD 177 million (€127 million) (see to €25 million in 2010); Note 13 – Deferred taxes). This remeasurement accounts for • an income tax charge of €15 million on tax group profits, the majority of the decrease in the effective tax rate presented following application of the 60% cap on the offset of tax losses below. introduced by the second 2011 Supplementary Finance Act. The difference between the French standard rate of income tax and the effective Group tax rate can be analyzed as follows: 2009 2010 2011 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % Profit before tax 240 402 490 Standard tax rate in France (%) 34.4 34.4 36.1 Tax expense at the standard rate (83) 34.4 (138) 34.4 (177) 36.1 Difference in tax rates between countries 7 (2.9) 9 (2.3) 16 (3.3) Impact of: Deferred tax assets not recognized on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising 1 (0.6) (9) 2.3 2 (0.3) in the period Net recognition of deferred tax assets on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising prior 16 (6.5) 24 (6.1) 67 (13.6) to January 1 Utilization of previously unrecognized tax 3 (1.3) 6 (1.5) (1) 0.1 loss carry-forwards Adjustments to prior years 29 (12.1) 9 (2.3) Minimum income tax charge (13) 5.1 (38) 9.3 (45) 9.2 Permanent differences and other items (21) 9.4 13 (2.9) 37 (7.5) ACTUAL TAX EXPENSE (61) 25.5 (124) 30.9 (101) 20.6 Effective rate of income tax (%) 25.5 30.9 20.6 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 133 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 The fourth 2011 Supplementary Finance Act, published in the the income tax charge and is payable by companies reporting Ofﬁcial Journal on December 29, 2011, introduced an additional revenues in excess of €250 million. In the case of a tax group income tax contribution in respect of ﬁscal years ending from election, the revenues of all member companies of the tax group December 31, 2011 to December 30, 2013. are added together when assessing whether the group is liable for this contribution. This exceptional contribution is limited in time and should only Consequently, the standard tax rate applicable to the Group concern, for companies whose fiscal year is aligned with the for ﬁscal year 2011 is 36.10% compared to 34.43% previously. calendar year, ﬁscal years 2011 and 2012. It is equal to 5% of NOTE 8 – EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share 2009 2010 2011 Profit for the year (in millions of euros) 178 280 404 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 145,153,387 152,979,307 153,595,650 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE (IN EUROS) 1.23 1.83 2.63 The marginal year-on-year increase in the average number as the increase in the operating margin of Capgemini Group of shares between 2010 and 2011 reflects in reality the near in 2011 at constant Group structure and exchange rates, was stability in the number of shares since December 31, 20. greater than 15%, 401,850 performance shares could have been granted at December 31 if the performance measurement Diluted earnings per share period ended at that date; Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming • the 16,911,765 “OCEANE 2009” convertible bonds issued on conversion into ordinary shares of all dilutive instruments April 20, 2009, as the €23 million interest expense recorded outstanding at the period end. The average share price in 2011 (net of taxes) on the bonds is lower per bond than basic was €33.95. earnings per share. These bonds are convertible at any time until the seventh business day preceding January 1, 2014, when At December 31, 2011, instruments considered dilutive for the they will be redeemable at par. purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share include: • shares falling within the scope of the 20 09 and 2010 Conversely, the following financial instruments are not performance share plans and not subject to any performance considered dilutive: conditions; • employee stock options, as the average price of ordinary • performance shares subject to market performance conditions shares during the period is inferior to the strike price of the contained in the 2010 plan. As the per formance of the options; Cap Gemini S.A. share since the grant date, at December 31, • the Redeemable Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants, as 2011, is between 90% and 91% of the performance of the the aggregate of the €34 strike price and €3.22 issue premium reference basket, 493,560 performance shares would have is higher than the average market price of the Cap Gemini been granted at December 31 if the performance measurement share in 2011; period ended at that date; • the “OCEANE 2005” convertible bonds issued on June 16, • the performance shares subject to internal performance 2005, not converted and as such redeemed in full on January 2, conditions contained in the 2010 plan. At December 31, 2011, 2012 (see Note 17 – Net cash and cash equivalents). 134 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 in millions of euros 2009 2010 2011 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 178 280 404 Finance cost savings linked to the conversion of debt instruments, net of tax (1) 14 37 23 Diluted profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 192 317 427 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) Weighted average number of ordinary shares 145,153,387 152,979,307 153,595,650 Adjusted for: “OCEANE 2005” convertible/exchangeable bonds (weighted average) 11,810,809 11,810,809 “OCEANE 2009” convertible/exchangeable bonds (weighted average) 16,911,765 16,911,765 Employee stock options 36,428 Performance shares that can be granted 64,750 537,320 1,207,035 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 157,065,374 182,239,201 171,714,450 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 1.22 1.74 2.49 (1) Only OCEANE 2009 convertibles bonds are taken into account as they are the only bonds considered dilutive. NOTE 9 – EQUITY Incentive instruments and employee share The Group has no contractual or constructive obligations to ownership purchase or settle the options in cash. In the event of a notice of authorization of a takeover bid for Stock option plans some or all of the Company’s shares published by Euronext, At the May 12, 2005 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the option holders would be entitled, if they so wish, to exercise all Board of Directors was given a 38-month authorization to grant of their remaining unexercised options immediately. stock options to certain Group employees on one or several occasions. The main features of this plan and the bases of calculation are set out in the table below: 2005 Plan Date of Combined Shareholders’ Meeting May 12, 2005 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of options 6,000,000 Date options first granted under the plan October 1, 2005 Deadline for exercising stock options after their grant date (based on progressive tranches) 5 years Strike price as a % of the average share price over the 20 stock market trading days preceding the grant date 100% Subscription price (per share and in euros) of the various stock option grants Low 40.50 High 55.00 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of outstanding options at December 31, 2010 3,482,500 Number of new stock options granted during the year Plan expired (1) Number of options forfeited or cancelled in 2011 1,767,000 (2) Number of options exercised in 2011 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of outstanding options at December 31, 2011 1,715,500 (3) Residual weighted average life (in years) 0.77 (1) Last stock options granted on June 1, 2008 at a price of €40.50. (2) No options were granted in fiscal year 2011. (3) Representing 144,000 shares at a price of €55, 1,413,000 shares at €44 and 158,500 shares at €40.50. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 135 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Summary 2005 Plan Grant dates October 1, October 1, April 1, October 1, June 1, 2005 2006 2007 2007 2008 Number of shares initially granted 1,915,500 2,067,000 400,000 1,932,500 219,000 Of which granted to executive corporate officers 50,000 50,000 Subscription price (per share and in euros) of the various 30 43 55 44 40.5 stock option grants Share price at the grant date 32.59 41.84 57.00 42.98 43.37 Number of shares subscribed at December 31, 2011 1,295,306 1,100 Principal market conditions at the grant date: Volatility 27.4-29.4% 32.4-35.9% 31.7-32.7% 34.8-35.7% 41.2-42.3% Average length of the option exercise period (in years) 3-4.25 3-4.25 3-4.25 3-4.25 3-4.25 Risk-free interest rate 2.3-2.7% 3.55-3.58% 4.14-4.15% 4.09-4.14% 4.26-4.35% Expected dividend rate 1% 1% 1.5% 1.5% 2.3% Non-market conditions: Employee presence within the Group at the exercise date yes yes yes yes yes Other no no no no no Pricing model used to calculate stock option fair values Black & Scholes Range of fair values in euros 7.6-9.4 10.7-11.7 14.5-17.1 10.6-12.6 13.5-15.3 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of 144,000 1,413,000 158,500 outstanding options at December 31, 2011 Impact on the ﬁnancial statements An expense of €0.3 million was recognized in 2011 in “Other operating expenses”. The residual amount to be amortized between 2012 and 2013 in respect of active option grants is €0.6 million. Performance share plan and 18 months, respectively, subject to certain performance and The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of April 17, 2008 and presence conditions within the Group. On March 5, 2009 and April 30, 2009, authorized the Board of Directors to grant then on September 15, 2010, the Board of Directors approved shares to a certain number of Group employees, on one or the terms and conditions and the list of beneﬁciaries of the ﬁrst several occasions and within a maximum period of 12 months and second plans. 136 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: Of which Of which corporate corporate Summary 2009 Plan officers 2010 Plan officers Date of Combined Shareholders’ Meeting April 17, 2008 April 30, 2009 Total number of shares to be granted 1% of the share capital 1% of the share capital on the date of the Board on the date of the Board of Directors’ decision, i.e. of Directors' decision, i.e. a maximum of 1,458,860 a maximum of 1,557,703 shares shares Total number of shares granted 1,148,250 (1) 1,555,000 (3) Date of the Board of Directors’ decision March 5, 2009 October 1, 2010 Performance assessment dates At the end of the first and At the end of the first and second years following second years following the grant date the grant date Vesting period Two years as from the Two years as from the grant date (France) grant date (France) or four years as from or four years as from the grant date (other the grant date (other countries) countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date Two years, or five years Two years, or five years (France only) in the event of departure in the event of departure from the Group during from the Group during the two years following the two years following the vesting date the vesting date Number of shares subject to performance and presence (5) conditions granted during the year Number of options forfeited or canceled during the year 534,125 25,000 94,000 Number of shares definitively allocated at December 31, 200,250 25,000 2011 Number of shares at December 31, 2011 that may be definitively allocated under this plan in respect of shares 311,625 (2) 1,458,000 (4) previously granted, subject to performance and presence conditions Share price at the grant date (in euros) 23.30 37.16 Main market conditions at the grant date: Volatility 42.7% 42.8% Risk-free interest rate 1.4% 1.67% Expected dividend rate 3.0% 3.0% Other conditions: Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair values of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) Monte Carlo for conditions performance sharesBlack& Scholes for Black& Scholes for bonus shares granted without shares conditions or with internal performance conditions Range of fair values in euros: Bonus shares (per share and in euros) 20.7 21.9 32.32 32.96 17.53 n/a Performance shares (per share and in euros) 16.51 17.53 21.54 21.97 (1) Of which 64,750 shares granted without performance conditions (3) Of which 124,000 shares granted without performance conditions (5.6% of the total) pursuant to the relevant resolution (authorization (8% of the total) pursuant to the relevant resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). capped at 15% of the total). (2) Balance on the “foreign” plan that may be allocated on March 5, (4) Of which 118,500 shares granted without performance conditions. 2013, subject to conditions of presence. (5) No performance shares were granted in 2011. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 137 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Performance conditions of the 2009 plan will be equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated The exact number of shares vesting at the end of the vesting if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is equal to period will be equal to the maximum number of shares initially 100% of the basket; granted, multiplied by a percentage (from 0% to 100%) will vary on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and corresponding to the chosen performance measurement criteria. between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on The performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share, measured over a predefined schedule, where the performance of the Cap the ﬁrst two years, compared to the average performance of a Gemini S.A. share is between 90% and 100% of the basket basket of ten securities of listed companies, measured over the in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in the same period and representative of the Group’s business sector in second case; at least ﬁve countries in which the Group is ﬁrmly established, will will be equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated ultimately condition the vesting of the shares. if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is higher than or equal to 110% of the basket. The deﬁnitive allocation depends on the relative performance of Under these conditions, if the performance of the Cap Gemini the Cap Gemini S.A. share in relation to the basket of comparable S.A. share is in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, securities. In each period, the number of shares that ultimately only 60% of the initial allocation will be granted compared to vested: 80% under the ﬁrst plan. • was equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated The external performance condition accounts for 70% of the if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share was equal to grant calculation. 90% of the basket; • varied on a straight-line basis between 60% and 100% of the Internal performance condition: initial allocation, based on a predeﬁned schedule, where the The internal performance condition is based on the progression performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share was between 90% in the 2011 audited and published operating margin of Capgemini and 110% of the basket; Group compared with the 2010 operating margin at constant • was equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if Group structure and exchange rates. the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share was higher than The performance calculation will be performed once the 2011 or equal to 110% of the basket. accounts have been approved, by comparing the percentage increase in the 2011 audited and published operating margin The definitive calculation led to the grant of only 50% of of Capgemini Group compared with the 2010 audited and performance shares initially allocated, which after adding shares published operating margin at constant Group structure and granted subject to conditions of presence, represents a maximum exchange rates. Based on the percentage increase calculated of 534,750 shares granted. This includes 200,250 shares for grant in this way: to members of the French plan which are deﬁnitively vested and • no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance delivered subject to a 2-year lock-in period and 334,500 shares for condition if the increase in the operating margin thus calculated grant to members of the foreign plan, of which only 311,625 shares is less than 12%; remain, which will be delivered on March 5, 2013 subject to • the number of shares that will ultimately vest: compliance with conditions of presence at this date. will be equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if the increase is between 12% and 13.5%; Performance conditions of the 2010 plan will be equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, if the increase is between 13.5% and 15%; 20 0 9 reg arding th e in clusion of internal an d ex ternal will be equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated performance conditions when granting performance shares, if the increase is greater than or equal to 15%. the Board of Directors decided to add an internal condition to The internal performance condition accounts for 30% of the the external condition initially planned. grant calculation. External performance condition: The fair value of shares subject to external performance The external performance condition is calculated in the same conditions was adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance way as under the ﬁrst plan, except for the grant thresholds which with the Monte Carlo model, together with a discount for nonhave been tightened compared to the ﬁrst plan. As such: transferability for the shares granted in France. • no shares will be granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini The fair value of shares subject to internal performance S.A. share during the period in question is less than 90% of conditions is taken into account assuming 100% realization, to the average performance of the basket of securities over the which an adjustment may be applied depending on the effective same period; realization or not of this performance condition, and together • the number of shares that will ultimately vest: with a discount for non-transferability for the shares granted will be equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated in France. if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is at least equal to 90% of the basket; 138 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Impact on the ﬁnancial statements In view of the small number of treasury shares held, the Group An expense of €15.7 million was recognized in 2011 in “Other is not therefore exposed to significant equity risk. Finally, as operating expenses” in respect of per formance shares the value of treasury shares is deducted from equity, changes (including employer contributions). The residual amount to be in the share price have no impact on the Consolidated Income amortized between 2012 and 2015 in respect of these two plans Statement. is €24.5 million. The Group’s capital management strateg y is designed Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants to maintain a strong capital base in view of supporting the (bons de souscription et / ou d’acquisition d’actions continued development of its business activities and delivering remboursables – bsaar) (reminder 2009) a return to shareholders, while adopting a prudent approach to During 20 09, 2,999,0 0 0 warrants were subscribed by debt as evidenced by the use of the debt-to-equity ratio as a key employees and corporate officers of the Group (at a price performance indicator. At December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, of €3.22 per warrant), generating income net of issue costs the Group had a positive net cash position. In order to preserve of €9 million. The exercise period commences the date of and control the structure of its capital, the Group can issue new listing of the BSAAR warrants on the Euronext Paris market and shares, buy back its own shares or adjust the dividend paid to terminates on the seventh anniversary of the issue date. The shareholders. warrants will be listed on July 23, 2013. Between July 23, 2009 and the date the warrants are admitted to trading on Euronext Paris, they may not be exercised or transferred except under Currency risk and translation gains and the conditions speciﬁed in the issue agreement (namely in the losses on the accounts of subsidiaries with event of a takeover bid for Cap Gemini S.A. shares). The issue a functional currency other than the euro was disclosed in a prospectus approved by the AMF on May 14, 2009 under reference number 09-140. Regarding risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, as a substantial Employee share ownership plan – @ESOP proportion of the Group’s consolidated revenues are generated (recap 2009) in the UK and the US (20% and 16% respectively in 2011), In the second half of 2009, the Group set-up an employee fluctuations in the pound sterling and the US dollar against share ownership plan (@ESOP). On December 16, 2009, the the euro may have an impact on the consolidated financial Group issued 5,999,999 new shares reserved for employees statements. The positive impact on translation reserves is with a par value of €8, representing a share capital increase of mainly due to the appreciation of the US dollar against the euro €164 million. during 2011. The total cost of this employee share ownership plan in 2009 For example, a 10% fluctuation in the pound sterling-euro was €1 million and was the result of a mechanism granting exchange rate would trigger a corresponding 2% change in employees entitlement to capital gains on shares in countries revenues and 2% change in operating margin. Similarly, a 10% where the set-up of an Employees Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) ﬂuctuation in the US dollar-euro exchange rate would trigger a was not possible or appropriate. corresponding 1.6% change in revenues and a 1.7% change in operating margin. Treasury shares and management of share The Group does not hedge risks arising on the translation of capital and market risks the foreign currency accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro. The main exchange The Group does not hold any shares for ﬁnancial investment rates used for the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements are purposes and does not have any interests in listed companies. presented in Note 1-B – Accounting policies: Foreign currency However, at December 31, 2011, under the share buyback translation. program Cap Gemini S.A. holds: • 403,500 treasury shares following the implementation of a liquidity agreement (the associated liquidity line amounts to €10 million), pursuant to the related share buyback program described in a prospectus published on May 12, 2011; • 1,799,750 treasury shares representing 1.2% of the share capital at December 31, 2011, purchased between January 17 and 25, 2008, at an average price of €34.48, representing a decrease of 200,250 in the number of shares available. At December 31, 2011, the value of these treasury shares was deducted from consolidated equity in the amount of €84 million. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 139 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 10 – GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Customer Licenses and Other in millions of euros Note Goodwill relationships software intangible assets Total GROSS At January 1, 2009 2,771 140 129 158 3,198 Translation adjustments 9 27 1 4 1 33 Acquisitions / Increase 16 4 20 Internal developments 6 6 Disposals / Decrease (5) (15) (6) (26) Business combinations 2 11 3 (1) 13 Other movements (9) (8) (9) (26) At December 31, 2009 2,800 131 125 162 3,218 Translation adjustments 9 122 9 7 3 141 Acquisitions / Increase 16 4 20 Internal developments 7 7 Disposals / Decrease (28) (4) (10) (42) Business combinations 2 330 52 31 16 429 Other movements (1) (2) (3) At December 31, 2010 3,251 164 173 182 3,770 Translation adjustments 9 25 (2) (3) 20 Acquisitions / Increase 22 22 Internal developments 6 6 Disposals / Decrease (15) (4) (19) Business combinations 2 547 9 22 5 583 Other movements (4) 2 3 1 At December 31, 2011 3,819 173 199 192 4,383 ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION At January 1, 2009 53 101 124 278 Translation adjustments 9 4 4 Charge 17 17 8 42 Disposals (5) (14) (6) (25) Business combinations 2 1 1 Other movements (8) (8) At December 31, 2009 65 100 127 292 Translation adjustments 9 3 6 2 11 Charge 20 18 10 48 Disposals (28) (4) (8) (40) Business combinations 2 20 9 29 Other movements (1) (1) At December 31, 2010 60 139 140 339 Translation adjustments 9 1 (2) (1) Charge 25 21 9 55 Disposals (14) (4) (18) Business combinations 2 18 2 20 Other movements 1 1 At December 31, 2011 86 162 148 396 IMPAIRMENT At January 1, 2009 45 1 8 54 Translation adjustments 9 1 1 Charge 12 1 13 Disposals Business combinations 2 Other movements (8) (8) At December 31, 2009 50 1 9 60 Translation adjustments 9 Charge Disposals Business combinations 2 1 1 Other movements At December 31, 2010 50 1 10 61 Translation adjustments 9 Charge Disposals Business combinations 2 Other movements 1 3 4 At December 31, 2011 51 1 13 65 NET AT DECEMBER 31, 2009 2,750 66 24 26 2,866 AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 3,201 104 33 32 3,370 AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 3,768 87 36 31 3,922 The substantial increase in goodwill and customer relationships is attributable to the various acquisitions performed during the period and presented in Note 2 – Changes in Group structure (€556 million) and translation adjustments (€23 million). 140 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 11 – PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, buildings, Other fixtures and Computer intangible in millions of euros Note fittings equipment assets Total GROSS At January 1, 2009 430 393 129 952 Translation adjustments 9 7 12 3 22 Acquisitions / Increase 41 85 13 139 Disposals / Decrease (21) (98) (7) (126) Business combinations 2 1 1 Other movements 2 31 (7) 26 At December 31, 2009 459 423 132 1,014 Translation adjustments 9 14 22 10 46 Acquisitions / Increase 66 80 23 169 Disposals / Decrease (16) (105) (4) (125) Business combinations 2 34 89 15 138 Other movements (23) (5) 12 (16) At December 31, 2010 534 504 188 1,226 Translation adjustments 9 (6) (10) (10) (26) Acquisitions / Increase 53 111 26 190 Disposals / Decrease (10) (44) (5) (59) Business combinations 2 25 38 8 71 Other movements (3) 5 (10) (8) At December 31, 2011 593 604 197 1394 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At January 1, 2009 178 261 91 530 Translation adjustments 9 4 8 2 14 Charge 35 75 11 121 Disposals (17) (77) (5) (99) Business combinations 2 1 1 Other movements 28 (2) 26 At December 31, 2009 200 295 98 593 Translation adjustments 9 5 16 5 26 Charge 41 74 14 129 Disposals (14) (94) (4) (112) Business combinations 2 12 82 7 101 Other movements (14) (3) 7 (10) At December 31, 2010 230 370 127 727 Translation adjustments 9 (9) (5) (14) Charge 44 72 17 133 Disposals (8) (42) (4) (54) Business combinations 2 19 30 5 54 Other movements (1) 1 1 1 At December 31, 2011 284 422 141 847 NET AT DECEMBER 31, 2009 259 128 34 421 AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 304 134 61 499 AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 309 182 56 547 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 141 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Property, plant and equipment purchased under ﬁnance lease Net (in millions of euros) Note 2009 2010 2011 AT JANUARY 1 140 153 157 Translation adjustments 9 3 3 1 Acquisitions / Increase 42 49 60 Disposals / Decrease (1) (6) (1) Depreciation and impairment (38) (45) (39) Business combinations 2 4 6 Other movements 7 (1) (1) AT DECEMBER 31 153 157 183 NOTE 12 – ASSET IMPAIRMENT TESTS Goodwill was tested for impairment at December 31, 2011 in Group long-term growth and discount rates are based on the line with the Group procedure for verifying the value of such average of a representative sample of projections by ﬁnancial assets. Based primarily on the discounted cash ﬂows method, analysts who use these indicators to value the Group. In 2011, this procedure consists of assessing the recoverable amount of the Group used estimates produced by 11 financial analysts, each cash-generating unit (CGU) within the Group. 10 of whom were already included in the group of 12 ﬁnancial analysts called on in 2010. The change in discount rates arises The main assumptions used to value cash-generating units are from the three components used for the calculation: the risk-free as follows: rates, the risk premium and the volatility of the Cap Gemini S.A. • basis for CGU valuation: value in use share price in relation to changes in its listed market (“beta”). • number of years over which cash flows are estimated: five years, based on data taken from the budget process for the No impairment losses were recognized at December 31, ﬁrst year and from the three-year strategic plan for the next two 2011 as a result of these impairment tests. An analysis of years, with extrapolation of this data for the remaining period; the calculation’s sensitivity to a combined change in the key • long-term growth rate used to extrapolate to perpetuity ﬁnal parameters (operating margin, discount rate and long-term year estimated cash flows: 2.1% (2.3% in 2010) and 4% for growth rate) based on reasonably probable assumptions, did not Brazil; identify any probable scenario where the recoverable amount of • discount rate: 9.5% for the Group, 8.04% for North America, one of the CGUs would fall below its carrying amount. 8.14% for the United Kingdom (respectively 9.6%, 9.2% and 9.3% in 2010) and 13% for Brazil. 142 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Goodwill per cash-generating unit The cash-generating units adopted by the Group correspond to geographic areas representing the Group’s major markets and the main lines of development and strategic investment. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2011 Net Net Net Gross Impaircarrying Gross Impaircarrying Gross Impaircarrying in millions of euros value ment amount value ment amount value ment amount North America 528 (6) 522 599 (6) 593 636 (6) 630 Benelux 781 (12) 769 796 (12) 784 800 (12) 788 France 644 (1) 643 658 (1) 657 1,086 (2) 1,084 United Kingdom and Ireland 453 453 515 515 533 533 Southern Europe and Latin America 33 33 270 270 289 289 Nordic countries 130 130 158 158 162 162 Germany and Central Europe 206 (31) 175 214 (31) 183 258 (31) 227 Asia-Pacific 25 25 41 41 55 55 GOODWILL 2,800 (50) 2,750 3,251 (50) 3,201 3,819 (51) 3,768 NOTE 13 – DEFERRED TAXES Recognized deferred taxes Change in deferred tax assets Provisions for Tax loss US pensions and Other carry-forwards amortizable other postdeductible excl. the goodwill and employment temporary Total deferred in millions of euros Note United-States tax losses benefits differences tax assets AT JANUARY 1, 2009 591 115 98 59 863 Business combinations 23 23 Translation adjustments 9 1 8 3 12 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 7 (55) (4) 11 (48) Deferred tax expense recognized in equity 39 (2) 37 AT DECEMBER 31, 2009 537 115 141 94 887 Business combinations 7 1 8 Translation adjustments 9 3 8 8 4 23 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 7 (45) (9) 2 (52) Deferred tax expense recognized in equity 26 (1) 25 AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 502 123 166 100 891 Business combinations 1 1 2 Translation adjustments 9 9 5 (2) 12 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 7 (34) 76 (3) (8) 31 Deferred tax expense recognized in equity 70 14 84 AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 469 208 239 104 1,020 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 143 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Change in deferred tax liabilities Customer relationships Tax-deductible resulting Other taxable goodwill from business Amortized temporary Total deferred in millions of euros Note amortization combinations cost of bonds differences tax liabilities AT JANUARY 1, 2009 45 25 11 57 138 Business combinations 4 4 Translation adjustments 9 2 2 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 7 4 (9) (11) 5 (11) Deferred tax expense recognized 20 20 in equity AT DECEMBER 31, 2009 49 20 20 64 153 Business combinations 17 1 18 Translation adjustments 9 2 1 4 7 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 7 (5) (9) 15 1 Deferred tax expense recognized (1) (1) in equity AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 51 33 11 83 178 Business combinations 1 1 Translation adjustments 9 1 (1) Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 7 (2) (8) (1) 14 3 Deferred tax expense recognized 1 1 in equity AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 50 26 10 97 183 Deferred tax assets arising from tax loss carry-forwards a net increase of USD 10 5 million, to USD 269 million (excluding the United States) (€208 million) at December 31, 2011. This remeasurement was Recognized tax loss carry-forwards (excluding the United based on an estimate of future taxable proﬁts of the Group’s States) total €469 million at December 31, 2011. They include North American operations, using growth and proﬁtability rates tax losses of €423 million attributable to the France tax group. and a timeframe considered reasonable. These tax loss carry-forwards are recognized in the accounts based on future taxable profits estimated assuming growth Consequently, unrecognized deferred tax assets as at and proﬁtability rates and a timeframe considered reasonable. 31st December 2011, amount to USD 1,375 million (€1,063 million) comprising of: US deferred tax assets arising from amortizable goodwill and • deferred tax on all potential tax loss carried forward as at tax losses 31 st December 2011 which represents a base amount of USD The acquisition of Ernst & Young’s North American consulting 3,346 million at tax rate of 39%, business in 2000 gave rise to the amortization for tax purposes, • deferred tax on all potential future amortization charges over a period of 15 years, of the difference between the deductible for tax purpose in respect of goodwill mentioned acquisition price of the business and the tax base of the assets above, which represents a base amount of USD 867 million at and liabilities acquired. Since 2000, the annual amortization tax rate of 39%, charge was deducted from US tax proﬁts and the resulting tax • reduced by the recognized deferred ta x asset s as at loss was carried forward for a period of 20 years. 31 st December 2011, representing USD 269 million. At December 31, 2011, the cumulative amount of US tax losses, including the amortization charges referred to above, totaled USD 3,346 million (€2,586 million). These tax loss carry-forwards do not include future amortization charges deductible for tax purposes in respect of the Ernst & Young consulting business goodwill of USD 867 million (€670 million). After the utilization of USD 72 million in 2011, the value of recognized deferred tax assets was remeasured in the amount of USD 177 million (see Note 7 – Income tax expense), representing 144 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Unrecognized deferred tax assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2009 2010 2011 Tax loss carry-forwards, excluding the United States 233 318 196 US deferred tax on amortizable goodwill and tax loss carry-forwards 971 1,053 1,063 Deferred tax on other temporary differences 146 135 133 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 1,350 1,506 1,392 Expiry dates of tax loss carry-forwards (taxable base) 2009 2010 2011 At December 31 (in millions of euros) Amount % Amount % Amount % Y+1 9 11 12 Y+2 14 1 11 11 Y+3 7 5 1 Y+4 5 7 9 Y+5 10 30 1 13 1 Beyond 5 years 4,086 99 4,544 99 4,601 99 TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS (TAXABLE BASE) 4,131 100 4,608 100 4,647 100 NOTE 14 – OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2009 2010 2011 Shares in associates 16 Shares in non-consolidated companies 1 1 4 Deposits, receivables and other long-term investments 58 88 74 Derivative instruments 19 3 5 Pension plans with funding surpluses 20 21 3 Other 13 18 41 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 112 115 119 In 2009, shares in associates concerned Strategic Systems Capgemini Technologies LLC as part of the acquisition of the Solutions (SSS) Holdings Corporation Ltd. The remaining activities of Vengroff, Williams and Associates. 51.17% of the share capital of this company was purchased on June 15, 2010, enabling the full consolidation of this company Deposits and other long-term investments consist mainly of from 2010. security deposits and guarantees relating to leases and “aides à la construction” (building aid program) loans in France, as well In 2011, shares in non-consolidated companies primarily as at December 31, 2011, legal deposits guaranteeing tax and comprise shares in O2C Pro LLC (€3 million) acquired by employee-related disputes in CPM Braxis of €19 million. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 145 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 15 – ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2009 2010 2011 Accounts receivable 1,326 1,447 1,710 Provisions for doubtful accounts (30) (14) (11) Accrued income 677 821 871 Accounts and notes receivable excluding capitalized costs on projects 1,973 2,254 2,570 Capitalized costs on projects 94 117 115 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE 2,067 2,371 2,685 Total accounts receivable and accrued income net of advances from customers and billed in advance, can be analyzed as follows in number of days: At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2009 2010 2011 Accounts and notes receivable excluding capitalized costs on projects 1,973 2,254 2,570 Advances from customers and billed in advance (567) (576) (661) TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NET OF ADVANCES 1,406 1,678 1,909 FROM CUSTOMERS AND BILLED IN ADVANCE In number of days’ annual revenues (1) 60 66 70 (1) In 2010 and 2011, this ratio is adjusted to take into account the impact of entries into the scope of consolidation. Aged analysis of accounts receivable The low bad debt ratio (1% at December 31, 2011) reﬂects the fact that most invoices are only issued after the client has validated the services provided. At end-2011, past due balances totaled €482 million, representing 28.4% of accounts receivable less provisions for doubtful accounts. The breakdown is as follows: > 30 days in millions of euros < 30 days and < 90 days > 90 days Net accounts receivable 268 140 74 As a % of accounts and notes receivable, net of provisions for doubtful accounts 15.8% 8.3% 4.3% Past due balances concern accounts receivable from customers which are individually analyzed and monitored. On December 27, 2011, Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S assigned to a ﬁnancial institution, without recourse, receivables maturing on January 31, 2012 in the total amount of €25 million. As these receivables were assigned with transfer of credit risk as deﬁned by IAS 39, they were derecognized in the Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2011. Credit risk The Group’s largest client, a major British public body, does not consider that any of its clients, business sectors or contributes around 9% of Group revenues (10% in 2010 and geographic areas present a significant risk of non-collection 11% in 2009), while the second-largest client accounts for just that could materially impact the ﬁnancial position of the Group 2%. The top 10 clients collectively account for 22% of Group as a whole. revenues, and the top 30 represent 36%. The solvency of these major clients and the sheer diversity of the other smaller clients help limit credit risk. The economic environment could impact the business activities of the Group’s clients, as well as the amounts receivable from these clients. However, the Group 146 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 16 – OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2009 2010 2011 Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax 79 126 171 Prepaid expenses 106 119 154 Derivative instruments 19 7 22 12 Other 11 39 33 OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES 203 306 370 At December 31, 2011, “Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax” include research tax credit receivables in the amount of €53 million (€26 million at December 31, 2010, deducted from amounts due to employees). NOTE 17 – NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2009 2010 2011 Cash management assets 71 73 Short-term investments 2,109 1,912 1,877 Cash at bank 494 393 346 Asset/liability derivative instruments on cash items 19 1 8 10 Bank overdrafts (liability) (7) (6) (9) Cash and cash equivalents 18 2,597 2,307 2,224 Bonds (969) (1,001) (1,036) Obligations under finance leases (87) (88) (96) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities (8) (2) Other borrowings (1) (5) (1) Long-term borrowings (1,057) (1,102) (1,135) Bonds (211) (24) (422) Obligations under finance leases (42) (51) (51) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities (8) (85) (209) Other borrowings 19 (10) (44) (11) Short-term borrowings (271) (204) (693) Borrowings (1,328) (1,306) (1,828) Derivative instruments on borrowings (9) (15) NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1,269 1,063 454 Cash management assets Cash and cash equivalents In 2010, Cap Gemini S.A. invested in capitalization contracts as At December 31, 2011, cash equivalents mainly consist of money part of the active management of its cash and cash equivalents. market mutual funds (FCP and SICAV), certiﬁcates of deposit, These contracts are presented in “Cash management assets” commercial paper and term bank deposits. (see Note 1-M – Accounting policies: Net Cash and cash Derivative instruments on cash items represent a receivable equivalents) and may be cancelled by the Company at any time of €10 million at December 31, 2011, corresponding to the fair without penalty. value of hedging instruments taken out in connection with inter-company ﬁnancing transactions at Cap Gemini S.A. This receivable is classiﬁed under “Other current receivables” in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (compared to a receivable of €8 million at December 31, 2010). CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 147 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Borrowings an issue premium of 35% compared to the Company benchmark share price. The bonds bear interest at 3.5% per year. They Bonds may be converted at any time commencing April 20, 2009 and are redeemable at par on January 1, 2014 if not converted. The 2011 Bond issue terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a euro approved by the AMF on April 8, 2009 under reference number bond issue maturing on November 29, 2016 (2011 Bond issue). 09-084. Bondholders enjoy all rights from November 29, 2011. The total amount of the issue was €500 million, comprising OCEANE 2005” convertible bonds and partial redemption 5,000 bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. The bonds On June 16, 2005, Cap Gemini S.A. issued bonds convertible/ bear interest at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing to 6.50% exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini S.A. shares, in the event of a down-grading of Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating. maturing on January 1, 2012 (“OCEANE 2005”). Bondholders The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the enjoy all rights from June 24, 2005. prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under The total amount of the issue was €437 million, comprising reference number 11-546. 11,810,810 bonds with a nominal value of €37 each. The bonds The Bond issue is redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. bear interest at 1% per year. They may be converted at any time commencing June 24, 2005 and are redeemable at a Summary of the main terms and conditions of the 2011 price of €41.90 per bond, representing approximately 113.2% bond issue of their nominal unit value, on January 1, 2012 if not converted. Redemption at maturity The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the The bonds are redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. prospectus approved by the AMF on June 16, 2005 under reference number 05-564. Early redemption at the Company’s option The bonds are redeemable at the Company’s option under In November 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. redeemed a total of cer tain conditions set out in the issue prospectus and 2,350,000 bonds in a number of transactions for an amount of particularly concerning the minimum redemption price. €99 million, at an average price of €42.18 per bond. Redeemed bonds were cancelled pursuant to the provisions set-out in the Early redemption at the option of bondholders prospectus. At December 31, 2011, 9,460,810 OCEANE 2005 Bondholders may request the early redemption of all or bonds remained outstanding, representing 80.1% of the number part of their bonds in the event of a change in control of the of bonds initially issued. The remaining bonds were redeemed Company, provided this change in control is accompanied by a in full on January 2, 2012. downgrading of the Company’s ﬁnancial rating. Early repayment At the initiative of a majority of bondholders, particularly in the event of a failure to pay sums due or to comply with other obligations set out in the documentation (beyond any “grace” periods, if applicable), cross default (in excess of a minimum threshold), liquidation, dissolution or sale of all of the Company’s assets. An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating would not constitute an early redemption event. Pari passu status Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will rank pari passu with all other bonds issued by the Company. OCEANE 2009” convertible bonds On April 8, 2009, Cap Gemini S.A. issued bonds convertible/ exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini S.A. shares, maturing on January 1, 2014 (“OCEANE 2009”). Bondholders enjoy all rights from April 20, 2009. The total amount of the issue was €575 million, comprising 16,911,765 bonds with a nominal value of €34 each, resulting in 148 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Impact of bonds on the ﬁnancial statements 2009 2010 2011 “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE 2011 2003” 2005” 2009” 2005” 2009” 2005” 2009” Bond At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note bonds bonds bonds bonds bonds bonds bonds Issue Equity component 52 40 64 40 64 40 64 n/a Debt component at amortized cost 192 464 524 480 545 400 561 497 Effective interest rate 5.1% 4.8% 6.8% 4.8% 6.8% 4.8% 6.8% 5.5% Interest expense recognized in the Income Statement for the period 6 14 21 24 21 35 22 36 2 Nominal interest rate 2.5% 1% 3.5% 1% 3.5% 1% 3.5% 5.3% Nominal interest expense (coupon) 7 4 14 4 20 4 20 2 Fair value of bonds 2009 2010 2011 “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE “OCEANE 2011 2003” 2005” 2009” 2005” 2009” 2005” 2009” Bond At December 31 (in millions of euros) bonds bonds bonds bonds bonds bonds bonds Issue Fair value 202 481 580 488 582 400 578 511 Market rate n/a 2.3% 3.3% 2.2% 3.1% n/a 3.2% 4.7% Obligations under ﬁnance leases Earliest date Latest expiry Effective December 31, in millions of euros of leases date interest rate 2011 3-month Euribor Buildings (Universite Capgemini Les Fontaines) October 2002 July 2014 26 +0.75% Computer equipment July 2003 February 2017 5.97% 118 Other fixed assets January 2004 June 2015 3 OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES 147 Draw-downs on banks and similar facilities that may be increased to 40% (35% previously) if Cap Gemini At December 31, 2011, draw-downs on banks and similar S.A.’s rating falls. facilities primarily consist of commercial paper issued during An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating the period by Cap Gemini S.A. in the amount of €90 million and would have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. CPM Braxis S.A. bank loans in the amount of €109 million. The other main terms and conditions of the credit facility, in particular with respect to certain financial ratios, remain Syndicated credit facility obtained by Cap Gemini S.A. unchanged. (see Note 27 – Off balance sheet commitments). On November 14, 2005, Cap Gemini S.A. signed a €500 million multi-currency credit facility with a bank syndicate maturing on At December 31, 2011, this credit facility has not yet been drawn. November 14, 2011 at the latest. On January 13, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. refinanced its multicurrency credit facility with a syndicate of 18 banks for the same amount as previously ﬁnanced (€500 million), maturing on January 13, 2016. The initial margin on this new credit facility is 0.90%, compared to 0.40% previously. This margin may be adjusted according to the credit rating of Cap Gemini S.A. The facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn amounts equal to 35% of the margin (i.e. 0.315%), compared to 30% of the margin previously (i.e. 0.12%), CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 149 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Effective interest rate (EIR) In 2011, the effective interest rate on the Group’s average rates. The stable percentage of ﬁxed-rate borrowings is due to outstanding borrowings was 6.5% (5.6% in 2010). At December 31, the new bond issue performed in 2011, reﬁnancing the OCEANE 2011, 92% of the Group’s borrowings are at fixed rates 2005 bonds maturing at the beginning of January 2012. (compared to 91% at end-2010) and the remainder is at ﬂoating At December 31, 2011 Euro US dollar Pound sterling Other Total EIR Amount EIR Amount EIR Amount Amount Amount % M€ % M€ % M€ M€ M€ “OCEANE 2005” bonds 4.8% 400 400 “OCEANE 2009” bonds 6.8% 561 561 2011 Bond issue 5.5% 497 497 Draw-downs on bank 1.8% 90 121 211 and similar facilities Obligations under finance leases 4.1% 49 5.9% 16 6.2% 61 21 147 Other borrowings n/a 1 11 12 BORROWINGS 1,597 17 61 153 1,828 Net cash and cash equivalents by maturity at redemption value The amounts indicated below correspond to the undiscounted interest rates (1%, 3.5% and 5.25%, respectively) and on the value of future contractual cash ﬂows. Future cash ﬂows relating assumption that the bonds would be redeemed in full at maturity. to the “OCEANE 2005” and “OCEANE 2009” bonds and the The contractual cash ﬂows associated with “Obligations under 2011 bond issue were estimated based on contractual nominal ﬁnance leases” represent contractual repayments of the liability. At December 31, 2011 Contractual Carrying Contractual Less than Beyond in millions of euros maturity amount cash flows 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Cash management assets 2012 73 73 73 Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2,223 2,223 2,223 n/a n/a n/a Bank overdrafts 2012 (9) (9) (9) n/a n/a n/a Derivative instruments on cash items 2012 10 10 10 n/a n/a n/a Cash and cash equivalents 2,224 2,224 2,224 n/a n/a n/a “OCEANE 2005” bonds 2012 (400) (400) (400) “OCEANE 2009” bonds 2014 (561) (635) (20) (20) (595) 2011 Bond issue 2016 (497) (631) (2) (26) (603) Obligations under finance leases 2012 à 2017 (147) (153) (56) (45) (52) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities 2012 à 2014 (211) (211) (209) (1) (1) Other borrowings 2012 à 2014 (12) (12) (11) (1) Borrowings (1,828) (2,042) (698) (93) (1,251) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a (15) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 454 255 1,599 (93) (1,251) n/a 150 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 At December 31, 2010 Contractual Carrying Contractual Less than Beyond in millions of euros maturity amount cash flows 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Cash management assets 2011 71 71 71 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2,305 2,305 2,305 n/a n/a n/a Bank overdrafts 2011 (6) (6) (6) n/a n/a n/a Derivative instruments on cash items 2011 8 8 8 n/a n/a n/a Cash and cash equivalents 2,307 2,307 2,307 n/a n/a n/a “OCEANE 2005” bonds 2012 (480) (504) (4) (500) “OCEANE 2009” bonds 2014 (545) (656) (20) (20) (616) Obligations under finance leases 2011 à 2015 (139) (149) (55) (40) (54) Draw-downs on bank and similar 2011 à 2012 (93) (93) (85) (8) facilities Other borrowings 2011 à 2015 (49) (49) (44) (4) (1) Borrowings (1,306) (1,451) (208) (572) (671) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a (9) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a NET CASH AND 1,063 927 2,170 (572) (671) n/a CASH EQUIVALENTS At December 31, 2009 Contractual Carrying Contractual Less than Beyond in millions of euros maturity amount cash flows 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2,603 2,603 2,603 n/a n/a n/a Bank overdrafts 2010 (7) (7) (7) n/a n/a n/a Derivative instruments 2010 1 1 1 n/a n/a n/a on cash items Cash and cash equivalents 2,597 2,597 2,597 n/a n/a n/a “OCEANE 2003” bonds 2010 (192) (192) (192) “OCEANE 2005” bonds 2012 (464) (508) (4) (4) (500) “OCEANE 2009” bonds 2014 (524) (670) (14) (20) (636) Obligations under finance leases 2010 à 2014 (129) (129) (43) (37) (49) Other borrowings 2010 à 2015 (19) (19) (18) (1) Borrowings (1,328) (1,518) (271) (61) (1,185) (1) Derivative instruments n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a on borrowings NET CASH AND CASH 1,269 1,079 2,326 (61) (1,185) (1) EQUIVALENTS CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 151 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Net cash and cash equivalents Net cash and cash equivalents and liquidity risk and credit risk The financial liabilities whose repayability could expose the Financial assets which could expose the Group to a credit or Group to liquidity risk are mainly the two convertible bonds counterparty risk mainly consists of ﬁnancial investments: in (“OCEANE 2005” and “OCEANE 2009”) and the new 2011 accordance with Group policy, cash balances are not invested bond issue. However, the OCEANE 2005 bond was deﬁnitively in equity-linked products, but in (i) negotiable debt securities redeemed on January 2, 2012. (certificates of deposit and commercial paper), (ii) deposits and accounts, (iii) capitalization contracts or (iv) short-term To manage the liquidity risk that may arise on repayability of money market mutual funds, subject to minimum credit rating ﬁnancial liabilities, the Group has implemented a conservative and diversiﬁcation rules. ﬁnancing policy mainly based on: At December 31, 2011, shor t-term investments totaled • prudent use of debt leveraging, coupled with limited use of €1,877 million and comprise mainly (i) money market mutual any clauses that could lead to early repayment of borrowings; funds meeting the criteria deﬁned by the AMF for classiﬁcation • maintaining a high level of available funds at all times in the “monetary category”; and (ii) negotiable debt securities (€2,297 million at December 31, 2011), which could be maturing within three months or immediately available, issued increased by a multi-currency syndicated line of credit of by highly rated companies or ﬁnancial institutions (minimum €500 million (undrawn to date); rating of A2/P2 or equivalent). Consequently, these short-term • actively managing the due dates of ﬁnancial liabilities in order investments do not expose the Group to any material credit risk. to limit the concentration of borrowings maturities; • using diverse sources of financing, allowing the Group to reduce its reliance on certain categories of lenders. NOTE 18 – CASH FLOWS At December 31, 2011, cash and cash equivalents totaled Net cash from (used in) operating activities €2,224 million (see Note 17 – Net cash and cash equivalents), In 2011, net cash from operating activities totaled €349 million down €83 million on December 31, 2010 (€2,307 million). (compared to €503 million in 2010) and resulted from: Excluding the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on cash • cash flows from operations before net finance costs and and cash equivalents (€12 million), this decrease is €71 million. income tax in the amount of €743 million, Cash ﬂow impacts are shown in the Consolidated Statement of • payment of income taxes in the amount of €104 million, Cash Flows. • an increase in working capital requirements, generating a negative cash impact of €290 million. 152 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Changes in working capital requirements (WCR) and the reconciliation with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as follows: Statement Working capital requirement components of Cash (Consolidated Statement of Financial Position) Items with no cash impact Flows items Reclassification and Impact Foreign changes December December Non-WCR of WCR Income exchange in Group in millions of euros Note 31, 2010 31, 2011 Net impact items (1) items impact impact structure (2) Amount Accounts and notes receivable 15 2,371 2,685 (314) (314) 14 100 (200) Advances from customers and billed in advance 15 (576) (661) 85 85 (9) (11) 65 Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from (229) (229) 5 89 (135) customers and amounts billed in advance Accounts and notes payable (Accounts 23 (957) (944) (13) (13) (1) (67) (81) payable) Change in accounts (13) (13) (1) (67) (81) and notes payable Other non-current assets 14 115 119 (4) (14) (18) (1) 0 (3) (22) Other current receivables 16 306 370 (64) 4 (60) 1 (5) 36 (28) Other non-current liabilities 22 (279) (322) 43 (30) 13 (1) 2 (13) 1 Accounts and notes payable (excluding 23 (1,348) (1,396) 48 48 5 (55) (2) accounts payable) Other current payables 24 (80) (137) 57 (14) 43 (3) 4 (67) (23) Change in other 80 (54) 26 (4) 6 (102) (74) receivables/payables CHANGE IN OPERATING (216) (4) 10 (80) (290) WORKING CAPITAL (1) Consolidated Statement of Financial Position items explaining cash flows relating to investing and financing activities and the payment of the income tax expense are not included in working capital requirements. (2) The Reclassifications heading mainly includes changes relating to the current and non-current reclassification of certain accounts and notes receivable and payable, changes in the position of certain tax and employee-related receivables and payables in assets or liabilities. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 153 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Net cash from (used in) investing activities Net cash from (used in) ﬁnancing activities The main components of net cash used in investing activities of Net cash inflows as a result of financing activities totaled €699 million (compared to €433 million in 2010) reﬂect: €279 million (compared to an outflow €445 million in 2010) • cash outﬂows of €554 million on business combinations, net and mainly comprised: of cash and cash equivalents acquired, including primarily the • payment of the 2010 dividend of €154 million; acquisition of Prosodie for €366 million (acquisition price of • a cash inflow of €495 million following the new bond issue €376 million, cash and cash equivalents acquired of €6 million performed in November 2011; and an earn-out of €4 million), CS consulting (€44 million), AIVE • a cash outflow of €99 million for the partial redemption Group (€40 million) and Artésys (€27 million). Acquisitionof OCEANE 2005 bonds in November 2011; related costs disbursed in the year totaled €7 million; • a cash inﬂow of €90 million in respect of issues of commercial • cash outﬂows of €28 million relating to acquisitions of intangible paper; assets, net of disposals, mainly involving software for customer • a cash outflow of €54 million in respect of repayments projects or for internal use and internally generated intangible of obligations under ﬁnance leases; assets (see Note 10 – Goodwill and intangible assets); • the receipt of €34 million from CPM Braxis non-controlling • cash outflows of €127 million relating to acquisitions of interests following their subscription of the December 2011 property, plant and equipment, net of disposals, mainly share capital issue in the amount of BRL 80 million; involving computer purchases for projects or relating to the • interest paid net of interest received of €30 million. partial renewal of IT installations and the renovation, extension and refurbishment of ofﬁce space (see Note 11 – Property, plant and equipment). NOTE 19 – DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Currency risk management Currency risk and hedging of other non-current liabilities During the ﬁscal year, the Group hedged part of its exposure Currency risk management policy to currency risk on the call-put option held respectively by Capgemini Group and the other shareholders of CPM Braxis Currency risk and hedging operating transactions over the share capital not yet held by the Group. The growing use of offshore production centers located in India, but also in Poland and Latin America, exposes the Group The sensitivity of translation reserves to currency risk is to currency risk with respect to some of its production costs. analyzed in Note 9 Equity. The Group has therefore implemented a policy aimed at minimizing and managing these currency risks, mainly due to Exposure to currency risk internal ﬂows with India. The hedging policy is deﬁned by the Amounts hedged at December 31, 2011 and detailed below Group based on periodic reports and implemented primarily mainly concern Cap Gemini S.A. for inter-company ﬁnancing through forward foreign exchange contracts. transactions, and the subsidiary Capgemini India Private Ltd. for These transaction are recognized in accordance with accounting sub-contracting activities performed for other Group regions. rules applicable to cash ﬂow hedges. As Capgemini India Private Ltd. invoices its services to Group ordering entities in US dollar, pound sterling and euro, the Currency risk and hedging ﬁnancial transactions currency risk in respect of production incurred in Indian rupee The Group is exposed to the risk of exchange rate ﬂuctuations is reﬂected by exposure to these three currencies. in respect of: • inter-company financing transactions, mainly within Cap Gemini S.A.: as inter-company lending and borrowing is systematically hedged (in particular using forward foreign exchange contracts), the impact of changes in exchange rates on the Income Statement is negligible. • fees paid to Cap Gemini S.A. by subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro. As the majority of these flows are hedged, the impact of changes in exchange rates on the Income Statement is not signiﬁcant. 154 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 December 31, 2011 Australian Canadian in millions of euros Euro US dollar Pound sterling dollar Swedish krona dollar Other (1) Total assets 101 388 161 13 72 2 11 Total liabilities (70) (84) (383) (1) (47) (127) (4) Exposure to currency risks 31 304 (222) 12 25 (125) 7 before hedging Amounts hedged (27) (212) 225 (11) (23) 126 (1) Exposure to currency risks 4 92 3 1 2 1 6 after hedging (1) Other currencies essentially include the Polish zloty, Swiss franc, Singapore dollar and Norwegian krona. At December 31, 2011, the euro-equivalent value of forward foreign exchange contracts breaks down by transaction type and maturity as follows: More than 6 months Less than and less than More than in millions of euros 6 months 12 months 12 months Total Operating transactions 225 185 162 572 Financial transactions 574 5 17 596 Transactions on other non-current liabilities 105 105 TOTAL 799 190 284 1,273 Hedges contracted in respect of operating transactions in India Hedges contracted in respect of ﬁnancial transactions primarily mainly comprise forward contracts to sell foreign currency concern Cap Gemini S.A. At December 31, 2011, hedged maturing between 2012 and 2013 with an aggregate equivalent inter-company loans totaled €570 million (€440 million at value of €505 million (€532 million at December 31, 2010). December 31, 2010) and comprised loans denominated in The hedges were chieﬂ y taken out in respect of transactions pound sterling, Australian dollar, Swedish krona, US dollar and in US dollars ($376 million), euros (€149 million) and pounds Canadian dollar. sterling (£55 million). The maturities of the hedges range from 2 months to nearly 2 years. Hedges contracted in respect of other non-current liabilities The Group has also entered into forward contracts to sell foreign mainly comprise forward foreign exchange contracts with a currency (mainly pounds sterling, US dollar and Swedish krona) nominal value of BRL 253 million (€105 million), maturing in in Poland, France and the United States. These contracts October 2013. mature between 2012 and 2016 and have an equivalent value of €43 million. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 155 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Fair value of hedging derivatives At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2009 2010 2011 Other non-current assets 14 3 5 Other current receivables 16 7 22 12 Other non-current liabilities 22 (3) (2) (15) Other current payables 24 (4) (10) (51) Fair value of hedging derivatives 3 15 (54) relating to: operating transactions 3 16 (49) financial transactions (1) (5) Hedging derivative counterparty recognized in equity 2 11 (44) at December 31 (on operating transactions) Change in the period in hedging derivatives recognized 29 9 (55) in equity o/w amounts released to operating profit in respect of transactions 19 (15) 3 performed o/w fair value of hedging derivatives relating to future transactions 10 24 (58) The fair value of hedging derivatives and the hedging derivative Fair value of interest rate derivatives counterparty recognized in equity primarily concern hedges of An interest rate swap contract maturing in July 2014, covering inter-company ﬂows between India and other Group entities. 50% of a ﬁnance lease taken out by S.A.R.L. Immobiliere Les The change in these items between December 31, 2010 and Fontaines (owner of Capgemini University) was entered into by December 31, 2011 is attributable to the depreciation of the this latter in 2003 for a residual notional amount of €26 million. Indian rupee against the euro, US dollar and pound sterling. Under the terms of the swap, S.A.R.L. Immobiliere Les Fontaines pays a ﬁxed rate of 3.51% and receives 3-month Euribor. Interest rate risk management Counterparty risk management Interest rate risk management policy The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk should be analyzed in In addition, in line with its policies for managing currency and light of its cash position: at December 31, 2011, the Group had interest rate risks as described above, the Group also enters €2,296 million in cash and cash equivalents, mainly invested at into hedging agreements with leading financial institutions. ﬂoating rates (or failing this at ﬁxed rates for periods of less than Accordingly, counterparty risk can be deemed not material. or equal to 3 months), and €1,837 million in gross indebtedness At December 31, 2011, the Group’s main counterparties in principally at ﬁxed rates (92%) (see Note 17 – Net cash and cash respect of managing currency and interest rate risk are Barclays, equivalents). The high proportion of ﬁxed rate borrowings is due BNP Paribas, CA CIB, Citibank, Itau, HSBC, Natixis, Santander to the weight of bond issues in gross indebtedness. and Société Générale. Exposure to Interest rate risk: sensitivity analysis Based on average levels of cash and cash equivalents and borrowings in 2011, a 100-basis point rise in interest rates would have a positive impact of around €17 million on the Group’s net finance costs (€17 million in 2010 and 2009). Conversely, a 100-basis point fall in interest rates would have an estimated €17 million negative impact on the Group’s net ﬁnance costs for 2011 (€17 million in 2010 and 2009). 156 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 20 – PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Breakdown of provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts Change in the obligation, plan assets and the expense recognized in the Income Statement in millions of euros Note 2009 2010 2011 Present value of the obligation at January 1 1,616 2,112 2,548 Business combinations 8 Service cost 30 39 43 Past service cost 14 6 3 Interest cost 113 131 136 Effect of curtailments and settlements (4) (2) Contributions paid by employees 5 6 6 Benefits paid to employees (48) (76) (71) Changes in actuarial gains and losses (1) 249 198 280 Translation adjustments 133 133 72 Other movements 4 1 2 Present value of the obligation at December 31 2,112 2,548 3,027 Fair value of plan assets at January 1 (1,090) (1,417) (1,713) Expected return on plan assets (71) (103) (111) Effect of curtailments and settlements 3 2 Contributions paid by employees (5) (6) (6) Benefits paid to employees 41 68 66 Contributions paid (100) (84) (93) Changes in actuarial gains and losses (1) (90) (71) 13 Translation adjustments (100) (97) (45) Other movements (5) (5) (9) Fair value of plan assets at December 31 (1,417) (1,713) (1,898) Total net funding shortfall 695 835 1,129 Unrecognized past service costs (36) (34) (30) Net provision in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 659 801 1,099 at December 31 Funding surplus recognized in assets 14 (21) (3) Provisions recognized in liabilities 680 804 1,099 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement Service cost 4 (30) (39) (43) Past service cost 4 (5) (8) (8) Interest cost 6 (113) (131) (136) Expected return on plan assets 6 71 103 111 Effect of curtailments and settlements 5 1 TOTAL EXPENSE FOR THE PERIOD (76) (75) (76) (1) The change in actuarial gains and losses is recorded in “Income and expense recognized in equity”. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 157 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Breakdown of the change by main beneﬁciary country United in millions of euros Kingdom Canada Other Total At December 31, 2009 Present value of obligations under funded plans 1,525 305 130 1,960 Fair value of plan assets (1,024) (289) (104) (1,417) Funding shortfall under funded plans 501 16 26 543 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 297 56 8 361 Funding shortfall under unfunded plans 37 115 152 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) (5) 18 13 Total net funding shortfall 501 53 141 695 Unrecognized past service costs (36) (36) Net provision in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 501 53 105 659 Funding surplus recognized in assets (5) (16) (21) Provisions recognized in liabilities 501 58 121 680 At December 31, 2010 Present value of obligations under funded plans 1,827 368 167 2,362 Fair value of plan assets (1,251) (341) (121) (1,713) Funding shortfall under funded plans 576 27 46 649 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 398 75 13 486 Funding shortfall under unfunded plans 58 128 186 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 6 25 31 Total net funding shortfall 576 85 174 835 Unrecognized past service costs (34) (34) Net provision in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 576 85 140 801 Funding surplus recognized in assets (3) (3) Provisions recognized in liabilities 576 85 143 804 At December 31, 2011 Present value of obligations under funded plans 2,187 425 180 2,792 Fair value of plan assets (1,428) (345) (125) (1,898) Funding shortfall under funded plans 759 80 55 894 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 619 141 20 780 Funding shortfall under unfunded plans 85 150 235 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 27 28 55 Total net funding shortfall 759 165 205 1,129 Unrecognized past service costs (30) (30) Net provision in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 759 165 175 1,099 Funding surplus recognized in assets Provisions recognized in liabilities 759 165 175 1,099 (1) Actuarial gains and losses are recorded in “Income and expense recognized in equity. The countries included in the “Other” column are the United States, Sweden, Norway, France, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Italy and India. These countries represent 16% of net provisions in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 158 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Principal actuarial assumptions Discount rate and salary inﬂation rate 2009 2010 2011 % United Kingdom Canada Other Discount rate 3.3 8.3 2.4 8.4 4.7 5.2 2.9 8.8 Salary inflation rate 1.0 7.0 1.0 7.0 3.9 3.3 1.5 10.0 In 2011, the benchmark indexes used to calculate discount rates were identical to those used in previous years. Plan assets and the expected and actual return on plan assets Expected return Actual return United United in millions of euros Amount % Kingdom Canada Other Kingdom Canada Other At December 31, 2009 Shares 841 59 8.0 8.5 6.3 8.3 17.6 26.6 11.6 12.2 (2.5) 32.2 Bonds 509 36 5.9 4.0 2.1 4.7 7.0 9.2 7.1 (2.5) 23.3 Real estate assets 14 1 6.5 3.9 (6.1) (2.5) 9.8 Cash and cash equivalents 31 2 3.8 1.0 3.9 0.8 (1.5) (1.1) 0.2 Other 22 2 (6.6) 12.2 (12.3) 9.8 TOTAL 1,417 100 At December 31, 2010 Shares 1,015 59 8.0 8.5 3.0 8.7 12.8 16.3 8.6 8.8 0.9 13.5 Bonds 595 35 5.5 4.0 1.5 4.5 9.4 11.0 9.0 9.2 0.9 8.5 Real estate assets 3 3.0 3.9 0.9 8.5 Cash and cash equivalents 71 4 3.8 1.0 0.8 3.0 1.3 (1.4) (1.3) 0.1 8.5 Other 29 2 3.8 5.9 0.9 24.3 TOTAL 1,713 100 At December 31, 2011 Shares 1,068 56 8.0 7.5 4.3 10.1 (5.7) (4.8) (4.1) (4.0) 1.5 3.3 Bonds 752 40 4.7 4.0 2.0 4.6 15.3 15.8 10.8 1.5 6.2 Real estate assets 3 6.5 3.0 4.0 1.5 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents 44 2 3.8 1.0 0.5 4.0 0.5 (1.2) (0.8) Other 31 2 (2.3) 9.4 0.9 9.4 TOTAL 1,898 100 In the United Kingdom, expected rates of returns are validated In Canada, expected rates of return are determined in by experts. For shares, the expected rate of return is based on a accordance with a model based on economic data observable study of a selection of leading companies in the United Kingdom in ﬁnancial markets (assumptions on the proﬁtability of shares which takes account of the maturity of obligations hedged and and bonds, validated by expert analyses). forecast expected returns based on past trends. The expected rate of return on bonds is determined based on the discount rate used for the obligation, that is, the expected rate of return on corporate bonds rated AA. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 159 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Employees covered by pension plans 2009 2010 2011 United At December 31 Total Total Kingdom Canada Other Total Current employees – 44,626 54,284 1,160 2,697 57,581 61,438 accruing pensionable service Former and current employees – 12,101 12,014 8,607 225 3,047 11,879 not accruing pensionable service Retirees 2,288 2,538 1,843 639 338 2,820 TOTAL 59,015 68,836 11,610 3,561 60,966 76,137 The increase in employees in 2011 is chieﬂy attributable to the The net impact of the interest cost (discounting of the obligation) expansion of Group operations in India. At December 31, 2011, a and the expected return on plan assets was a ﬁnancial expense total of 35,932 employees were eligible for these pension plans of €25 million (mainly concerning the United Kingdom for in India, versus 30,621 employees at December 31, 2010. €15 million). The decrease in this financial expense in 2011 compared to 2010 (€3 million) was due to: • the increase in the fair value of plan assets as a result of the Analysis of the change in provisions for rise in contributions paid by the Group, as well as the positive pensions and other post-employment impact of the slight increase in the expected average rate of beneﬁts return for the main pension regime in the United Kingdom. The overall impact was a decrease in the net ﬁnancial expense Change in regulatory context: pension reform of €8 million, in France • the favorable impact tied to the fall in interest rates in the The pension reforms adopted in France and resulting in the majority of regions was nonetheless more than offset by the lengthening of the period of activity, did not have a material increase in the net present value of obligations, particularly in impact on the amount of retirement termination payments. the United Kingdom, resulting in an increase in the net ﬁnancial expense of €5 million. Impact on the Income Statement: change in the service cost and the interest cost Impact on equity: change in actuarial gains and In 2011, the expense recognized in operating margin in respect losses of the service cost and the past service cost is €51 million and Actuarial gains and losses reflect increases or decreases mainly concerns France (€16 million), Canada (€14 million) and in the present value of the obligation or the fair value of the the United Kingdom (€12 million). The increase in the service related plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses include (i) the cost in 2011 compared to 2010 (€4 million) was mainly due to impact of changes in actuarial assumptions and (ii) experience the decrease in discount rates between 2009 and 2010 in the adjustments, reﬂecting differences between projected actuarial majority of regions and particularly Canada. assumptions and what has actually occurred. 2009 2010 2011 United At December 31 Total Total Kingdom Canada Other Total Impact of changes in actuarial assumptions 257 186 240 61 5 306 Experience adjustments, o/w: (98) (59) (39) 22 4 (13) Adjustment on liabilities (1) (8) 12 (29) 2 1 (26) Adjustment on assets (2) (90) (71) (10) 20 3 13 IMPACT ON INCOME AND EXPENSE 159 127 201 83 9 293 RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY (1) +: increase in liabilities / -: decrease in liabilities (2) -: increase in assets / +: decrease in assets 160 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Impact of changes in actuarial assumptions Other impacts on the statement of ﬁnancial position: Changes in actuarial assumptions (essentially the discount rate contributions, beneﬁts and translation adjustments and the expected rate of return on plan assets) generated an Contributions paid by the Group totaled €93 million in 2011, actuarial loss in 2011 of €293 million. This loss is attributable including €61 million in the United Kingdom and €24 million in to changes in actuarial assumptions between 2010 and 2011, Canada. particularly in the United Kingdom and Canada where discount The beneﬁts paid to employees of €71 million mainly involved rates dropped by 83 and 45 basis points, respectively. the United Kingdom (€30 million) and Canada (€26 million). The €27 million increase in provisions for pensions for translation Experience adjustments adjustments, was due to the appreciation, in particular, of the Experience adjustments result from differences between pound sterling (€23 million) and the Canadian dollar (€3 million) projected actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred during the period. during the ﬁscal year. The impact of experiences adjustments on the value of plan assets was an actuarial loss of €13 million, In the United Kingdom, the deﬁned beneﬁt section of the main primarily due to an actuarial loss of €20 million in Canada (as Capgemini UK Plc. pension plan terminated on March 31, 2008 actual rates of return were lower than expected rates of return) for the large majority of beneficiaries. In exchange, these partially offset by an actuarial gain of €10 million in the UK (as individuals were given the opportunity to join the defined actual rates of return were higher than expected rates of return). contribution section of this plan. In accordance with the recommendations put forward by the UK Pensions Regulator, Capgemini UK Plc. has committed to fund the shortfall identiﬁed at the last three-year valuation up to July 2018. Sensitivity analysis Analysis of the sensitivity of the present value of the obligation in the United Kingdom The impact of a change of 50 basis points in the discount rate and the inﬂation rate on the present value of the obligation in the United Kingdom, which represents 72% of the total Group obligation at December 31, 2011, is presented below: Present value in millions of euros Impact of obligation Present value of the obligation at December 31, 2011 2,187 Increase of 50 basis points in the discount rate (204) 1,983 Decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate 236 2,423 Increase of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 194 2,381 Decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate (200) 1,987 Analysis of the sensitivity of healthcare assistance Consolidated Income Statement (service cost and interest costs cost). The impact of this 1% change would range from negative Healthcare assistance costs exclusively concern Canada. For €13 million to positive €16 million in the Consolidated Statement 2009, 2010 and 2011, a 1% change in healthcare assistance of Financial Position at December 31, 2011. costs would have an impact of plus or minus €2 million in the CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 161 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 21 – CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT PROVISIONS in millions of euros 2009 2010 2011 AT JANUARY 1 65 49 66 Charge 24 42 34 Reversals (utilization of provisions) (10) (8) (13) Reversals (surplus provisions) (37) (19) (31) Other 7 2 7 AT DECEMBER 31 49 66 63 At December 31, 2011, current provisions (€48 million) and nonAdditions to provisions mainly concern outsourcing and current provisions (€15 million) mainly concern risks relating to technology services projects and tax and labor disputes. projects and contracts amounting to €46 million (€46 million at Reversals for the period mainly reﬂect the favorable outcome December 31, 2010) and risks relating to tax and labor disputes of customer disputes. amounting to €17 million (€20 million at December 31, 2010). NOTE 22 – OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2009 2010 2011 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 66 68 61 Derivative instruments 19 3 2 15 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 2 6 189 219 Other 20 20 27 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 95 279 322 At December 31, 2011, Liabilities related to acquisitions of At December 31, 2011, the “Other” line includes €11 million consolidated companies consist of earn-outs granted at the in respect of a CPM Braxis social security liability. In 2011, time of certain acquisitions and put options granted to minority a definitive agreement for the payment of this liability over shareholders in CPM Braxis in the amount of BRL 479 million 15 years was signed with the Brazilian tax authorities, as part of (€198 million at December 31, 2011). The change in put options the “REFIS” voluntary program for the settlement and recovery is due to the inclusion of price adjustments, the impact of of tax liabilities launched in April 2000. the unwinding of the discount on the initial put option and the recognition of an additional put option in the amount of €34 million (see Note 2 – Changes in Group structure). 162 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 23 – ACCOUNTS AND NOTES PAYABLE At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2009 2010 2011 Accounts payable 812 957 944 Accrued taxes other than on income 327 405 378 Personnel costs 853 924 1,002 Other 34 19 16 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES PAYABLE 2,026 2,305 2,340 NOTE 24 – OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2009 2010 2011 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 10 21 18 Derivative instruments 19 4 10 51 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 2 5 6 14 Other 24 43 54 OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES 43 80 137 At December 31, 2011, the “Other” line includes €29 million in provided at the acquisition date by a warranty clause included respect of employee–related disputes in the Brazilian subsidiary, in the acquisition contract. CPM Braxis S.A. These disputes are covered for the part not NOTE 25 – OPERATING SEGMENTS As indicated in Note 1-R – Accounting policies: Operating segments, segment information is provided for the geographic areas presented below (Section I – Segment reporting by geographic area) and complemented in Section II by information on revenues and operating margin for each of the Group’s four businesses. Segment reporting by geographic area The Group has operations in the following eight geographic areas: Geographic area Country North America Canada, United States France France, Morocco United Kingdom and Ireland Ireland, United Kingdom Benelux Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands Southern Europe and Latin America Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Guatemala, Italy, Mexico, Portugal, Spain Nordic countries Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden Germany and Central Europe Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Switzerland Asia-Pacific Australia, China, India, Philippines, Singapore, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 163 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Analysis of the Income Statement by geographic area United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and Fiscal year 2011 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot alloEliminain millions of euros America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific cated (1) tions Total REVENUES external (2) 1,805 2,138 1,945 1,266 1,000 635 626 278 9,693 inter-geographic area 78 162 125 52 41 26 132 537 (1,153) TOTAL REVENUES 1,883 2,300 2,070 1,318 1,041 661 758 815 (1,153) 9,693 Operating margin (2) 159 187 139 94 30 46 43 83 (68) 713 % of revenues 8.8 8.7 7.1 7.4 3.0 7.2 6.9 n/a 7.4 OPERATING PROFIT 153 153 124 62 11 42 36 82 (68) 595 Net finance costs (65) Other financial income 64 Other financial expense (104) Income tax expense (101) Share of profit of associates PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 389 Non-controlling interests 15 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS 404 OF THE COMPANY (1) Items that have not been allocated correspond to headquarter expenses. (2) Non-Group revenues generated under sub-contracting arrangements are recorded in the ordering region. As operating margin is calculated based on these revenues, the margin for the Asia-Pacific area is not representative of its activities, which mostly consist of internal subcontracting carried out in India. United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and Fiscal year 2010 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot alloEliminain millions of euros America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific cated (1) tions Total REVENUES external (2) 1,665 1,931 1,912 1,314 599 543 534 199 8,697 inter-geographic area 58 117 83 43 42 21 117 456 (937) TOTAL REVENUES 1,723 2,048 1,995 1,357 641 564 651 655 (937) 8,697 (2) Operating margin 86 127 150 127 19 36 48 61 (67) 587 % of revenues 5.2 6.6 7.9 9.7 3.1 6.6 9.0 n/a 6.8 OPERATING PROFIT 76 106 132 106 6 30 40 60 (67) 489 Net finance costs (54) Other financial income 22 Other financial expense (55) Income tax expense (124) Share of profit of associates PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 278 Non-controlling interests 2 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS 280 OF THE COMPANY (1) Items that have not been allocated correspond to headquarter expenses. (2) Non-Group revenues generated under sub-contracting arrangements are recorded in the ordering region. As operating margin is calculated based on these revenues, the margin for the Asia-Pacific area is not representative of its activities, which mostly consist of internal subcontracting carried out in India. 164 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and Fiscal year 2009 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot alloEliminain millions of euros America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific cated (1) tions Total REVENUES external (2) 1,590 1,949 1,852 1,397 434 488 531 130 8,371 inter-geographic area 39 98 64 33 33 12 93 358 (730) TOTAL REVENUES 1,629 2,047 1,916 1,430 467 500 624 488 (730) 8,371 (2) Operating margin 77 121 165 122 10 35 51 69 (55) 595 % of revenues 4.9 6.2 8.9 8.7 2.3 7.3 9.7 n/a 7.1 OPERATING PROFIT 55 65 137 30 (9) 21 27 63 (56) 333 Net finance costs (43) Other financial income 75 Other financial expense (125) Income tax expense (61) Share of profit of associates (1) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 178 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS 178 OF THE COMPANY (1) Items that have not been allocated correspond to headquarter expenses. (2) Non-Group revenues generated under sub-contracting arrangements are recorded in the ordering region. As operating margin is calculated based on these revenues, the margin for the Asia-Pacific area is not representative of its activities, which mostly consist of internal subcontracting carried out in India. Analysis of depreciation, amortization and other expenses with no cash impact included in the operating margin United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and Fiscal year 2011 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot alloin millions of euros America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific cated (1) Total Depreciation and amortization expense (33) (29) (30) (21) (22) (12) (15) (26) (188) Net charge to provisions (1) 3 7 (11) 2 (3) (5) 5 (2) TOTAL (30) (22) (41) (19) (25) (12) (20) (21) (190) (1) This item includes net movements in provisions for doubtful accounts and current and non-current provisions. United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and Fiscal year 2010 North and Ireand Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot alloin millions of euros America France land Benelux America countries Europe Pacific cated (1) Total Depreciation and amortization expense (35) (27) (28) (29) (11) (11) (13) (20) (174) Net charge to provisions (1) 10 (7) (11) 6 (1) (1) (5) (3) (12) TOTAL (25) (34) (39) (23) (12) (12) (18) (23) (186) (1) This item includes net movements in provisions for doubtful accounts and current and non-current provisions. United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and Fiscal year 2009 North and Ireand Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot alloin millions of euros America France land Benelux America countries Europe Pacific cated (1) Total Depreciation and amortization expense (36) (26) (26) (28) (6) (6) (18) (18) (164) Net charge to provisions (1) (6) (4) (4) (1) 1 (1) 3 (12) TOTAL (42) (26) (30) (32) (7) (5) (19) (15) (176) (1) This item includes net movements in provisions for doubtful accounts and current and non-current provisions. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 165 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Analysis of assets and liabilities by geographic area The location of assets corresponds to the location of the Group’s clients, except for outsourcing centers such as in India. United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and At December 31, 2011 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot Eliminain millions of euros America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated tions Total Assets by geographic area: external 1,154 2,081 1,184 1,146 857 380 464 314 51 7,631 inter-geographic area 38 101 52 23 24 11 36 106 35 (426) TOTAL ASSETS 1,192 2,182 1,236 1,169 881 391 500 420 86 (426) 7,631 BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA Deferred tax assets 1,020 Current income tax receivable 55 Cash management assets 73 Cash and cash equivalents 2,223 Derivative instruments 12 TOTAL ASSETS 11,014 Liabilities by geographic area: external 607 1,053 1,388 336 554 207 218 186 7 4,556 inter-geographic area 78 84 71 47 18 19 28 42 32 (419) TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 685 1,137 1,459 383 572 226 246 228 39 (419) 4,556 BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA Total equity 4,283 Deferred tax liabilities 183 Current income tax payable 89 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 1,837 Derivative instruments 66 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 11,014 166 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and At December 31, 2010 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot Eliminain millions of euros America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated tions Total Assets by geographic area: external 1,035 1,560 990 1,195 805 340 400 274 35 6,634 inter-geographic area 41 69 47 22 15 7 26 77 22 (326) TOTAL ASSETS 1,076 1,629 1,037 1,217 820 347 426 351 57 (326) 6,634 BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA Deferred tax assets 891 Current income tax receivable 40 Cash management assets 71 Cash and cash equivalents 2,305 Derivative instruments 27 TOTAL ASSETS 9,968 Liabilities by geographic area: external 497 968 1,198 340 526 179 205 174 11 4,098 inter-geographic area 81 72 43 45 17 21 20 21 6 (326) TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 578 1,040 1,241 385 543 200 225 195 17 (326) 4,098 BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA Total equity 4,307 Deferred tax liabilities 178 Current income tax payable 61 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 1,312 Derivative instruments 12 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,968 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 167 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and At December 31, 2009 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot Eliminain millions of euros America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated tions Total Assets by geographic area: external 931 1,493 899 1,203 242 278 372 203 38 5,659 inter-geographic area 37 61 29 21 10 7 24 47 10 (246) TOTAL ASSETS 968 1,554 928 1,224 252 285 396 250 48 (246) 5,659 BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA Deferred tax assets 887 Current income tax receivable 54 Cash and cash equivalents 2,603 Derivative instruments 10 TOTAL ASSETS 9,213 Liabilities by geographic area: external 472 931 1,087 358 163 148 167 121 6 3,453 inter-geographic area 54 53 30 36 13 18 20 14 8 (246) TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 526 984 1,117 394 176 166 187 135 14 (246) 3,453 BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA Total equity 4,213 Deferred tax liabilities 153 Current income tax payable 52 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 1,335 Derivative instruments 7 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,213 Analysis of acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2009 2010 2011 North America 36 31 18 France 37 22 33 United Kingdom and Ireland 23 50 46 Benelux 26 13 13 Southern Europe and Latin America 8 14 29 Nordic countries 3 14 20 Germany and Central Europe 11 15 17 Asia-Pacific 17 37 42 ACQUISITIONS OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, 161 196 218 PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Total acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is different from the ﬁgure provided in the Statement of Cash Flows (€158 million), which excludes acquisitions of assets held under ﬁnance leases (€60 million). 168 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Segment reporting by business The Group’s services are organized into four businesses: • “Consulting Services” helps to enhance the performance of organizations based on in-depth knowledge of client industries and processes; • “Technology Services” plans, designs and develops IT systems and applications; • “Local Professional Services” provides assistance and support to internal IT teams within client companies; • “Outsourcing Services” manages all or part of a company’s IT or business process needs. Breakdown of revenues by business 2009 2010 2011 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % Consulting Services 558 7 511 6 515 5 Technology Services 3,345 40 3,610 42 4,020 41 Local Professional Services 1,419 17 1,418 16 1,518 16 Outsourcing Services 3,049 36 3,158 36 3,640 38 REVENUES 8,371 100 8,697 100 9,693 100 Breakdown of operating margin by business 2009 2010 2011 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % Consulting Services 64 11.4 56 10.9 62 12.0 Technology Services 230 6.9 242 6.7 273 6.8 Local Professional Services 138 9.7 131 9.2 166 10.9 Outsourcing Services 218 7.2 225 7.1 280 7.7 Not allocated (55) (67) (68) OPERATING MARGIN 595 7.1 587 6.8 713 7.4 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 169 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 26 – NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Average number of employees by geographic area 2009 2010 2011 Employees % Employees % Employees % North America 8,032 9 8,265 8 9,039 8 France 20,496 23 19,828 21 20,614 18 United Kingdom and Ireland 8,042 9 8,167 8 8,700 8 Benelux 11,795 13 10,877 11 10,508 9 Southern Europe and Latin America 7,939 9 9,863 10 15,505 14 Nordic countries 3,894 4 3,850 4 4,292 4 Germany and Central Europe 7,649 8 7,853 8 8,375 7 Asia-Pacific 22,230 25 28,696 30 37,150 32 Not allocated 161 172 171 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 90,238 100 97,571 100 114,354 100 Number of employees at December 31 by geographic area 2009 2010 2011 At December 31 Employees % Employees % Employees % North America 7,950 9 8,667 8 9,505 8 France 19,865 22 20,107 18 21,571 18 United Kingdom and Ireland 7,844 9 8,515 8 8,977 7 Benelux 11,163 12 10,782 10 10,391 9 Southern Europe and Latin America 8,114 9 14,853 14 16,499 14 Nordic countries 3,681 4 4,012 4 4,538 4 Germany and Central Europe 7,724 9 7,928 7 8,962 7 Asia-Pacific 24,008 26 33,655 31 39,097 33 Not allocated 167 179 167 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 90,516 100 108,698 100 119,707 100 NOTE 27 – OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Off-balance sheet commitments relating In addition, certain clients enjoy: to Group operating activities • limited ﬁnancial guarantees issued by the Group and totaling € 8 56 million at December 31, 201 1 (€6 31 million and Commitments given on client contracts €266 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively), The Group has provided per formance and /or financial • bank guarantees borne by the Group and totaling €81 million at guarantees for a number of major contracts. These include December 31, 2011 (€91 million and €57 million at December 31, the contracts signed with HM Revenue & Customs, Schneider 2010 and 2009, respectively). Electric Industries, Euroclear, the Metropolitan Police, Ontario Power Generation Inc., Environment Agency, Renault S.A. and The Secretary of State for Work & Pensions. 170 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 Commitments given on non-cancellable leases Vehicles and other non-cancellable in millions of euros Computer equipment Offices leases Total Y+1 14 171 63 248 Y+2 5 135 45 185 Y+3 2 104 27 133 Y+4 1 76 10 87 Y+5 54 54 Y+6 and beyond 111 111 December 31, 2011 22 651 145 818 December 31, 2010 32 633 140 805 December 31, 2009 36 687 142 865 Lease payments recognized in the Income Statement in At December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 the Group complied with 2011 totaled €307 million (€267 million and €262 million at these ﬁnancial ratios. December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively). The facility agreement includes covenants restricting the Company’s ability to carry out certain operations. These Other commitments given covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include Other commitments given total €121 million at December 31, restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, 2011 (€50 million and €53 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively) asset sales, mergers and similar transactions. Cap Gemini S.A. and comprise: also committed to standard obligations, including an agreement • bank guarantees given to the tax authorities in connection with to maintain pari passu status. tax disputes in France, India and Spain, • ﬁrm purchase commitments relating to goods or services in Borrowings secured by assets India and France. Some borrowings are secured by assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At December 31, Commitments received on client contracts 201 1 , these related to finance leases for an amount of Pursuant to a contract signed in 2010, Capgemini Group received €132 million. a limited ﬁnancial guarantee of €67.5 million from the client. Contingent liabilities Off-balance sheet commitments relating to Group ﬁnancing D uring 201 1 and in previous fisc al years, some G roup companies underwent tax audits leading in some cases to tax Bond issues reassessments. A number of these reassessments have been With regard to the OCEANE 2005 and 2009 bonds and the challenged and some litigation proceedings were in progress at new 2011 bond issue detailed in Note 17 – Net cash and cash the period end. In general, no provisions have been set aside for equivalents, Cap Gemini S.A. has committed to standard these disputes in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. obligations and particularly to maintain pari passu status with all other negotiable bonds that may be issued by the Company. Syndicated credit facility obtained by Cap Gemini S.A. and not drawn to date Cap Gemini S.A. has agreed to comply with the following ﬁnancial ratios (as deﬁned in IFRS) in respect of the credit facility disclosed in Note 17 – Net cash and cash equivalents: • the net debt to consolidated equity ratio must be less than 1 at all times, • the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which net finance costs are covered by consolidated operating margin) must be equal to or greater than 3 at December 31 and June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then ended). CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 171 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 28 – RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS Associates • entities controlled or jointly controlled by a member of key Associates are equity–accounted companies over which the management personnel, or over which he/she has signiﬁcant Group exercises signiﬁcant inﬂuence. At December 31, 2011, inﬂuence or holds signiﬁcant voting rights. the Group does not equity account for any companies, following the buy-out of the residual 51.17% share capital of SSS Holdings Moreover, since the acquisition of CPM Braxis on October 6, Corporation Ltd. in 2010. Transactions with these companies in 2010, it is wor th noting that Bradesco S. A ., a minorit y 2009 were carried out on an arm’s length basis, and volumes shareholder, is also the main client of CPM Braxis accounting were not material. for 45% of its revenues. Other related-parties Group management compensation In 2011, no material transactions were carried out with: The table below provides a breakdown of compensation due • shareholders holding significant voting rights in the share in respect of 2011 to members of Group management which capital of Cap Gemini S.A., includes the Group operating management structure present • members of management, including Directors and non-voting at each year-end (20 members in 2011 and 21 members in Directors, 2010) – and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, as well as attendance fees payable to non-salaried Directors and non-voting Directors. in millions of euros 2009 2010 2011 Short-term benefits excluding employer payroll taxes (1) 21,422 18,306 16,253 O/w: attendance fees to salaried Directors (2) O/w: attendance fees to non-salaried Directors and non-voting Directors (3) 534 699 722 Short-term benefits: employer payroll taxes 4,133 3,300 3,640 Post-employment benefits (4) 909 674 623 Share-based payment (5) 1,741 2,183 2,456 (1) Includes gross wages and salaries, bonuses, profit-sharing, directors’ fees and benefits in kind. (2) Note that salaried Directors (Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin) waived receipt of their attendance fees in 2009, 2010 and 2011. (3) 14 in 2009, 13 in 2010 and 13 in 2011. (4) Including mainly statutory retirement termination payments. (5) Representing the annual expense relating to the granting of stock options and performance shares. NOTE 29 – SUBSEQUENT EVENTS The remaining 9,460,810 OCEANE 2005 bonds were redeemed At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of in full on January 2, 2012 for an amount of €400 million Directors will recommend a dividend payout to Cap Gemini S.A. (including accrued interest not yet due at December 31, 2011). shareholders of €1 per share in respect of 2011, compared to a dividend of €1 per share in respect of 2010 and €0.80 per share in respect of 2009. 172 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 30 – LIST OF THE MAIN CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES BY COUNTRY FC= Full consolidation EM = Equity Method PC= Proportionate consolidation % Consolidation Country Consolidated Company at December 31, 2011 interest method GERMANY Capgemini Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services GmbH 100.00% FC Sogeti Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Cap Gemini Telecom Media & Networks Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Sogeti High Tech GmbH 100.00% FC IBX Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Portum AG 100.00% FC I&S IT-Beratung & Service GmbH 100.00% FC CS Consulting GmbH 100.00% FC ARGENTINA Capgemini Argentina SA 100.00% FC AUSTRALIA Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC AUSTRIA Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 100.00% FC BELGIUM Capgemini Belgium N.V./S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Belgium S.A. 100.00% FC BRAZIL Capgemini do Brasil, Serviços de Consultoria e Informática Ltda. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services Brasil – Assessoria Empresarial Ltda. 100.00% FC Consultoria de Gestao Gemini Ltda. 100.00% FC CPM Braxis S.A. 61.10% FC CPM Braxis ERP Tecnologia da Informação Ltda. 61.10% FC CPM Braxis Outsourcing S.A. 61.10% FC CANADA Capgemini Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Inergi LP 100.00% FC New Horizons System Solutions LP 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Gestion Cap Gemini Quebec Inc. 100.00% FC Société en Commandite Cap Gemini Quebec 100.00% FC CHILE Capgemini Business Services Chile Ltda. 100.00% FC CHINA Capgemini (China) Co. Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Hong Kong Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services (China) Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services (Asia) Ltd. 100.00% FC Strategic Systems Solutions Hangzhou (China) Ltd. 100.00% FC Praxis Technology Co.Ltd. 100.00% FC DENMARK Capgemini Danmark AS 100.00% FC Sogeti Danmark AS 100.00% FC IBX Danmark AS 100.00% FC UNITED Capgemini Middle East FZ LLC 100.00% FC ARAB EMIRATES Thesys Technologies Middle East FZE 100.00% FC Thesys Technologies LLC 49.00% FC SPAIN Capgemini España, S.L. 100.00% FC Sogeti España, S.L. 100.00% FC Prosodie Ibérica 100.00% FC CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 173 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 FC= Full consolidation EM = Equity Method PC= Proportionate consolidation % Consolidation Country Consolidated Company at December 31, 2011 interest method UNITED STATES Capgemini America Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini US LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini North America Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technologies LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini Government Solutions LLC 100.00% FC Sogeti USA LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini Energy LP 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services International Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services USA Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services Europe Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services Japan Inc. 100.00% FC IBX North America Inc. 100.00% FC CPM Braxis USA Corp. 61.10% FC Capgemini Business Services USA LLC 100.00% FC FINLAND Capgemini Finland Oy 100.00% FC Sogeti Finland Oy 100.00% FC IBX Finland Oy 100.00% FC FRANCE Cap Gemini S.A. Parent Company FC Capgemini France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Service S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Université S.A.S. 100.00% FC Immobilière Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. 100.00% FC SCI Paris Etoile 100.00% FC Capgemini Consulting S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini OS Electric S.A.S. 100.00% FC Plaisir Informatique S.A.R.L. 100.00% FC Cap Sogeti 2005 S.A.S. 100.00% FC IBX France S.A.R.L. 100.00% FC Sogeti S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti Corporate Services SAS 100.00% FC Sogeti High Tech S.A.S. 100.00% FC Artésys SA 100.00% FC Prosodie France S.A. 100.00% FC Internet FR 100.00% FC GUATEMALA Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 100.00% FC HUNGARY Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft 100.00% FC INDIA Capgemini Business Services (India) Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini India Private Ltd. 100.00% FC IRELAND Sogeti Ireland Ltd. 100.00% FC ITALY Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 100.00% FC AIVE SPA 100.00% FC AIVEBS SPA 100.00% FC AIVE BST SPA 100.00% FC ENTERPRIME CONSULTING SPA 81.00% FC ENTERPRIME FINANCE SRL 51.00% FC REALTA' INFORMATCA SRL 51.00% FC 174 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 6. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6 FC= Full consolidation EM = Equity Method PC= Proportionate consolidation % Consolidation Country Consolidated Company at December 31, 2011 interest method LUXEMBOURG Sogeti Luxembourg S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti PSF S.A. 100.00% FC Capgemini Reinsurance International 100.00% FC Capgemini Reinsurance Company S.A. 100.00% FC MALAYSIA Capgemini Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100.00% FC MOROCCO Capgemini Technology Services Maroc S.A. 100.00% FC MEXICO Capgemini Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 100.00% FC NORWAY Capgemini Norge AS 100.00% FC Sogeti Norge AS 100.00% FC IBX Norge AS 100.00% FC NETHERLANDS Capgemini Interim Management B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Educational Services B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini N.V. 100.00% FC Sogeti Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Retail Solutions B.V. 100.00% FC Independent Interim v.o.f 50.00% PC PHILIPPINES Capgemini Phillipines SBOS 100.00% FC POLAND Capgemini Polska Sp z.o.o. 100.00% FC PORTUGAL Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informatica S.A. 100.00% FC CZECH REPUBLIC Capgemini Czech Republic S.r.o. 100.00% FC ROMANIA Capgemini Services Romania s.r.l. 100.00% FC IBX Software Development s.r.l. 100.00% FC UNITED KINGDOM Capgemini UK Plc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services UK Ltd. 100.00% FC Strategic Systems Solutions Ltd. 100.00% FC Sogeti UK Ltd. 100.00% FC IBX UK Ltd. 100.00% FC SINGAPORE Capgemini Singapore Pte Ltd. 100.00% FC SLOVAKIA Capgemini Slovensko, S.r.o. 100.00% FC SWEDEN Capgemini AB 100.00% FC Capgemini Sverige AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige AB 100.00% FC IBX Group AB 100.00% FC Skvader Systems AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige Mitt AB 100.00% FC SWITZERLAND Capgemini Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC Capgemini SD&M Schweiz AG 100.00% FC Sogeti Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC VIETNAM IACP Asia 100.00% FC CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 175 176 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 177 7.1 Balance sheet 178 7.2 Income statement 180 7.3 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 181 7.4 Subsidiaries and investments 196 7.5 Five-year ﬁnancial summary 197 7.6 Statutory auditors’ reports 198 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 177 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet 7 7.1 Balance sheet at December 31, 2010 and 2011 ASSETS Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2011 Depreciation, amortization in thousands of euros Net Gross and provisions Net Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 2,069 35,568 (33,499) 2,069 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 8,183,052 14,175,052 (5,958,679) 8,216,373 Receivable from controlled entities (1) 333,904 465,091 465,091 Securities held for portfolio management purposes 2 2 2 Other financial fixed assets (1) 6,047 10,420 (126) 10,294 Non-current assets 8,525,298 14,686,357 (5,992,304) 8,694,053 Advances and downpayments Accounts and notes receivable (1) 382 71 (71) Other receivables (1) 13,757 57,841 57,841 Receivable from related and associated companies (1) 194,566 559,496 559,496 Miscellaneous receivables (1) 13 216 216 Marketable securities 891,202 1,290,086 (16,198) 1,273,888 Cash and cash equivalents 75,875 338,829 338,829 Current assets 1,175,795 2,246,539 (16,269) 2,230,270 (1) Prepaid expenses 31 1,708 1,708 Deferred charges 8,344 10,319 10,319 Bond redemption premium 8,875 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 4 6 6 Other assets 17,254 12,033 12,033 TOTAL ASSETS 9,718,347 16,944,929 (6,008,573) 10,936,355 (1) of which due within one year 242,972 746,318 746,318 178 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet 7 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES in thousands of euros Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2011 Share capital (fully paid-up) 1,246,163 1,246,163 Additional paid-in capital 5,717,403 5,717,403 Legal reserve 123,342 124,616 Other reserves 561,853 561,853 Retained earnings 405,692 387,513 Profit for the year 136,889 171,563 Tax-driven provisions 6,067 9,199 Shareholders' equity 8,197,409 8,218,310 Provisions for contingencies and losses 4 6 Convertible bonds (2) 1,069,873 971,408 Eurobond issue 500,000 Bank loans and borrowings (2) 100,422 454,140 Payable to controlled entities (2) 247,500 376,692 Borrowings (2) 1,417,795 2,302,240 (2) Accounts and notes payable 4,233 4,003 Tax and social security liabilities (2) 2,885 2,764 Payable to related and associated companies (2) 95,572 408,362 Other payables (2) 301 425 Prepaid income (2) Unrealized foreign exchange gains 148 245 Other liabilities 103,139 415,799 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,718,347 10,936,355 (2) Of which due within one year 450,913 1,642,794 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 179 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement 7 7.2 Income statement for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011 in thousands of euros 2010 2011 Royalties 200,518 227,181 Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions, expense transfers 6,353 Other income 1,049 7,560 Total operating income 201,567 241,094 Other purchases and external charges 30,116 34,858 Taxes, duties and other levies 2,399 4,1 1 8 Depreciation and amortization 2,311 2,367 Charges to provisions 1,437 1,820 Other expenses 534 7,779 Total operating expenses 36,797 50,942 OPERATING PROFIT 164,770 190,152 (1) Investment income 53,358 48,749 Income from other marketable securities and amounts receivable on non-current assets (1) 4,493 7,662 Other interest income (1) 7,988 13,125 Reversals of provisions 6,190 19,587 Foreign exchange gains 2,413 5,112 Net proceeds on disposals of marketable securities 2,812 4,230 Total financial income 77,254 98,465 Depreciation, amortization and provisions relating to financial items 88,022 63,106 Interest and similar expenses (2) 26,750 31,609 Foreign exchange losses 3,665 5,354 Total financial expenses 118,437 100,069 NET FINANCE INCOME (EXPENSE) (41,183) (1,604) RECURRING PROFIT BEFORE TAX 123,587 188,548 Non-recurring income from operations 368 93 Non-recurring income from capital transactions 2,286 1,603 Reversals of provisions and expense transfers Total non-recurring income 2,654 1,696 Non-recurring expenses on operations 1,897 8,1 1 7 Non-recurring expenses on capital transactions 1,326 4,470 Exceptional depreciation, amortization and charges 1,869 3,132 Total non-recurring expenses 5,092 15,719 NET NON-RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) (2,438) (14,023) INCOME TAX EXPENSE 15,740 (2,962) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 136,889 171,563 (1) of which income concerning related companies 59,574 63,014 (2) of which interest concerning related companies 2,006 3,952 180 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7.3 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 I – ACCOUNTING POLICIES The annual ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December commercial paper is recognized in accrued income or prepaid 31, 2011 are prepared and presented in accordance with French income, respectively. accounting rules and principles (as set out in the 1999 French Capitalization contracts subscribed by the Company are also chart of accounts), including the new accounting rules on assets included in marketable securities. introduced by the French Accounting Regulatory Committee (Comité de Réglementation Comptable) and applicable since January 1, 2005. The annual financial statements are also Foreign currency transactions prepared in accordance with the principles of prudence and Receivables, payables and c ash and c ash equivalents accruals, and assuming that the Company is able to continue denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the as a going concern. year-end exchange rate or at the hedging rate. Any differences Items in the ﬁnancial statements are generally measured using resulting from the translation of foreign currency receivables the historical cost method. and payables at these rates are included in the balance sheet under “Unrealized foreign exchange gains/ losses”. The Company’s main accounting policies are described below: A provision for foreign exchange losses is set aside to cover any unrealized losses. Intangible assets Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted Receivables and payables ownership basis, as well as software developed for internal use Receivables are measured at their nominal amount, and a which has a positive, lasting and quantiﬁable effect on future provision for impairment set aside when their net realizable results, are capitalized and amortized over a maximum period value falls below their net carrying amount. Unbilled payables of three years. At year-end, the value of computer software and are recognized excluding VAT. user rights is compared to their value in use for the Company. Bond redemption premium Financial ﬁxed assets The bond redemption premium is amortized on a straight-line The gross value of equity interests and other long-term basis over the term of the debt. investments carried in the balance sheet comprises their acquisition cost, including any transaction fees. A provision for impairment is set aside when the value in use falls below the Tax consolidation acquisition cost. The value in use is calculated based on either The Company and French subsidiaries at least 95% owned by the present value of discounted future cash ﬂows adjusted for the Group have elected to ﬁle consolidated tax returns pursuant net debt, or in certain cases on the Company’s share in net to Article 223 A of the French General Tax Code. Any tax savings assets. realized by the Group primarily on account of losses incurred by consolidated entities are treated as a gain for the Company in the period in which they arise. Treasury shares Treasury shares held by Cap Gemini S.A. as part of the liquidity agreement are recorded on the balance sheet within longFinancial instruments term investments at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Currency and interest rate positions are taken using ﬁnancial Realizable value is the average market price for Cap Gemini instruments presenting minimum counterparty risk listed S.A. shares in December. Other treasury shares held for other on organized markets or over-the-counter. Gains and losses objectives of the share buyback program are recorded in listed on financial instruments used in hedging transactions are shares. recognized to match the gains and losses arising on the hedged items. The fair value of financial instruments, which is not recognized in the accounts of the Company, in accordance with Marketable securities French accounting principles, is estimated based on market Marketable securities are shown on the balance sheet at the prices or pricing data provided by banks. lower of cost and net realizable value. The realizable value of listed securities is based on the average share price in December. The realizable value of unlisted securities is based on their net asset value. At year-end, accrued interest receivable or interest received in advance on certiﬁcates of deposit and CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 181 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 II – NOTES TO THE CAP GEMINI S.A. BALANCE SHEET AND INCOME STATEMENT 1. Non-current assets Gross value Gross value in thousands of euros (January 1) Increases Decreases (December 31) Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 35,568 35,568 Sub-total 35,568 35,568 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 Sub-total 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 14,147,695 51,720 (24,363) 14,175,052 Receivable from controlled entities 333,904 212,351 (81,164) 465,091 Securities held for portfolio management purposes 2 2 Other long-term investments 6,130 153,671 (149,381) 10,420 Sub-total 14,487,731 417,742 (254,908) 14,650,565 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 14,523,523 417,742 (254,908) 14,686,357 Equity interests • partial repayment of the loan granted to a Dutch subsidiary to Equity interests comprise shares in the Company’s subsidiaries. help fund the acquisition of Getronics Pinkroccade Business The main changes during the period were due to: Application Services BV (BAS BV) in the amount of €28,500 • capital increases in Italy in the amount of €30,000 thousand, thousand. in Austria in the amount of €10,000 thousand, in Switzerland in the amount of €6,551 thousand and in Luxembourg in the Other long-term investments amount of €5,000 thousand pursuant to the creation of a This account comprises the treasury shares held under the subsidiary. liquidity agreement. This agreement relates to the share • the contribution in kind of shares in Capgemini Telecom buyback program approved by the Combined Shareholders’ Media Défense to Capgemini France at a gross carrying Meeting on May 26, 2011. Accordingly, a total of 4,522,181 shares amount of €170,630 thousand, provided in the amount of were acquired and 4,293,681 shares were sold between €24,363 thousand, representing a net carrying amount of January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2011. Cap Gemini S.A. held €146,266 thousand. 403,500 treasury shares at December 31, 2011 (175,000 at December 31, 2010), valued at €10,420 thousand. Receivable from controlled entities Amounts receivable from controlled entities consist of loans granted by the Company to subsidiaries primarily in the United States (€148,624 thousand), France (€130,210 thousand) and the Netherlands (€114,500 thousand). The main changes in this heading reﬂect: • advances on capitalization of €103,742 thousand granted to a French subsidiary pursuant to the CPM Braxis share capital increase and of €12,212 thousand granted to a Singapore subsidiary. • a loan of €40,271 thousand granted to an Italian subsidiary and its repayment during the year in the amount of €30,000 thousand. • a loan of €30,957 thousand granted to a French subsidiary, repaid in the amount of €4,489 thousand during the ﬁscal year. 182 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 2. Depreciation, amortization and provisions for non-current assets Depreciation, Depreciation, amortization amortization and provisions Changes in and provisions in thousands of euros (January 1) Additions Reversals scope (December 31) Intangible assets Amortization of trademarks, patents 33,499 33,499 and similar rights Financial fixed assets Provisions for equity interests 5,964,643 37,900 (19,500) (24,363) 5,958,679 TOTAL DEPRECIATION, 5,998,142 37,900 (19,500) (24,363) 5,992,178 AMORTIZATION AND PROVISIONS In 2011, the charge to provisions for equity interests concerns Changes in scope of €24,363 thousand concern the contribution in an Austrian subsidiary in the amount of €19,909 thousand, a kind of shares in Capgemini Telecom Media Défense to Capgemini French subsidiary in the amount of €9,148 thousand and a Swiss France at a gross carrying amount of €170,630 thousand, subsidiary in the amount of €8,843 thousand. provided in the amount of €24,363 thousand, representing a net carrying amount of €146,266 thousand. The provision reversal of €19,500 thousand concerns an American subsidiary in the amount of €11,000 thousand and a Polish subsidiary in the amount of €8,500 thousand. 3. Marketable securities Marketable securities can be analyzed as follows at December 31, 2011: in thousands of euros Net asset value Nominal value Carrying amount Listed securities Money market funds (SICAV) 470,654 470,654 470,654 Investment funds (FCP) 408,974 408,974 408,974 Treasury shares 45,915 62,114 45,915 Unlisted securities Certificates of deposit 60,000 60,000 60,000 Term deposits 215,000 215,000 215,000 Other marketable securities Capitalization contracts 73,345 73,345 73,345 TOTAL 1,273,888 1,290,087 1,273,888 Other marketable securities: two capitalization fund contracts were subscribed in July and August 2010 with leading insurance companies in Europe for €20,000 thousand and €50,000 thousand, respectively. Capitalized interest at December 31, 2011 on these two contracts totaled €3,345 thousand. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 183 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 4. Maturity of receivables at year-end in thousands of euros Gross amount One year or less More than one year Non-current assets Receivable from controlled entities 465,091 117,877 347,214 Other financial fixed assets 10,420 10,420 Current assets Accounts and notes receivable 71 71 Income tax receivable 56,472 56,472 Vat receivable 1,369 1,369 Receivable from related companies 559,496 559,496 Miscellaneous receivables 216 216 Prepaid expenses 1,708 397 1,311 TOTAL 1,094,843 746,318 348,525 5. Deferred charges Amount at Amount at in thousands of euros January 1 Increase Amortization December 31 Issuance fees on syndicated credit facility, 8,344 6,353 (4,378) 10,319 OCEANE bonds and 2011 Bond issue (1) TOTAL 8,344 6,353 (4,378) 10,319 (1) Issuance fees on the syndicated credit facility, OCEANE bonds and 2011 Bond are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the debt. On January 13, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. refinanced its multiOn November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a euro bond currency credit facility with a syndicate of 18 banks for the issue maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoy all same amount as previously ﬁnanced (€500 million), maturing rights from November 29, 2011 (2011 Bond issue). The total on January 13, 2016. Negotiation fees in respect of this new amount of the issue was €500 million, comprising 5,000 bonds syndicated credit facility totaled €3,104 thousand. with a nominal value of €100,000 each. The bond issue is redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. Issuance fees totaled €3,249 thousand. 6. Share capital and additional paid-in capital Additional in thousands of euros Number of shares Share capital paid-in capital At December 31, 2010 (par value of €8) 155,770,362 1,246,163 5,717,403 + Cash capital increase via the exercise of stock options At December 31, 2011 (par value of €8) 155,770,362 1,246,163 5,717,403 184 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 7. Stock option plans At the May 12, 2005 Combined Shareholders’ Meetings, the authorization to grant stock options to certain Group employees Board of Directors or Executive Board was given a 38-month on one or several occasions. The main features of this plan in force at December 31, 2011 are set out in the table below: 2005 Plan Summary (plan no 6) Date of Combined Shareholders' Meeting May 12, 2005 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of options 6,000,000 Date options first granted under the plan October 1, 2005 Deadline for exercising stock options after their grant date (based on progressive tranches): 5 years 10% after 1 year; +20% after 2 years; +30% after 3 years; +40% after 4 years, up to 100%) Strike price as a % of the average share price over the 20 stock market trading days 100% preceding the grant date Strike price (per share and in euros) of the various stock option grants: low 40.50 high 55.00 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of outstanding options at December 31, 2010 3,482,500 Number of new stock options granted during the year Plan expired (1) Number of options forfeited or cancelled in 2011 1,767,000 Number of options exercised in 2011 (2) Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of outstanding options at December 31, 2011 1,715,500 (3) Residual weighted average life (in years) 0.77 (1) Last stock options granted on June 1, 2008 at a price of €40.50. (2) No options were granted in fiscal year 2011 (3) Representing 144,000 shares at a price of €55, 1,413,000 shares at €44 and 158,500 shares at €40.50. The Group has no contractual or constructive obligations to shares published by Euronext, option holders would be entitled, purchase or settle the options in cash. In the event of a notice of if they so wish, to exercise all of their remaining unexercised authorization of a takeover bid for some or all of the Company’s options immediately. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 185 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 8. Performance share plan The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of April 17, 2008 and presence conditions within the Group. On March 5, 2009 and April 30, 2009 authorized the Board of Directors to grant shares then on September 15, 2010, the Board of Directors approved to a certain number of Group employees, on one or several the terms and conditions and the list of beneﬁciaries of the ﬁrst occasions and within a maximum period of 12 months and and second plans, respectively. The main terms and conditions 18 months, respectively, subject to certain performance and of these plans are summarized in the table below: Of which Of which corporate corporate Summary 2009 Plan officers 2010 Plan officers Date of Combined Shareholders' Meeting April 17, 2008 April 30, 2009 Total number of shares to be granted 1% of the share capital on the 1% of the share capital on the date of the Board of Directors’ date of the Board of Directors' decision, i.e. a maximum of decision, i.e. a maximum of 1,458,860 shares 1,557,703 shares Total number of shares granted 1,148,250 (1) 1,555,000 (3) Date of the Board of Directors' decision March 5, 2009 October 1, 2010 Performance assessment dates At the end of the first and At the end of the first and second years following the second years following the grant date grant date Vesting period Two years as from the grant Two years as from the grant date (France) or four years date (France) or four years as from the grant date (other as from the grant date (other countries) countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the Two years, or five years in the Two years, or five years in the vesting date (France only) event of departure from the event of departure from the Group during the two years Group during the two years following the vesting date following the vesting date Number of shares subject to performance and (5) presence conditions granted during the year Number of options forfeited or canceled during 534,125 25,000 94,000 the year Number of shares definitively allocated at 200,250 25,000 December 31, 2011 Number of shares at December 31, 2011 that may be definitively allocated under this plan in 311,625 (2) 1,458,000 (4) respect of shares previously granted, subject to performance and presence conditions Share price at the grant date (in euros) 23.30 37.16 Main market conditions at the grant date: Volatility 42.7% 42.8% Risk-free interest rate 1.40% 1.67% Expected dividend rate 3% 3% Other conditions: Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value “ Monte Carlo for performance of shares shares with external Monte Carlo for performance conditions and shares and Black & Scholes Black & Scholes for bonus for bonus shares shares or shares granted with internal performance conditions” Range of fair values in euros: Bonus shares (per share and in euros) €20.70 €21.90 €32.32 €32.96 Performance shares (per share and in euros) €17.53 n/a €16.51 €17.53 €21.54 €21.97 (1) Of which 64,750 shares granted without performance conditions (5.6% of the total) pursuant to the relevant resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). (2) Balance on the “foreign” plan that may be allocated on March 5, 2013, subject to conditions of presence. (3) Of which 124,000 shares granted without performance conditions (8% of the total) pursuant to the relevant resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). (4) Of which 118,500, shares granted without performance conditions. (5) No performance shares were granted in 2011. 186 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 Performance conditions and measurement of the • the number of shares that will ultimately vest: 2009 Plan will be equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated The exact number of shares granted to beneﬁciaries at the end if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is at least of the vesting period will be equal to the maximum number of equal to 90% of the basket; shares initially granted, multiplied by a percentage (from 0% to will be equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated 100%) corresponding to the chosen performance measurement if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is equal to criteria. The performance of the Cap Gemini share, measured 100% of the basket; over the ﬁrst two years, compared to the average performance will vary on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and of a basket of ten securities of listed companies, measured over between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a the same period and representative of the Group’s business predeﬁned schedule, where the performance of the Cap Gemini sector in at least five countries in which the Group is firmly S.A. share is between 90% and 100% of the basket in the ﬁrst established, will ultimately condition the vesting of the shares. case and 100% and 110% of the basket in the second case; will be equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated The deﬁnitive allocation depends on the relative performance if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is of the Cap Gemini share in relation to the basket of comparable higher than or equal to 110% of the basket. securities: In each period, the number of shares that ultimately Under these conditions, if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. vested: share is in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, only • was equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated 60% of the initial allocation will be granted compared to 80% if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share was equal to under the ﬁrst plan. 90% of the basket; The external performance condition accounts for 70% of the • varied on a straight-line basis between 60% and 100% of the grant calculation. initial allocation, based on a predeﬁned schedule, where the performance of the Cap Gemini share was between 90% and Internal performance condition: 110% of the basket; The internal performance condition is based on the progression • was equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated in the 2011 audited and published operating margin of Capgemini if the performance of the Cap Gemini share was higher than or Group compared with the 2010 operating margin at constant equal to 110% of the basket. Group structure and exchange rates. The performance calculation will be performed once the 2011 The definitive calculation led to the grant of only 50% of accounts have been approved, by comparing the percentage performance shares initially allocated, which after adding increase in the 2011 audited and published operating margin shares granted subject to conditions of presence, represents of Capgemini Group compared with the 2010 audited and a ma ximum of 5 3 4,75 0 shares grante d. This in cludes published operating margin at constant Group structure and 200,250 shares for grant to members of the French plan which exchange rates. Based on the percentage increase calculated are deﬁnitively vested and delivered subject to a 2-year lock-in in this way: period and 334,500 shares for grant to members of the foreign • no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance plan, of which only 311,625 shares remain, which will be delivered condition if the increase in the operating margin thus calculated on March 5, 2013 subject to compliance with conditions of is less than 12%; presence at this date. • the number of shares that will ultimately vest: will be equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated Performance conditions and measurement of the if the increase is between 12% and 13.5%; 2010 Plan will be equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, if the increase is between 13.5% and 15%; 20 0 9 reg arding th e in clusion of internal an d ex ternal will be equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated performance conditions when granting performance shares, if the increase is greater than or equal to 15%. the Board of Directors decided to add an internal condition to The internal performance condition accounts for 30% of the the external condition initially planned. grant calculation. External performance condition The external performance condition is calculated in the same way as under the ﬁrst plan, except for the grant thresholds which have been tightened compared to the ﬁrst plan. As such: • no shares will be granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share during the period in question is less than 90% of the average performance of the basket of securities over the same period; CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 187 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 9. Change in shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2010 and 2011 Appropriation At December of profit for Other At December in thousands of euros 31, 2010 2010 movements 31, 2011 Share capital 1,246,163 1,246,163 Additional paid-in capital 5,717,403 5,717,403 Legal reserve 123,342 1,274 124,616 Tax-driven reserves Other reserves 561,853 561,853 Retained earnings 405,692 (18,179) 387,513 Dividends paid 153,794 (153,794) Profit for the year 136,889 (136,889) 171,563 171,563 Tax-driven provisions 6,067 3,132 9,199 TOTAL 8,197,409 20,901 8,218,310 The appropriation of the net proﬁt for 2010 led to the distribution Other movements concern tax-driven provisions in the amount on June 9, 2011 of a €1 dividend on each of the 155,770,362 of €3,132 thousand, corresponding to the accelerated tax shares making-up the share capital at December 31, 2010, depreciation of equity interests. for a total of €153,794 thousand. The amount not paid out on the 1,976,222 shares held by the Company on June 9, 2011 (€1,976 thousand) was appropriated to retained earnings. 10. Provisions for contingencies and losses Reversals Reversals Change in At At (utilized (surplus accounting December in thousands of euros January 1 Additions provision) provision) policy Other 31 Provisions for contingencies and losses relating to foreign exchange losses 4 6 4 6 relating to other risks TOTAL 4 6 4 6 Additions during the period correspond to a provision for currency risks set aside in respect of unrealized foreign exchange losses on foreign currency receivables and payables of €6 thousand. Reversals during the period concern a provision for currency risks recognized in 2010 in the amount of €4 thousand. 188 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 11. Bond issues and Convertible bonds in thousands of euros December 31, 2010 December 31, 2011 OCEANE 2005 Principal 437,000 350,050 Redemption premium 5 7, 87 3 4 6, 35 8 OCEANE 2009 575,000 575,000 2011 BOND ISSUE 0 500,000 TOTAL 1,069,873 1,471,408 A) “OCEANE 2005” convertible/exchangeable bonds Redemption at maturity issued on June 16, 2005 January 1, 2014 at par. On June 16, 2005, Cap Gemini S.A. issued bonds convertible/ exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini shares, maturing on Early redemption at the Company’s option January 1, 2012 (“OCEANE 2005”). Bondholders enjoy all rights • at any time, without limitation on price or quantity, by buying from June 24, 2005. back all or some of the bonds either on or off market or by The total amount of the issue was €437 million, represented by means of a public buyback or exchange offer, 11,810,810 bonds with a nominal value of €37 each. The bonds • bet ween April 20, 201 2 and the seventh business day bear interest at 1% per year. preceding January 1, 2014, all outstanding bonds may be The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the redeemed at an early redemption price equal to par, plus the prospectus approved by the AMF on June 16, 2005 under interest accrued since the most recent interest payment date, reference number 05-564. if (i) the then current conversion/exchange ratio multiplied by (ii) the arithmetic average of the opening prices quoted In November 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. redeemed a total of for the Company’s ordinary shares on the Eurolist market of 2,350,000 bonds in a number of transactions for an amount Euronext Paris S.A. over a period of 20 consecutive trading of €99,118 thousand, including accrued interest. Redeemed days, exceeds 130% of such early redemption price. Upon bonds were cancelled pursuant to the provisions set-out in the early redemption, the bonds may be redeemed either in cash prospectus. At December 31, 2011, 9,460,810 OCEANE 2005 or converted into Cap Gemini S.A. shares, at the option of the bonds remained outstanding, representing 80.1% of the number bondholders, of bonds initially issued. The remaining bonds were redeemed in • at any time, for all outstanding bonds, if less than 10% of the full on January 2, 2012. bonds are still outstanding. B) “OCEANE 2009” convertible/exchangeable bonds Early redemption at the option of bondholders issued on June 20, 2009 Bondholders may request the early redemption of all or part of On April 8, 2009, Cap Gemini S.A. issued bonds convertible/ their bonds in the event of a change in control of the Company. exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini shares, maturing on January 1, 2014 (“OCEANE 2009”). Bondholders enjoy all rights Early repayment from April 20, 2009. At the initiative of a majority of bondholders, particularly in the event The total amount of the issue was €575 million, represented by of a failure to pay sums due or to comply with other obligations 16,911,765 bonds with a nominal value of €34 each, resulting in set out in the documentation (beyond any “grace” periods, if an issue premium of 35% compared to the Company benchmark applicable), cross default (in excess of a minimum threshold), share price (weighted average share price between April 8 and the liquidation, dissolution or sale of all of the Company’s assets, or date on which the bond terms and conditions were ﬁnalized). The delisting of the Company’s shares from the Eurolist market of bonds bear interest at 3.5% per year. Euronext Paris S.A.. The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on April 8, 2009 under reference An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating would number 09-084. not constitute an early redemption event and would have no impact on the applicable interest rate. Summary of the main terms and conditions of the “oceane 2009” bond issue Pari passu status Conversion and/or exchange of the bonds for shares Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will rank At any time between April 20, 2009 and the seventh business pari passu with all other bonds issued by the Company. day preceding January 1, 2014. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 189 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 C) Bond issued on November 29, 2011 Syndicated credit facility obtained by Cap Gemini S.A. On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a euro bond On November 14, 2005, Cap Gemini S.A. signed a €500 million issue maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoy all multi-currency credit facility with a bank syndicate maturing on rights from November 29, 2011 (2011 Bond issue). November 14, 2011 at the latest. The total amount of the issue was €500 million, comprising 5,000 bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. The bonds On January 13, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. refinanced its multibear interest at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing to 6.50% currency credit facility with a syndicate of 18 banks for the in the event of a down-grading of Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating. same amount as previously ﬁnanced (€500 million), maturing on January 13, 2016. The initial margin on this new credit facility The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the is 0.90%, compared to 0.40% previously. This margin may be prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under adjusted according to the credit rating of Cap Gemini S.A. This reference number 11-546. facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn amounts equal to 35% of the margin (i.e. 0.315%), compared to 30% of the margin The Bond issue is redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. previously (i.e. 0.12%), that may be increased to 40% (35% previously) if Cap Gemini S.A.’s rating falls. Summary of the main terms and conditions of the 2011 bond issue An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating Redemption at maturity would have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. The bonds are redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. The other main terms and conditions of the credit facility, in particular with respect to certain financial ratios, remain Early redemption at the Company’s option unchanged. The bonds are redeemable at the Company’s option under cer tain conditions set out in the issue prospectus and Cap Gemini S.A. has agreed to comply with the following ﬁnancial particularly concerning the minimum redemption price. ratios (as deﬁned in IFRS) in respect of this credit facility: • the net debt to consolidated equity ratio must be less than 1 Early redemption at the option of bondholders at all times, Bondholders may request the early redemption of all or • interest coverage must be equal to or greater than 3 at part of their bonds in the event of a change in control of the December 31 and June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months Company, provided this change in control is accompanied by a then ended). downgrading of the Company’s ﬁnancial rating. At December 31, 2011, the Group complied with these ﬁnancial Early repayment ratios. At the initiative of a majority of bondholders, particularly in the event of a failure to pay sums due or to comply with other obligations The facility agreement includes covenants restricting the set out in the documentation (beyond any “grace” periods, if Company’s ability to carry out certain operations. These applicable), cross default (in excess of a minimum threshold), covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include liquidation, dissolution or sale of all of the Company’s assets. restrictions primarily relating to: • pledging assets as collateral, An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating • asset sales, mergers or similar transactions. would not constitute an early redemption event. Cap Gemini S.A. also committed to standard obligations, Pari passu status including an agreement to maintain pari passu status. Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will rank pari passu with all other bonds issued by the Company. The agreement contains the usual provisions relating to early repayment, including for failure to pay sums due, misrepresentation or failure to comply with other obligations included in the agreement (subject to any applicable “grace” 12. Bank loans and borrowings periods), cross defaults (in excess of a minimum threshold), insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings, change of control, or Bank loans and borrowings total €454,140 thousand and comprise changes which would have a signiﬁcant negative impact on the (i) the balances on certain euro and foreign bank accounts used in Group’s ﬁnancial position. connection with the Group’s worldwide cash pooling arrangements in the amount of €337,679 thousand, fully offset by opposite At December 31, 2011, this credit facility had not yet been drawn. balances of the same amount presented in cash and cash equivalents of the company, (ii) commercial paper issued in the amount of €90,000 thousand, (iii) bank overdrafts in the amount of €137 thousand and (iv) accrued interest of €26,324 thousand. 190 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 13. Maturity of payables at year-end More than in thousands of euros Gross amount One year or less one year Convertible bonds 971,408 396,408 575,000 Eurobond issue 500,000 500,000 Bank loans and borrowings Bank overdrafts 137 137 Bank overdrafts (Group cash pooling arrangement) 337,679 337,679 Commercial paper 90,000 90,000 Accrued interest 26,324 26,324 Sub-total 454,140 454,140 Group loans and borrowings Payable to the Group 376,692 376,692 Payable to related companies 408,362 408,362 Sub-total 785,054 785,054 Accounts and notes payable 4,003 4,003 Tax and social security liabilities 2,764 2,764 Other payables 425 425 TOTAL 2,717,794 1,642,794 1,075,000 Group loans of €376,692 thousand comprise: • two three-month revolving loans from Capgemini Deutschland • a three-month revolving loan from Capgemini U.K. Plc. of GmbH and Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH for a total €229,410 thousand. It was renewed on October 21, 2011 for an amount of €22,000 thousand; They were renewed on October amount of £200 million, maturing January 23, 2012 and pays 26, 2011, maturing January 26, 2012 and pay annual interest annual interest of 0.96975%. of 1.588%. • two one-month revolving loans from Inergi LP and New Horizon System Solution LP in Canada for a total amount of The three foreign currency loans are hedged by currency swaps €125,282 thousand. They were renewed at the same date on (euro/pound sterling and euro/Canadian dollar). December 28, 2011 for an amount of CAD 111 million and CAD 56 million respectively, maturing January 30, 2012 and pay annual interest of 1.682%. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 191 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 14. Accrued charges Accrued charges reported in the balance sheet can be analyzed as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Borrowings Accrued interest 26,324 Other liabilities Accounts and notes payable 4,003 Tax and social security liabilities 2,764 Other payables 425 TOTAL 33,516 15. Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency receivables and payables Provision for in thousands of euros Reported in assets Reported in liabilities currency risks On other receivables/payables 6 245 6 TOTAL 6 245 6 16. Net ﬁnance income (expense) in thousands of euros Amount Provisions relating to financial items Additions (63,106) Reversals 19,587 Sub-total (43,519) Dividends 48,749 Sub-total 48,749 Other financial income and expense Net proceeds from disposals of marketable securities 7,982 Loan income (capitalization contracts) 2,406 Revenue from current account loans granted and Group cash pooling arrangements 14,626 Interest on current account loans received and Group cash pooling arrangements (4,221) Interest on OCEANE bonds (24,371) Interest on the Eurobond (2,330) Interest on issued commercial paper (675) Net foreign exchange losses (net) (243) Other (10) Sub-total (6,836) NET FINANCE INCOME (EXPENSE) (1,604) The dividends of €48,749 thousand correspond to dividends (SICAV) for €2,483 thousand, investment funds (FCP) for €1,747 paid to the Company during the period by French, Italian, thousand and certiﬁcates of deposit for €3,752 thousand. Portuguese, and Polish subsidiaries. Additions to provisions for ﬁnancial items of €63,106 thousand Net income from short-term investments (€7,982 thousand) is primarily concern provisions for impairment of equity interests the result of investments during 2011 in money market funds in the amount of €37,900 thousand, relating to an Austrian 192 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 subsidiary for €19,909 thousand, a French subsidiary for €9,148 Provision reversals of €19,587 thousand primarily concern thousand and a Swiss subsidiary for €8,843 thousand, as well as reversals of provisions for impairment of equity interests relating additions to provisions for treasury shares of €16,324 thousand to an American subsidiary in the amount of €11,000 thousand and the amortization of the redemption premium on “OCEANE and a Polish subsidiary in the amount of €8,500 thousand. 2005” bonds of €8,876 thousand. 17. Net non-recurring income in thousands of euros Amount Non-recurring income from operations 93 Sub-total 93 Exceptional provisions (3,132) Net expense on disposals of treasury shares under the liquidity agreement (2,677) Other (8,307) Sub-total (14,116) NET NON-RECURRING INCOME (14,023) 18. Income tax expense In France, Cap Gemini S.A. is the parent company of a French €524 thousand in respect of ﬁscal year 2010. Tax losses carried tax consolidation group comprising 19 companies. In 2011, the forward by Cap Gemini S.A. amounted to €1,105,067 thousand impact of tax consolidation on the earnings of Cap Gemini S.A. at December 31, 2011. is an expense of €2,437 thousand, plus an additional expense of III – OTHER INFORMATION 19. Off-balance sheet commitments a) Commitments given to subsidiaries Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 can be analyzed as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Financial items 344,168 Operating items 837,370 Tax items 1 5,0 0 0 TOTAL 1,196,538 Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted to subsidiaries the contracts signed with HM Revenue & Customs, Schneider in respect of ﬁnancial items provide them with access to local Electric Industries, Euroclear, the Metropolitan Police Force, cash facilities in the form of credit lines. Total draw-downs Ontario Power Generation Inc., Environment Agency, Renault on these credit lines at December 31, 2011 amounted to S.A. and The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. €93,560 thousand. Cap Gemini S.A., together with all of its subsidiaries and any b) Other commitments entities which it directly or indirectly owns more than 50%, are The Group has provided per formance and /or financial insured for the ﬁnancial implications of any civil or professional guarantees for a number of major contracts. These include liability claims that may be filed against them as a result of CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 193 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 their activities. The insurance is part of a worldwide program • a euro/pound sterling swap with a positive value of €10,102 comprising a number of policies taken out with leading insurance thousand for a nominal amount of GBP 200 million (€229 million), companies. The terms and conditions of this insurance program • a euro/Swedish krona swap with a negative value of €567 (including maximum coverage) are regularly reviewed and thousand for a nominal amount of SEK 200 million (€22 million), adjusted to reﬂect changes in revenues, business activities and • a euro/Canadian dollar swap with a positive value of €1,135 risk proﬁles. The program’s largest policy, amounting to €30 thousand for a nominal amount of CAD 167 million (€125 million), million, has been in place for several years and is reinsured with • a euro/Australian dollar swap with a negative value of €619 a consolidated captive reinsurance subsidiary. thousand for a nominal amount of AUD 13 million (€9.7 million). Cap Gemini S.A. granted a ﬁnancial guarantee in connection At December 31, 2011 external currency derivatives instruments with the agreement signed on May 25, 2004 with France entered into pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group Telecom to transfer the management of part of the latter’s level, had a net negative value of €966 thousand. telecommunications network for a term of eight years. At December 31, 2011, off-balance sheet commitments received c) Financial instruments from subsidiaries on internal currency derivative instruments Currency hedges / Derivative instruments entered into pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group At December 31, 2011, the values of currency derivative level, had a positive value of €179 thousand. instruments negotiated in respect of foreign currency denominated internal ﬁnancing arrangements, break down as follows: • a euro/US dollar swap with a negative value of €13,964 thousand for a nominal amount of USD 220 million (€156 million), 20. Related companies in thousands of euros Amount Balance sheet items Equity interests 14,175,052 Receivable from controlled entities 465,091 Payable to controlled entities 376,692 Related companies receivable 559,496 payable 408,362 Income Statement items Investment income 48,749 Income on Group loans 7,662 Other interest income 6,603 Interest expense 3,952 21. Dilution tied to the Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) At December 31, 2011, the 2,999,000 redeemable share If all these redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) are not dilutive as (BSAAR) were exercised, the dilutive impact at December 31, the aggregate of the €34 strike price and €3.22 issue premium 2011 would be 1.89% after exercise. is higher than the average market price of the Cap Gemini share in 2011. 194 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 7 22. Consolidating company 24. Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors Cap Gemini S.A. is the consolidating company for the Capgemini Group. The total amount of attendance fees paid to Directors and non-voting directors in 2011 is €667,000 (or €602,500 after deduction of withholding tax for non-resident beneﬁciaries). 23. Subsequent events On January 2, 2012 the remaining “OCEANE 2005” bonds were redeemed for an amount of €400 million, including accrued interest. At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors will recommend a dividend payment of €1 per share in respect of 2011. 25. Fees paid to the statutory auditors and members of their network in thousands of euros Amount Statutory audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements 789 Other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement (*) 293 Sub-total 1,082 Other services Legal, tax and employee-related advisory services Other Sub-total TOTAL 1,082 (*) Other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement consist of buyer due diligence procedures. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 195 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Subsidiaries and investments 7 7.4. Subsidiaries and investments Other shareholders’ equity Book value (including Number of shares Loans & net income % of shares advances Guarantees 2011 Dividends in millions of euros Capital for the year) interest owned Gross Net granted given (1) Revenue received SUBSIDIARIES Capgemini North America Inc 1 3,059 100.00% 982,000 6,618 2,361 147 128 CGS HOLDINGS Ltd 636 1 100.00% 558,777,061 721 721 Gemini Consulting Holding Ltd 0 9 100.00% 1,083 23 23 Capgemini Oldco Ltd 12 26 100.00% 1,033,938,858 801 264 Capgemini AB (Sweden) 3 328 100.00% 25,861 387 387 22 9 Capgemini NV (Benelux) 2 309 100.00% 21,582,376 1,467 1,239 115 Capgemini Business services BV 0 2 100.00% 485 19 19 Capgemini Shared Services BV 0 0 100.00% 1,053 3 3 Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 129 1 95.59% 3 629 629 12 Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 0 8 100.00% 36,791 54 22 21 Capgemini Suisse AG 0 5 100.00% 500 45 30 69 50 Capgemini Polska Sp Z.o.o (Poland) 4 29 100.00% 129,160 25 25 55 145 5 Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft 0 1 100.00% 1 2 2 4 Capgemini Czech Republic s r o 1 3 98.77% 21,255 8 8 9 Capgemini France S.A.S. 70 321 100.00% 4,491,932 989 989 11 39 Capgemini Technology Services Maroc 3 1 99.99% 329,996 3 3 12 SOGETI N.V./S.A. 0 1 99.84% 619 0 0 SOGETI S.A.S. 261 312 100.00% 52,106,876 754 754 32 2 Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 18 17 100.00% 3,575,000 543 50 10 17 143 Capgemini España S.L. (Sociedad Unipersonal) 25 -20 76.02% 191,720 234 234 256 Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e 8 4 100.00% 1,698,842 44 44 25 Informatica, SA Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 1 0 99.80% 12,952,886 1 1 10 Capgemini Argentina S.A. 2 4 2.00% 126,369 0 0 27 Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) 24 -1 100.00% 17,421,229 148 11 1 Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) 149 -146 100.00% 1,502,342 172 60 10 34 109 Capgemini Business Services (India) 0 22 99.90% 4,995 25 25 2 63 Capgemini Service S.A.S 8 -2 100.00% 8,000,000 134 6 15 216 S.C.I. Paris Etoile 0 5 99.99% 9,999 48 31 3 Immobilière les Fontaines S.A.R.L 2 -13 99.84% 619,000 32 32 39 7 2 Capgemini Université S.A.S. 0 0 100.00% 2,500 0 0 13 Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 0 100.00% 10,000 0 0 21 Capgemini Consulting Cyprus Ltd 0 0 100.00% 101 0 0 CAP SOGETI 2005 229 100.00% 22,864,750 237 237 Capgemini Reinsurance International 20 100.00% 10,000 5 5 Other French compagnies nm nm nm nm 0 0 nm nm Other foreign compagnies nm nm nm nm 0 0 nm INVESTMENTS As of December 31, 2011, investments held by Cap Gemini SA are not material 196 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Five-year ﬁnancial summary 7.5 Five-year ﬁnancial summary 7 in thousands of euros 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 I SHARE CAPITAL AT YEAR-END Share capital 1,163,404 1,166,760 1,233,419 1,246,163 1,246,163 Number of common shares outstanding 145,425,510 145,844,938 154,177,396 155,770,362 155,770,362 Maximum number of future shares to be created: through exercise of equity warrants 10,291,173 8,696,637 9,655,432 9,079,500 6,484,125 through conversion to convertible bonds 20,830,416 20,830,416 32,583,691 28,722,575 26,372,575 II OPERATIONS AND RESULTS OF THE CURRENT YEAR Operating revenue 203,7 1 1 202,017 198,567 201,567 241,094 Operating revenue and financial revenue 639,994 382,207 297,617 278,822 339,560 Income before taxes, amortization and provisions 235,834 240,322 213,622 208,598 225,363 Income tax (32,227) (29,419) (27,418) (15,740) 2,962 Net income / (losses) 496,620 259,605 224,022 136,889 171,563 Distributed income 145,426 145,845 123,342 155,770 155,770 (1) III EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) Earnings after taxes, 1.84 1.85 1.56 1.44 1.43 but before amortization and provisions Net earnings 3.41 1.78 1.45 0.88 1.10 Dividend per share 1.00 1.00 0.80 1.00 1.00 (1) IV EMPLOYEE DATA Average number of employee during the year Cap Gemini S.A. does not have any employees Total payroll Total benefits (1) Subject to approval by the Combined shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 197 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory auditors’ report 7 7.6 Statutory auditors’ report STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Year ended December 31, 2011) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. The Statutory Auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether qualified or not. This information is presented below the opinion on the financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account captions or on information taken outside of the financial statements. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Equity interests as reported in the balance sheet amounted to Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year €8,216 million at December 31, 2011. The accounting principles ended December 31, 2011, on: used to determine the value in use of these investments are • the audit of the accompanying financial statements of described in Note I to the ﬁnancial statements. As part of our Cap Gemini S.A., assessments, we verified whether the approach applied was • the justiﬁcation of our assessments, correct and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations • the speciﬁc veriﬁcations and information required by law. were consistent overall. The ﬁnancial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these ﬁnancial These assessments were made in the context of our audit of the statements based on our audit. ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the ﬁrst part of this report. I Opinion on the ﬁnancial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional IIISpeciﬁc veriﬁcations and information standards applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, about whether the financial statements are free of material we have also performed the speciﬁc veriﬁcations required by law. misstatement. An audit includes verifying, on a test basis or by other selection methods, evidence supporting the amounts and We have no matters to report to you as to the fair presentation disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements. An audit also includes and consistency with the ﬁnancial statements of the information assessing the accounting principles used and significant given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the the documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. We believe that the ﬁnancial position and the ﬁnancial statements. the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Concerning the information disclosed pursuant to Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code on the remuneration In our opinion, the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and beneﬁts paid to corporate ofﬁcers and any other commitments of the Company’s ﬁnancial position and its assets and liabilities made in their favor, we have verified its consistency with the as of December 31, 2011, and of the results of its operations for financial statements or the information used as a basis for the year then ended in accordance with the accounting rules and preparing the ﬁnancial statements and, where appropriate, with the principles applicable in France. elements gathered by your Company from companies controlling your Company or controlled by it. Based on these procedures, we attest to the accuracy and fairness of such information. II Justiﬁcation of our assessments In accordance with the law, we have veriﬁed that the management In accordance with the requirements of Article L.823-9 of the report contains the appropriate disclosures concerning the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the acquisition of investments and controlling interests and the justiﬁcation of our assessments, we bring to your attention the identity of shareholders and holders of voting rights. following matter: The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 10, 2012 Paris La Défense, April 10, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner 198 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory auditors’ report 7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT ON REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS (Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments that is issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report on regulated agreements and commitments should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. It should be understood that the agreements reported on are only those provided by French corporate law (Code de Commerce) and that the report does not apply to those related party transactions described in IAS 24 or other equivalent accounting standards. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutor y Auditors of your Company, Agreements and commitments previously we hereby repor t to you on regulated agreements and approved by Shareholders’ Meeting commitments. Pursuant to Article R.225-30 of the French Commercial Code, The terms of our engagement require us to communicate to we have been informed that the following agreements and you, based on information provided to us, the principal terms commitments, previously approved by Shareholders’ Meetings and conditions of those agreements and commitments brought of prior years, have remained in force during the year. to our attention or which we may have discovered during the course of our audit, without expressing an opinion on their Type: usefulness and appropriateness or identifying such other Supplementary collective deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme set up agreements and commitments, if any. It is your responsibility, by the Company in favor of certain senior executives regarded pursuant to Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code as having made a significant and lasting contribution to the (Code de commerce), to assess the interest involved in respect of Group’s development. the conclusion of these agreements and commitments for the purpose of approving them. Purpose and terms: On December 13, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized Our role is also to provide you with the information stipulated the creation of a collective deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme in in Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating favor of certain senior executives of the Group, enabling them to the implementation during the past year of agreements to obtain, upon their retirement, a supplementary pension and commitments previously approved by the Shareholders’ that may not exceed 40% of their reference earnings. The Meeting, if any. beneﬁciary’s total cumulative pension beneﬁts may not exceed 50% of the reference earnings which are capped at 60 times the We conducted the procedures we deemed necessar y in annual ceiling for social security. accordance with the professional guidelines of the French National Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Messrs. Serge Kampf, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Commissaires aux Comptes) relating to this engagement. These Paul Hermelin, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Company, have procedures consisted in agreeing the information provided to been registered as beneﬁciaries of this plan. During 2011, these us with the relevant source documents. corporate ofﬁcers did not receive any compensation pursuant to this agreement. Agreements and commitments submitted to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting We hereby inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment authorized during the year to be submitted to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to Article L.225-38 of the French Commercial Code. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 10, 2012 Paris La Défense, April 10, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 199 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory auditors’ report 7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CANCELLATION OF SHARES BOUGHT BACK BY THE COMPANY (Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 – 10th resolution) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in the French language and is provided solely for English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company and in We performed the procedures we considered necessary with accordance with Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial regard to the professional standards of the French Institute of Code (Code de commerce) relating to the cancellation of shares Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux bought back by the Company, we hereby present our report with Comptes) applicable to such transactions. These procedures our comments on the reasons for and terms of the proposed consisted in verif ying that the reasons for and terms of capital decrease. the proposed capital decrease, which does not undermine shareholder equality, comply with applicable legal provisions. Shareholders are asked to grant the Board of Directors for a 24-month period commencing the date of this Shareholders’ We have no comments to make on the reasons for and terms Meeting, full powers to cancel the shares acquired under the and conditions of the proposed capital reduction. Company’s share buyback program pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned article, provided that the aggregate number of shares cancelled in any given 24-month period does not exceed 10% of the Company’s share capital. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 17, 2012 Paris La Défense, April 17, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner 200 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory auditors’ report 7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE ISSUE OF SHARES AND/OR SECURITIES WITH OR WITHOUT PRE-EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS (Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 – 13th to 18th resolutions) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in the French language and is provided solely for English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company and in shares and/or securities granting access to the Company’s share accordance with Articles L.228-92 and L.225-135 et seq. of capital, immediately or in the future, may not exceed €500 million the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby pursuant to the 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th and 18th resolutions, it being present our report on the proposed delegations of authority to specified that in connection with issues without pre-emptive the Board of Directors to carry out various issues of ordinary subscription rights, this amount may not exceed €185 million. shares and/or securities, as submitted to you for approval. Pursuant to these same resolutions, the total par value amount of issues of securities granting access to the Company’s share Based on its report, the Board of Directors is asking for capital, or granting a right to the allocation of debt instruments authorization: may not exceed €3.5 billion, reduced to €1.25 billion in connection • for a period of 26 months, to decide on the following with issues without pre-emptive subscription rights. transactions and set the ﬁnal terms and conditions of these issues and asks shareholders to waive their pre-emptive These ceilings include the additional securities to be issued on subscription rights, if necessary: the implementation of the delegations of authority referred to in the 13th, 14th and 15th resolutions, under the conditions set forth issues of ordinary shares and and/or securities granting in Article L.225-135-1 of the French Commercial Code, should access to the Company’s share capital or granting a right to you adopt the 16th resolution. allocation of debt instruments, with pre-emptive subscription rights (13th resolution), The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a report in accordance with Articles R. 225-113 et seq. of the French issues, in the form of a public offering, of ordinary shares and/ Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an or securities granting access to the Company’s share capital opinion on (i) the fairness of the financial information taken or granting a right to allocation of debt instruments without from the financial statements,(ii) the proposed cancellation pre-emptive subscription rights (14th resolution), of pre-emptive subscription rights and (iii) other information concerning the transactions, presented in this report. issues, in the form of an offering as set out in paragraph II of Article L.411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial We performed the procedures we considered necessary with Code (Code monétaire et financier), of ordinary shares and/or regard to the professional guidelines of the French Institute of securities granting access to the Company’s share capital Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux or granting a right to allocation of debt instruments without Comptes) applicable to such transactions. These procedures pre-emptive subscription rights (15th resolution), consisted in reviewing the content of the Board of Directors’ report relating to these transactions and the methods used to issues of ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to determine the share issue price. the Company’s share capital or granting a right to allocation of debt instruments in the event of a public exchange offer made Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions by the Company (18th resolution), of the proposed issues, we have no comments as regards the methods used to set the share issue price as presented • for a period of 26 months, to set the terms and conditions of in the Board of Directors’ report pursuant to the 14th and 15th issues of ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to resolutions. the Company’s share capital, as payment for contributions in kind made to the Company comprised of shares or securities In addition, since the Board of Directors’ report does not specify granting access to share capital (17th resolution) for up to 10% the methods for determining the issue price of shares to be of the Company’s current share capital. issued in connection with the implementation of the 13th, 17th and 18th resolutions, we do not express an opinion on the elements Pursuant to the 12th resolution, the total par value amount of used to calculate the share issue price. capital increases that may thus be carried out by issuing ordinary CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 201 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory auditors’ report 7 As the share issue price has not yet been set, we do not express In accordance with Article R. 225-116 of the French Commercial an opinion on the final terms and conditions relating to the Code, we will issue a supplementary report, if necessary, when determination of the share issue price, and consequently, on the the Board of Directors uses these authorizations in the event proposed waiver of pre-emptive subscription rights pursuant to of issues of securities granting access to the Company’s the 14th and 15th resolutions. share capital and/or granting a right to the allocation of debt instruments or issues of ordinary shares without pre-emptive subscription rights. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 17, 2012 Paris La Défense, April 17, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner 202 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 7. CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory auditors’ report 7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT FREE SHARES (EXISTING OR TO BE ISSUED) TO EMPLOYEES AND CORPORATE OFFICERS (Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 – 19th resolution) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in the French language and is provided solely for English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company and in and its French and foreign subsidiaries, will be subject to the accordance with Article L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial achievement of performance targets and a maximum number Code (Code de commerce), we hereby present our report on the of shares with a par value of €8 not exceeding 1.5% of the share authorization to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) to capital. It also states that the grant of shares to corporate employees and corporate ofﬁcers of the Company and its French officers of Cap Gemini S.A. will be limited to 10% of the and non-French subsidiaries, as submitted to you for approval. aforementioned amount. Based on its report, the Board of Directors is asking for We performed the procedures we considered necessary with authorization, for an 18-month period, to perform free grants regard to the professional standards of the French Institute of of existing shares or shares to be issued. Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) applicable to such transactions. These procedures The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a report primarily consisted in verifying that the proposed terms and on this transaction which it wishes to perform. Our role is to conditions presented in the Board of Directors’ report comply express our comments, if any, on the information presented on with applicable legal provisions. the proposed transaction. We have no comments to make on the information presented in The Board of Directors’ report states that the grant of existing the Board of Directors’ report on the proposed authorization to shares or shares to be issued to employees of Cap Gemini S.A. grant free shares. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 17, 2012 Paris La Défense, April 17, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 203 204 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 24, 2012 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 24, 2012 205 8.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ meeting 206 8.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ meeting 208 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 205 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8 8.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting FIRST RESOLUTION • allocated to: Approval of the 2011 Company ﬁnancial statements payment of a dividend of €1 per share: €155,770,362.00 The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance retained earnings for the balance: €403,305,461.48 with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ giving a total of: €559,075,823.48 Meetings and after having read the following: • the management report of the Board of Directors, • the special report presented by the Chairman, and, It should be noted that the dividend, set at €1 for each of the • the Statutory Auditors’ report on their audit of the Company 155,770,362 shares bearing dividend rights on January 1, 2011, ﬁnancial statements, will be fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article approves the Company financial statements for the year 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts). ended December 31, 2011, that show profit for the year of €171,563,263.44, and gives discharge to the Board of Directors The ex-dividend date will be June 4, 2012 and the dividend for its management of the Company’s business during the year. will be payable from June 7, 2012. If, at the time of payment of the dividend, the Company holds some of its own shares, the dividend for these shares will be added to retained earnings. SECOND RESOLUTION Approval of the 2011 consolidated ﬁnancial statements Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, dividends The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance paid over the pas t three fisc al years were as follows: with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ €155,770,362 for 2010 (€1 per share); €123,341,916.80 for Meetings and after having read the following: 2009 (€0.80 per share); €145,844,938 for 2008 (€1 per share). • the Group management report of the Board of Directors for All of these dividends were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate 2011, set out in Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code. • the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, approves the consolidated financial statements for the year FIFTH RESOLUTION (*) ended December 31, 2011, that show net proﬁt for the year of Appointment of a Director representing employee €404 million. shareholders in accordance with Article 11-5 of the bylaws The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance THIRD RESOLUTION with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Regulated agreements Meetings, appoints Mrs. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas as director The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance representing employee shareholders for a four-year period. with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ This term of office shall therefore expire at the close of the Meetings and after having read the Statutory Auditors’ special Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the ﬁnancial report on regulated agreements governed by Article L.225-38 statements for the year ending December 31, 2015. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), records that no such agreement has been entered into during the past year. SIXTH RESOLUTION (*) Appointment of a Director representing employee shareholders in accordance with Article 11-5 of the FOURTH RESOLUTION bylaws (resolution not supported by the Board of Net income appropriation and dividend Directors) The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, approves the recommendations of the Board of Meetings, appoints Mrs. Carla Heimbigner as director Directors to appropriate the proﬁt for the year ended December representing employee shareholders for a four-year period. 31, 2011 as follows: This term of office shall therefore expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the ﬁnancial • Net profit for the year €171,563,263.44 statements for the year ending December 31, 2015. • No allocation to the legal reserve as it is fully funded i.e. a balance of: €171,563,263.44 * Resolutions 5 and 6: pursuant to Article 11-5 of the bylaws, only • Retained earnings from previous years €387,512,560.04 a single seat of director representing employee shareholders is i.e. distributable earnings of: €559,075,823.48 available. The candidate receiving the greatest number of votes shall therefore be elected. 206 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8 SEVENTH RESOLUTION • to cancel the shares thus purchased subject to adoption of Renewal of the term of ofﬁce as non-voting director the tenth resolution included in the agenda of this Combined of Mr. Pierre Hessler Shareholders’ Meeting. At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and The acquisition, disposal and transfer transactions described majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for above may be carried out by any method in accordance with a two-year period the term of office as non-voting director of applicable laws and regulations –including through the use of Mr. Pierre Hessler, which expires at the close of this meeting. This derivative instruments or by means of a block purchase or transfer new term of ofﬁce shall therefore expire at the close of the Ordinary of shares– and be carried out at any time, except during public Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the ﬁnancial statements for offers for Company shares. the year ending December 31, 2013. The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting: • resolves that the maximum purchase price for shares under EIGHTH RESOLUTION the buyback program may not exceed €55 per share with a par Renewal of the term of ofﬁce as non-voting director value of €8. In the event of a share capital increase paid up by of Mr. Geoff Unwin capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, profit or other At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Combined amounts and allocating shares without consideration during Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and the period of validity of this authorization (as well as in the majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for event of a stock-split or reverse stock-split), the maximum price a two-year period the term of office as non-voting director of per share will be adjusted based on the ratio of the number of Mr. Geoff Unwin, which expires at the close of this meeting. This shares issued and outstanding before the transaction to this new term of ofﬁce shall therefore expire at the close of the Ordinary number after the transaction, and the above maximum number Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the ﬁnancial statements for of shares will be adjusted based on the ratio of the total number the year ending December 31, 2013. of shares representing the share capital after the transaction to this number before the transaction; NINTH RESOLUTION • resolves that the maximum number of shares that may be Authorization to the Board of Directors to enable the acquired under this resolution may not exceed 10% of the Company to buy back its own shares within the limit Company’s share capital. It is speciﬁed, however, that: of a number of shares equal to a maximum of 10% within the context of this authorization, the number of treasury of its share capital shares should be taken into account to ensure that the Company In accordance with Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French does not own, at any time, over 10% of its own share capital, and Commercial Code and with European Commission Regulation the number of treasury shares to be tendered in payment or No. 2273/2003 of December 22, 2003, the Combined exchange in the context of a merger, de-merger or contribution Shareholders’ Meeting voting in accordance with quorum may not represent more than 5% of the share capital. and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and Based on the number of shares making up the Company’s after having read the Board of Directors’ report authorizes share capital at December 31, 2011, the theoretical maximum the Company for the reasons and subject to the terms and amount that the Company could invest in share buybacks is conditions detailed below to buy back its own shares. €856,736,980, that is, 15,577,036 shares with a par value of €8 acquired at a maximum price per share of €55. This authorization is given to allow the Company, if required: • to manage the secondary market and share liquidity through The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting gives full powers to the an investment services provider within the scope of a liquidity Board of Directors (including the power of delegation subject to agreement in accordance with the ethics charter recognized applicable law) to: by the AMF, • implement this authorization, • to award shares to employees and/or corporate ofﬁcers (on • place any and all buy and sell orders and enter into any and all the terms and by the methods provided by law), in particular agreements, in particular for the keeping of registers of share in connection with a plan involving the allocation of shares purchases and sales, in accordance with applicable regulations, without consideration, a company savings plan or an • carry out any and all ﬁlings and other formalities and generally do international employee share ownership plan, whatever is necessary. • to remit the shares thus purchased to holders of securities granting access to the Company’s share capital upon exercise The Board of Directors will detail in its annual report to the of the rights attached thereto, in accordance with applicable Combined Shareholders’ Meeting all transactions carried out regulations, under this authorization, which is given for a period of 18 months • to purchase shares to be retained with a view to remitting as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes them in the future in exchange or payment for potential the authorization given in the sixth resolution adopted by the external growth transactions, Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 207 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8 8.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting TENTH RESOLUTION authorization given in the eighteenth resolution adopted by the Authorization to the Board of Directors to cancel Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010. shares acquired by the Company under the share buyback programs In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-209 of TWELFTH RESOLUTION the French Commercial Code, the Combined Shareholders’ Setting general ceilings on the delegations of authority Meeting voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules resulting from the following six resolutions for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after having The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting –voting in accordance read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ special report – authorizes the Board of Directors to cancel, on Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ report– one or several occasions at its sole discretion, all or some of resolves to set as follows: the Cap Gemini S.A. shares held by the Company pursuant to Article 225-209, provided that the aggregate number of shares • the total amount of share issues with or without pre-emptive cancelled in any given period of 24 months does not exceed subscription rights that may be carried out pursuant to 10% of the Company’s share capital and to reduce the share the authorizations given to the Board of Directors in the capital accordingly. six resolutions hereafter (thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions): The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting gives full powers to the total par value amount (excluding share premiums) of the Board of Directors to use the authorization given in this capital increases that may thus be carried out by issuing resolution, deduct from additional paid-in capital or any ordinar y shares or securities granting access to the distributable reserves the difference between the purchase Company’s share capital may not exceed €500 million price of the cancelled shares and their par value, to amend the (approximately 40% of the share capital at December 31, bylaws and to carry out all necessary formalities. 2011), to which will be added, where applicable, the par value of the shares to be issued in order to protect the rights of This authorization is granted for a period of 24 months as from holders of securities granting access to the Company’s share the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes the capital, it being speciﬁed that this limit will not apply to capital authorization given in the seventh resolution adopted by the increases by capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011. proﬁt or other amounts. In the case of a capital increase by capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, profit or other amounts by allocating shares without consideration ELEVENTH RESOLUTION during the period of validity of this delegation of authority, Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to the maximum par value amount (excluding share premiums) carry out a capital increase by capitalizing reserves referred to above will be adjusted based on the ratio between In accordance with Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-19-2 and L. the number of shares issued and outstanding before and 225-130 of the French Commercial Code, the Combined after the transaction, Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and the maximum aggregate amount issues of securities granting majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after access to the Company’s share capital or granting a right to having read the Board of Directors’ report: allocation of debt instruments may not exceed €3.5 billion. • authorizes the Board of Directors to decide to increase the • the total amount of share issues without pre-emptive share capital on one or several occasions by capitalizing subscription rights that may be carried out pursuant to additional paid-in capital, reserves, proﬁt or other amounts in the authorizations given to the Board of Directors in the the form of an allocation of shares without consideration or by five resolutions hereafter (fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, raising the par value of existing shares, seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions): the total par value amount (excluding share premiums) of • but decides that, within the scope of this authorization, the capital increases that may thus be carried out by issuing par value amount of the increases in capital by capitalizing ordinar y shares or securities granting access to the reserves may not exceed €1.5 billion. Company’s share capital may not exceed €185 million (approximately 15% of the share capital at December 31, Within the scope of this authorization, the Board of Directors 2011), to which will be added, where applicable, the par value may decide that fractional rights will not be transferable, that of the shares to be issued in order to protect the rights of the corresponding shares will be sold and that the proceeds holders of securities granting access to the Company’s share from the sale will be allocated to the holders of such rights. capital, it being speciﬁed that this limit will not apply to capital increases by capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, This authorization is granted for a period of 26 months as from proﬁt or other amounts. In the case of a capital increase by the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes the capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, profit or 208 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8 other amounts by allocating shares without consideration the aggregate amount of issues of securities granting during the period of validity of this delegation of authority, access to the Company’s share capital or granting a right to the maximum par value amount (excluding share premiums) allocation of debt instruments may not exceed €3.5 billion, referred to above will be adjusted based on the ratio between • resolves that, if the Board of Directors makes use of this the number of shares issued and outstanding before and delegation of authority: after the transaction, the shareholders will have a pre-emptive right and may the maximum aggregate amount of issues of securities subscribe, pursuant to their priority rights, for ordinary granting access to the Company’s share capital or granting shares and securities issued pursuant to this resolution in a right to allocation of debt instruments may not exceed proportion to the number of shares held by them, and the €1.25 billion. Board of Directors is authorized to establish pre-emptive subscription rights for excess shares and to provide for an extension clause exclusively aimed at satisfying pre-emptive THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION subscription orders for excess shares that could not be Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors satisﬁed, to issue ordinary shares and/or securities granting if subscriptions by shareholders pursuant to their priority access to the Company’s share capital or granting rights pro rata to their existing holdings, as well as to any a right to allocation of debt instruments with shares not taken up by other shareholders, do not cover pre-emptive subscription rights the total amount of the share issue, the Board of Directors In accordance with Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, L. 225-132 may notably offer to the public all or some of the shares not and L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code, the Combined subscribed, Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, • authorizes the Board of Directors to offset the share issue and after having read the Board of Directors’ report and the costs against the related premiums and deduct from these Statutory Auditors’ special report: issue premiums the amounts necessary to bring the legal reserve to one-tenth of the new share capital. • delegates to the Board of Directors the authority to decide on the issue, on one or several occasions, by the methods and on This delegation of authority is granted for a period of 26 months the terms that it deems ﬁt, in France or other countries, of new as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes ordinary shares of the Company and/or securities granting the delegation of authority given in the twentieth resolution access to the Company’s share capital, immediately and/ adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, or in the future, or granting a right to the allocation of debt 2010. instruments issued by the Company. These securities may be denominated either in euros, or in foreign currencies, or in any FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION monetary unit established by reference to several currencies, Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to issue, in the form of a public offering, ordinary shares • resolves that the shares and securities issued within the scope and/or securities granting access to the Company’s of this authorization will be subject to the following ceilings, in share capital or granting a right to allocation of debt addition to the general ceilings set in indent one of the twelfth instruments without pre-emptive subscription rights resolution: In accordance with Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, L. 225-135, the total par value amount (excluding share premiums) L. 225-136 and L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code, the of capital increases that may thus be carried out as a Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with result of issuing shares or securities granting access to quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ the Company’s share capital may not exceed €500 million Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ report (approximately 40% of the share capital at December 31, and the Statutory Auditors’ special report: 2011), to which will be added, where applicable, the par value of the shares to be issued in order to preserve the rights of • authorizes the Board of Directors to decide on the issue, in holders of securities granting access to the Company’s the form of a public offering, on one or several occasions, by share capital. In the case of a share issue by capitalizing the methods and on the terms that it deems ﬁt, in France or additional paid-in capital, reserves, proﬁt or other amounts other countries, of ordinary shares of the Company and/or by allocating shares without consideration during the period securities granting access to ordinary shares of the Company, of validity of this delegation of authority, the maximum par immediately and/or in the future, or granting a right to the value amount (excluding share premiums) referred to above allocation of debt instruments issued by the Company. These will be adjusted based on the ratio between the number securities may be denominated either in euros, or in foreign of shares issued and outstanding before and after the currencies, or in any monetary unit established by reference transaction, to several currencies, CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 209 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8 • resolves that the shares and securities issued within the scope FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION of this authorization will be subject to the following ceilings, in Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to addition to the general ceilings set in the twelfth resolution: issue, in the form of a private placement, ordinary the total par value amount (excluding share premiums) of shares and/or securities granting access to capital increases that may thus be carried out by issuing the Company’s share capital or granting a right to shares or securities granting access to the Company’s allocation of debt instruments without pre-emptive share capital may not exceed €185 million, (approximately subscription rights 15% of the share capital at December 31, 2011), to which In accordance with Articles L. 225-129-2, L. 225-135, L. 225-136 will be added, where applicable, the par value of the shares and L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code, the Combined to be issued in order to preserve the rights of holders of Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum securities granting access to the Company’s share capital. and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, In the case of a share issue by capitalizing additional paid-in and after having read the Board of Directors’ report and the capital, reserves, profit or other amounts by allocating Statutory Auditors’ special report: shares without consideration during the period of validity of this delegation of authority, the maximum par value • authorizes the Board of Directors to decide, on one or several amount (excluding share premiums) referred to above will be occasions, on the issue carried out in the form of an offering adjusted based on the ratio between the number of shares as set out in paragraph II of Article L. 411-2 of the French issued and outstanding before and after the transaction, Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et financier), in the aggregate amount of the issue of securities granting France or other countries, of ordinary shares of the Company access to the Company’s share capital or granting a right to and/or securities granting access to ordinary shares of the allocation of debt instruments may not exceed €1.25 billion, Company, immediately and/or in the future, or granting a right to the allocation of debt instruments issued by the Company. • resolves to cancel shareholder pre-emptive subscription These securities may be denominated either in euros, or in rights to these shares and securities granting access to foreign currencies, or in any monetary unit established by the Company’s share capital that may be issued under reference to several currencies, this delegation of authority, giving the Board of Directors the power, however, to provide for a priority right for the • resolves that the shares and securities issued within the scope shareholders to all or part of the issue, during the period and of this authorization will be subject to the following ceilings, in by the methods that it deems ﬁt, addition to the general ceilings set in the twelfth resolution: the total par value amount (excluding share premiums) of • resolves that the price of the ordinary shares issued, or capital increases that may thus be carried out by issuing the shares to which the securities granting access to the shares or securities granting access to the Company’s Company’s share capital issued in accordance with this share capital may not exceed €185 million, (approximately authorization may confer entitlement, shall be at least equal 15% of the share capital at December 31, 2011), to which to the weighted average price of the Company’s shares during will be added, where applicable, the par value of the shares the three trading days preceding the date on which the price to be issued in order to preserve the rights of holders of is set. This price may be reduced by a discount of up to 5%, securities granting access to the Company’s share capital. In the case of a share issue by capitalizing additional paid-in • resolves that the issue price of securities granting access capital, reserves, profit or other amounts by allocating to the Company’s share capital will be such that the amount shares without consideration during the period of validity immediately collected by the Company plus, where applicable, of this delegation of authority, the maximum par value any amount that is likely to be collected subsequently by the amount (excluding share premiums) referred to above will be Company, is, for each share issued as a result of the issue of adjusted based on the ratio between the number of shares these securities, at least equal to the amount set out in the issued and outstanding before and after the transaction, preceding paragraph, the aggregate amount of issues of securities granting access to the Company’s share capital or granting a right to • authorizes the Board of Directors to offset the share issue allocation of debt instruments may not exceed €1.25 billion, costs against the related premiums and deduct from these issue premiums the amounts necessary to bring the legal • resolves to cancel shareholder pre-emptive subscription reserve to one-tenth of the new share capital. rights to these shares and securities that may be issued under this delegation of authority, This delegation of authority is granted for a period of 26 months as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes • resolves that the price of the ordinary shares issued, or the delegation of authority given in the twenty-ﬁrst resolution the shares to which the securities granting access to the adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, Company’s share capital issued in accordance with this 2010. authorization may confer entitlement, shall be at least be equal to the weighted average price of the Company’s shares during 210 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8 the three trading days preceding the date on which the price is the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ special set. This price may be reduced by a discount of up to 5%, report: • delegates to the Board of Directors the authority required to • resolves that the issue price of securities granting access carry out an issue of ordinary shares or securities granting to the Company’s share capital will be such that the amount access to the Company’s share capital, as payment for immediately collected by the Company plus, where applicable, contributions in kind made to the Company comprised of any amount that is likely to be collected subsequently by the shares or securities granting access to share capital where Company, is, for each share issued as a result of the issue of the provisions of Article L.225-148 of the French Commercial these securities, at least equal to the amount set out in the Code do not apply, preceding paragraph, • resolves that the shares and securities issued within the scope • authorizes the Board of Directors to offset the share issue of this authorization will be subject to a ceiling of 10% of the costs against the related premiums and deduct from these Company’s current share capital, in addition to the general issue premiums the amounts necessary to bring the legal ceilings set in the twelfth resolution, reserve to one-tenth of the new share capital. • notes that existing shareholders of the Company shall not This delegation of authority is granted for a period of 26 months have a pre-emptive right to subscribe for any shares and/or as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes other securities issued pursuant to this authorization, as the the delegation of authority given in the twenty-second exclusive purpose of such issues shall be to provide payment resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of for contributions in kind, May 27, 2010. • authorizes the Board of Directors to use this authorization, approve the valuation of contributions, issue such shares or SIXTEENTH RESOLUTION securities, offset the share issue costs against the related Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors premiums and amend the bylaws accordingly. to increase the number of securities to be issued within the scope of over-allotment options This delegation of authority is granted for a period of 26 months (“Greenshoe” options) as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting voting in accordance the delegation of authority given in the twenty-ﬁfth resolution with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ report 2010. and the Statutory Auditors’ special report — delegates its authority within the scope of issues performed with or without pre-emptive subscription rights and decided based on the EIGHTEENTH RESOLUTION authorizations granted to the Board of Directors pursuant to Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors the three preceding resolutions (thirteenth, fourteenth and to issue ordinary shares and/or securities granting fifteenth resolutions), to increase the number of securities access to the Company’s share capital or granting a initially offered under the conditions and within the limits right to allocation of debt instruments as payment for provided for by Articles L. 225-135-1 and R. 225-118 of the shares tendered to any public exchange offer made French Commercial Code and within the limit of the ceilings by the Company provided for in such resolutions. In accordance with Articles L. 225-148, L. 225-129 and L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code, the Combined This delegation of authority is granted for a period of 26 months Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting. and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ special report: SEVENTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors • delegates to the Board of Directors the authority to decide, to issue ordinary shares and/or securities granting on one or several occasions, on the issue of ordinary shares access to the Company’s share capital for contribuand/or securities granting access to ordinary shares of tions in kind to the Company of shares or securities the Company or, provided that the first debt instrument granting access to share capital constitutes shares, granting a right to the allocation of debt In accordance with Articles L. 225-147 and L. 228-92 of the instruments as payment for shares tendered to any public French Commercial Code, the Combined Shareholders’ exchange offer made by the Company in France or other Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules countries for the shares of another company traded on one of for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after having read the regulated markets set out in Article L. 225-148, CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 211 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8 • resolves that the shares and securities issued within the scope 1. a u t h o r ize s t h e B o a rd of D i re c to r s s u b j e c t to t h e of this authorization will be subject to the following ceilings, in achievement of the p er formance targets defined in addition to the general ceilings set in the twelfth resolution: paragraph 4 of the present resolution and for a number of the total par value amount (excluding share premiums) of shares with a par value of €8 not exceeding 1.5% of the share capital increases that may thus be carried out by issuing capital at the date of the decision (this maximum number shares or securities granting access to the Company’s of shares being referred to hereafter by the letter “N”) to share capital may not exceed €185 million (approximately allocate shares of the Company (existing or to be issued), to 15% of the share capital at December 31, 2011), to which employees and corporate officers of the Company and its will be added, where applicable, the par value of the shares French and non-French subsidiaries; to be issued in order to preserve the rights of holders of securities granting access to the Company’s share capital. 2. resolves that up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, these In the case of a share issue by capitalizing additional paid-in performance shares may also be allocated, in accordance capital, reserves, profit or other amounts by allocating with applicable laws, to the Chairman of the Board of shares without consideration during the period of validity Directors, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the Deputy Chief of this delegation of authority, the maximum par value Executive Officers of the Company, it being specified that amount (excluding share premiums) referred to above will be in this case, the shares may not be transferred by their adjusted based on the ratio between the number of shares beneﬁciary until the end of the beneﬁciary’s term of ofﬁce; issued and outstanding before and after the transaction, the aggregate amount of issues of securities granting 3. resolves that these performance shares will only vest at the access to the Company’s share capital or granting a right to end of: allocation of debt instruments may not exceed €1.25 billion, a) a period of at least two years, in which case the beneﬁciary will be required to hold the shares for an additional minimum • notes that existing shareholders of the Company shall not period of two years from the date on which they vest, or have a pre-emptive right to subscribe for any shares and/or b) a period of at least four years, in which case there will be no other securities issued pursuant to this authorization, as the minimum holding requirement; exclusive purpose of such issues shall be to provide payment for securities tendered to public exchange offers made by the The Board of Directors may decide between the above Company, two options and apply them alternately or concurrently, depending on regulatory provisions in force in the country of • notes that the price of the shares and other securities residence of the beneﬁciaries. However, the shares will vest issued under this authorization will be set based on the laws before the expiry of the above periods and with no minimum applicable to public exchange offers, holding period in the event of the death or incapacity of a beneficiary, corresponding to a Category 2 or 3 disability • authorizes the Board of Directors, or a representative in France, as deﬁned in Article L. 341-4 of the French Social duly authorized in accordance with the law, to use this Security Code (Code de la Sécurité Sociale); authorization and to offset the share issue costs against the related premiums. 4. resolves that the exact number of shares vesting at the end of the minimum period of at least two or four years (depending This delegation of authorit y is granted for a period of on whether option 3a) or option 3b) is chosen) following the 26 months as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and date of initial notiﬁcation of the allocation, will be: supersedes the delegation of authority given in the twenty-sixth i) for half, equal to the number of shares indicated on the resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of allocation notice, multiplied by the percentage of achievement May 27, 2010. of the chosen external performance target, it being specified that: • unless the Board of Directors subsequently makes a duly NINETEENTH RESOLUTION reasoned decision to the contrary, the performance target to Authorization to be given to the Board of Directors be met in order for the shares to vest will be the performance to allocate performance shares to employees and of the Cap Gemini S.A. share measured over a minimum corporate ofﬁcers of the Company and its French two-year period compared to the average performance, and non-French subsidiaries measured over the same period, of a basket of at least ﬁve In accordance with Articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French shares of listed companies operating in the same sector as Commercial Code, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Group in a minimum of ﬁve countries in which the Group voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for is ﬁrmly established (France, the United States, India, etc.), Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after having read • this relative performance will be measured by comparing the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ the stock market performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share special report: with the average share price performance of the companies 212 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8 comprising the basket over the same period, such that: 6. gives powers to the Board of Directors to implement this the number of shares that will ultimately vest: authorization, and in particular: • will be equal to 50% of the number of shares initially • to set the share allocation date, allocated if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. • to draw up one or more list(s) of beneficiaries and the share is at least equal to 110% of the basket, number of shares allocated to each beneﬁciary, • will vary between 30% and 50% of the initial allocation if • to decide, in the event that transactions are carried out the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is before the shares vest that affect the Company’s issued between 100% and 110% of the average performance of capital, whether to adjust the number of the shares allocated the basket, with an additional 2% of shares vesting for each in order to protect the rights of the beneﬁciaries and, if so, to tenth of a point between these limits, deﬁne the terms and conditions of such adjustment, • will be equal to 30% of the number of shares initially • to perform, where the allocations concern shares to be issued, allocated if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. the necessary share capital increases by capitalization of share is equal to 100% of the basket, reserves and/or additional paid-in capital of the Company when • will vary between 20% and 30% of the initial allocation if the shares ultimately vest, to set the dates from which shares the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is bear dividend rights and to amend the bylaws accordingly, between 90% and 100% of the average performance of • to carry out all formalities and, more generally, to do the basket, with an additional 1% of shares vesting for each whatever is necessary. tenth of a point between these limits, no shares will vest if, over the period used as the reference This authorization is granted for a period of 18 months as from for the calculation, the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes the share is less than 90% of the average performance of the authorization given in the eleventh resolution adopted by the basket of securities over the same period, Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011. ii) for half, equal to the number of shares indicated on the allocation notice, multiplied by the percentage of TWENTIETH RESOLUTION achievement of the chosen internal performance target, it Amendment of Article 19 of the bylaws to allow being speciﬁed that: shareholders to vote using the internet • unless the Board of Directors subsequently makes a The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance duly reasoned decision to the contrary, the performance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ target to be met in order for the shares to vest will be the Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ report, amount of audited and published organic free cash ﬂow for decides to amend Article 19 of the bylaws “Shareholders’ the three-year cumulative period from January 1, 2012 to Meetings “as follows: December 31, 2014, excluding Group payments to make up the shortfall on its deﬁned beneﬁt pension funds, “Shareholders’ Meetings are convened by the Board of Directors. • no shares will vest if the cumulative organic cash ﬂow for the Meetings are held at the Company’s headquarters or any other three ﬁscal years is less than €750 million; location in the same “département1”, or neighboring “département1”, • the number of shares that will ultimately vest will be equal to detailed in the notice of meeting. 50% of the initial allocation if the cumulative organic cash flow for the three fiscal years is at least €1 billion and will Shares carry voting rights based on the proportion of capital vary on a straight-line basis between nil and half of the initial represented. All shares have the same par value and they therefore all allocation for a cumulative organic free cash ﬂow between carry one vote per share. these two limits; it being understood that “organic free cash ﬂow” is deﬁned as The right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings is evidenced by an cash ﬂow from operations less acquisitions (net of disposals) entry in the name of the shareholder (or of the intermediary acting of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, on his/her behalf if domiciled outside France) in the Company’s share adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost (as register or in the register of bearer shares held by the applicable presented in the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows); authorized intermediary. Such entries must be recorded by 12:00 a.m. (Paris time) on the third working day preceding the Meeting and 5. resolves that by exception, and for an amount not exceeding any related notices must be filed at one of the addresses indicated in 15% of “N”, shares may be allocated to employees of the the notice of meeting. Company and its French (pursuant to Article L. 225-197-6, In the case of bearer shares, the authorized intermediary shall provide paragraph 1, of the French Commercial Code) and foreign a participation certificate. subsidiaries –excluding members of Group Management– without performance conditions; 1 France is divided into a number of territorial areas for administrative purposes known as “départements” CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 213 8. TEXT OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 8 Shareholders may participate in Shareholders’ Meetings in person, by If the Board of Directors so decides when convening the Meeting, proxy or by casting a remote vote in accordance with the terms and shareholders may participate and vote at the Meeting using any conditions set by applicable regulations. telecommunication or teletransmission means enabling their identification, including the internet, in accordance with the Shareholders who have informed the Company that they wish to conditions set out in applicable regulations at the time of use. participate in a Meeting in person, remotely or by proxy may not alter Where applicable, this decision of the Board of Directors shall be their method of participation. However, attendance at a Meeting by a communicated in the notice of meeting published in BALO (French shareholder in person shall cancel any votes cast by proxy or remotely. Journal of Mandatory Legal Announcements). To be taken into account, remote votes or proxy forms must be received by the Company at least three days prior to the date of the Meeting. The Meetings are chaired by the Chairman of the Board of Directors If the Board of Directors so decides when convening the Meeting, or, in his/her absence, by the Vice-Chairman. In the absence of the shareholders voting by proxy or remotely may participate in voting Chairman and the Vice-Chairman, the Shareholders’ Meeting shall using any telecommunication or teletransmission means, including elect a Chairman. the internet, in accordance with the conditions set out in applicable regulations at the time of use. Where an electronic form is submitted, Minutes of the Meeting are prepared and copies are certified and the shareholder’s signature may take the form of a secure signature delivered in accordance with the Law.” or a reliable identification procedure guaranteeing the link with the related action and potentially consisting of a user identification and TWENTY-FIRST RESOLUTION password. Where applicable, this decision of the Board of Directors Powers to carry out formalities shall be communicated in the notice of meeting published in BALO The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance (French Journal of Mandatory Legal Announcements). with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, authorizes the bearer of a copy or extract of the Where a shareholder has given proxy to a third party and has also minutes of this meeting to execute all filing, publication and voted remotely, if there is any difference in the two votes, the remote other formalities required under French law. vote will be taken into account and the proxy ignored. 214 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION 215 9.1 Legal information 216 9.2 Share capital 218 9.3 Corporate governance 223 9.4 Agreements with executive corporate ofﬁcers 229 9.5 Employee proﬁt-sharing and incentive plans 230 9.6 Group management structure 231 9.7 Persons responsible for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements 232 9.8 Person responsible for information 233 9.9 2012 provisional ﬁnancial calendar 234 9.10 Declaration by the person responsible for the Reference Document 235 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 215 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Legal information 9 9.1 Legal information • Information systems development Corporate name and head ofﬁce The Company designs and installs information systems. Its Corporate name: Cap Gemini services include the development of customized software, the Head ofﬁce: 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris installation of software applications available on the market or developed internally, the integration of systems incorporating hardware, communication systems, customized software, Legal form and governing law software packages and other components. The Company also supports clients’ IT projects by providing consulting, project The Company is a société anonyme (joint-stock corporation) management, training and assistance services. governed by the French Companies Act of July 24, 1966 (Law no. 66-537) and Decree no. 67-236 of March 23, 1967 • Outsourcing (as amended by Decree no. 2006-1566 of December 11, 2006). The Company manages all or part of its clients’ IT resources on their behalf. Where requested by clients, the Company may perform all or part of this service using its own hardware, Date of incorporation and term telecommunications systems and other equipment. To prepare and facilitate the IPO on the Paris stock exchange The Company may also manage the IT-based services offered to of Cap Gemini Sogeti (incorporated in 1967) a new company, its clients’ own clientele. In addition, it may work in partnership Cap Gemini, grouping together all investments representing the with clients within a structure conducting all or some of these operating activities of the Group was incorporated on September activities. 17, 1984. This company was registered with the Companies and Trade Registry on October 4, 1984. In order to fulﬁll its corporate purpose, the Company may decide to: The Company was set up for a period of ninety-nine years from the • create specialist subsidiaries or acquire interests in the capital date of its registration with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry. of other companies and manage their business in exchange It may be wound up in advance or have its term extended by for a fee. Management services include the provision of decision of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. technical, marketing, legal and ﬁnancial assistance, promotion of a consistent image, organization of financial structures, assistance in negotiations to help these companies win new Corporate purpose contracts, training, research and development support, etc.; (Article 3 of the bylaws) • invest and manage the Company’s available funds, make cash advances, and provide any and all guarantees or collateral on The Company’s purpose is to assist companies in France behalf of subsidiaries and afﬁliates; and abroad in managing and developing their businesses by • obtain or acquire and use any and all patents and manufacturing providing them with the beneﬁt of its knowledge of their industry, processes and sell, contribute or license any such patents and its know-how in the area of business process engineering and processes. re-engineering, and its expertise in the area of information technologies. In broader terms, the Company’s purpose includes carrying out any and all commercial, industrial, securities, real estate or To fulfill this purpose, the Company carries out on behalf of ﬁnancial transactions related directly or indirectly to any of the clients, either directly, or through its subsidiaries or afﬁliates*, above purposes or any similar or related purpose or which is one or more of the following activities, on an individual or likely to facilitate the fulﬁllment or furtherance of these purposes. integrated basis: • Management consulting Incorporation details Working closely with clients, the Company provides change management assistance to companies by helping them to The Company is registered with the Paris Companies & Trade redefine or redirect their strategy, change their product and Registry (Registre du Commerce et des Sociétés) under number service lines, re-engineer their structures and business processes, 330 703 844. Its APE business identiﬁer is 7010Z. restore staff motivation and achieve other changes. To this end, the Company uses all the possibilities offered by the latest information technologies whenever appropriate. Consultation of legal documents Documents relating to the Company, including the bylaws, the * including Technical Assistance/Local Professional Services ﬁnancial statements, the reports of the Board of Directors (or the performed under the Sogeti tradename and representing the Management Board, the Directoire, from May 24, 1996 through Group’s fourth business. 216 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Legal information 9 May 23, 2000) to the Shareholders’ Meetings, and the Statutory Where a shareholder has given proxy to a third party and has also Auditors’ reports are available for consultation at the Company’s sent in a postal voting form, if there is any difference in the two head ofﬁce at 11, rue de Tilsitt 75017 Paris. votes, the postal vote will be taken into account and the proxy ignored. Fiscal year Disclosure thresholds The Company’s ﬁscal year commences on January 1 and ends on December 31. The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 added specific disclosure obligations to the Company’s bylaws. The bylaws now state that shareholders are required to notify the Appropriation and distribution of income Company if their interest in the Company’s share capital or voting rights is increased to above or reduced to below 1% or any multiple The Shareholders’ Meeting has sole discretionary powers to thereof. In the event of failure to comply with these disclosure decide on the appropriation of distributable income, as deﬁned rules, at the request of one or several shareholders with combined by French company law. Consequently, the Shareholders’ Meeting holdings representing at least 1% of the Company’s share capital may decide to appropriate all or part of distributable income to or voting rights, the undisclosed shares will be stripped of voting revenue reserves, special reserves or retained earnings, or to rights. This sanction will apply for all Shareholders’ Meetings for a distribute all or part of the amount to shareholders. period of two years from the date on which the failure to disclose is rectiﬁed. Such request and the decision of the Shareholders’ The Shareholders’ Meeting also decides the terms and conditions Meeting must be recorded in the minutes of the Meeting. of payment of dividends. In particular, shareholders may be offered a stock dividend alternative, in which case the related dividends will be paid in the form of new shares credited as Shareholder identiﬁcation fully paid, in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The above provisions also apply to the distribution of interim The Company is authorized to obtain details of identiﬁable holders dividends, subject to compliance with French corporate law. of bearer shares. In addition, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute a The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 added dividend out of distributable reserves, subject to compliance with a new article to the Company’s bylaws according to which the French corporate law. Company may request from the share transaction clearing organization, the name, address, nationality and year of birth for an individual or the name, address and date of registration for a Shareholders’ Meetings company, of any holders of shares and securities granting access, immediately or in the future, to shares carrying voting rights at Shareholders may participate in Shareholders’ Meetings in Shareholders’ Meetings. The Company may also obtain details of person, by proxy or by casting a postal vote, subject to submitting how many shares are held by each shareholder and any applicable evidence of their identity and ownership of the shares. Ownership restrictions on these shares. of shares is evidenced by an entry in the Company’s share register in the name of the shareholder (or of the intermediary acting on their behalf if they are domiciled outside France), or in the register Voting rights of bearer shares held by the applicable authorized intermediary. Such entries must be recorded by 12:00 a.m. (Paris time) on the Shares carry voting rights based on the proportion of capital third working day preceding the Meeting and any related notices represented. All shares have the same par value and they therefore must be ﬁled at the address indicated in the notice of meeting. all carry one vote per share. No shares carry double voting rights. Shareholders who have informed the Company that they wish All registered and bearer shares carry one vote per share. to participate in a Meeting in person, by proxy or by casting a postal vote may not alter their method of participation. However, attendance at a Meeting by a shareholder in person shall cancel Changes in share capital and related rights any proxy or postal votes cast. To be taken into account, postal votes or proxy forms must be Changes in the share capital or the rights attached to shares are received by the Company at least three days prior to the date of subject to compliance with French corporate law and the speciﬁc the Meeting. provisions of the bylaws. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 217 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Share capital 9 9.2 Share capital Amount of capital At December 31, 2011, the Company’s share capital amounted to €1,246,162,896, divided into 155,770,362 fully paid-up ordinary shares with a par value of €8 each. Shares may be held in either registered or bearer form, at the shareholder’s discretion. Financial authorizations Existing ﬁnancial authorizations Board of Directors may increase the share capital by a maximum (Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010) par value amount of €500 million (excluding any employee share The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010 authorized issues or capital increases carried out through the capitalization the Board of Directors to carry out various transactions in of reserves). The aggregate maximum amount of authorized respect of the Company’s share capital subject to the limits issues may not exceed €3.5 billion: specified in the table below. Under these authorizations, the Maximum amount Authorization Type of securities (in euros) (1) date Expiry date a) Ordinary shares paid up by capitalizing reserves, 1.5 billion (par value) 05/27/2010 07/27/2012 profit or other eligible amounts b) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 500 million (par value) 05/27/2010 07/27/2012 to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right 3.5 billion (issue amount) to allocation of debt instruments, with PSR c) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the 185 million (par value) 05/27/2010 07/27/2012 share capital of the Company, or granting a right to an 1.25 billion (issue amount) allocation of debt instruments without PSR, public offer d) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 185 million (par value) 05/27/2010 07/27/2012 to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right 1.25 billion (issue amount) to an allocation of debt instruments without PSR, private placement e) Ordinary shares or shares combined with securities 10% of the share capital 05/27/2010 07/27/2012 granting access to the share capital of the Company, as payment for contributions in kind to the Company f) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 185 million (par value) 05/27/2010 07/27/2012 to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right 1.25 billion (issue amount) to an allocation of debt instruments as payment for shares tendered to a public exchange offer made by the Company g) Ordinary shares without PSR 12 million (par value) 05/27/2010 07/27/2012 (French Corporate Savings Act) PSR = Pre-emptive Subscription Rights (1) Recap of overall limits: • a maximum par value amount of €500 million and a maximum issue amount of €3.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights. • including a maximum par value amount of €185 million and a maximum issue amount of €1.25 billion for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights. During ﬁscal year 2011, the Board of Directors did not use any of these delegations of authority, which remain valid until July 27, 2012. 218 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Share capital 9 Other existing ﬁnancial authorizations (Combined • issue redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011) ( B S A A R) to e m p l oye e s o r exe c u t i ve of f i c e r s of t h e The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011 also Group, granting access to a maximum of 1 million shares delegated powers to the Board of Directors authorizing it to: (approximately 0.6% of the Company’s share capital at • carry out a share capital increase via a share issue reserved December 31, 2010) and representing a maximum par value for employees of the Group (both members and non-members amount of €8 million; of Group savings plans). The par value amount of this share • grant performance shares to employees and corporate ofﬁcers capital increase many not exceed €48 million (i.e. 6 million of the Company and its subsidiaries, up to a maximum of shares or slightly less than 4% of the Company’s share capital 1 million shares with a par value of €8 each. at December 31, 2010). The following table summarizes these delegations of authority: Maximum amount Authorization Type of securities (in euros) date Expiry date Ordinary shares issued within the scope of the international employee share ownership plan: a) members of Group savings plans 48 million (par value) (1) 05/26/2011 07/26/2013 b) not restricted to members of Group savings plans, but subject to similar conditions 16 million (par value) (1) 05/26/2011 11/26/2012 Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) 8 million (par value) 05/26/2011 11/26/2012 Performance shares 8 million (par value) 05/26/2011 11/26/2012 (1) The total amount of share capital increases performed pursuant to a) and b) is capped at a par value amount of €48 million. The Board of Directors’ Meeting of February 15, 2012 decided in of Directors to grant performance shares and to issue redeemable principle a share capital increase reserved for Group employees share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) to employees under similar terms and conditions to the transaction performed or executive ofﬁcers of the Group, had not been used at the date in 2009. However, the delegations of authority enabling the Board of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012. Proposed renewal of ﬁnancial authorizations (Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012) The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 is asked to replace the existing delegations of authority with new delegations of authority of the same nature, but with new expiry dates, as summarized in the following table: Maximum amount Authorization Type of securities (in euros) (1) date Expiry date a) Ordinary shares paid up by capitalizing reserves, 1.5 billion (par value) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 profit or other eligible amounts b) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 500 million (par value) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right to 3.5 billion (issue amount) allocation of debt instruments, with PSR c) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the share 185 million (par value) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 capital of the Company, or granting a right to an allocation 1.25 billion (issue amount) of debt instruments without PSR, public offer d) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 185 million (par value) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right to an 1.25 billion (issue amount) allocation of debt instruments without PSR, private placement e) Ordinary shares or shares combined with securities granting 10% of the share capital 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 access to the share capital of the Company, as payment for contributions in kind to the Company f) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 185 million (par value) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right 1.25 billion (issue amount) to an allocation of debt instruments as payment for shares tendered to a public exchange offer made by the Company PSR = Pre-emptive Subscription Rights (1) Recap of overall limits: • a maximum par value amount of €500 million and a maximum issue amount of €3.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights. • including a maximum par value amount of €185 million and a maximum issue amount of €1.25 billion for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 219 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Share capital 9 Accordingly, share capital increases performed pursuant to the in kind granted to the Company or shares tendered to a public delegations of authority which shareholders are asked to grant exchange offer made by the Company; today, would be subject to the following ceilings: The greenshoe option would of course be included in these • a maximum par value amount of €500 million and a maximum ceilings. issue amount of €3.5 billion for all issues, with and without In the event that securities are issued without pre-emptive pre-emptive subscription rights, of securities granting access subscription rights, the Board of Directors may grant to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right to an shareholders a non-transferable priority right to subscribe to allocation of debt instruments. the securities. • and (included in the above ceilings) a maximum par value amount of €185 million, representing approximately 15% of The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 is also the share capital and a maximum issue amount of €1.25 billion asked to replace the existing delegation of authority with a new for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights, that is (i) delegation of authority enabling the Board of Directors to grant issues performed by public offer or private placement at a price performance shares to employees and corporate ofﬁcers of the at least equal to the weighted average price of the Company’s Company and its subsidiaries up to a number of shares with a par shares during the three trading days preceding the date on value of €8 not exceeding 1.5% of the share capital at the date which the price is set, potentially reduced by a discount of up to of grant, as summarized in the following table: 5%, and (ii) issues performed in consideration for contributions Maximum amount Authorization Type of securities (in euros) date Expiry date Performance shares 1.5% of the share capital 05/24/2012 11/24/2013 Conversely, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting is not asked At the end of the two-year period, the deﬁnitive calculation led to to grant new delegations of authority enabling the performance the vesting of only 50% of performance shares initially granted, of share capital issues reserved for employees of the Group and that is, after including shares granted without performance issues of redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants conditions, a maximum of 534,750 shares granted. 200,250 (BSAAR) to employees and corporate ofﬁcers of the Group. of these shares have definitively vested to beneficiaries tax– resident in France, while the remaining balance granted to Share equivalents outstanding foreign beneﬁciaries is subject to their continued presence in Stock option plans the Group on termination of the plan, that is, on March 5, 2013. At the May 23, 2000 and May 12, 2005 Combined Shareholders’ The Shareholders’ Meeting of April 30, 2009 authorized the Meetings, the Board of Directors was given a five-year Board of Directors, for a maximum period of 18 months, to grant authorization in respect of the May 23, 2000 plan (“2000 shares subject to performance and presence conditions to a Plan”), and a 38-month authorization in respect of the May 12, certain number of Group employees. On September 15, 2010, 2005 plan (“2005 Plan”), to grant stock options to certain Group the Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions of this employees on one or more occasions. plan as well as the list of beneﬁciaries. The main features of these plans and their bases of calculation are set out in the tables on pages 135 to 136 and 185 of this Bonds convertible/exchangeable into new or existing reference document. Cap Gemini S.A. shares (OCEANE) On April 8, 2009, Cap Gemini S.A. issued bonds convertible/ Performance share plans exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini shares, The Shareholders’ Meeting of April 17, 2008 authorized the maturing on January 1, 2014. The total amount of the issue was Board of Directors, for a maximum period of 12 months, to grant €575 million, represented by 16,911,765 bonds with a nominal shares subject to performance and presence conditions to a value of €34 each. The terms and conditions of this issue were certain number of Group employees. On March 5, 2009, the set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on April 8, 2009 Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions of this under reference number 09-084. plan as well as the list of beneﬁciaries. The bonds convertible/exchangeable into new or existing The main features of this initial plan are summarized in pages shares issued by Cap Gemini S.A. on June 16, 2005 and 136 to 139 and 186 to 187 of this reference document. maturing January 1, 2012 (OCEANE 2005) are not included in share equivalents outstanding, as the 9,460,810 bonds still outstanding at December 31, 2011 had not been converted at that date. These bonds were redeemed in full on January 2, 2012. 220 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Share capital 9 Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants The warrants may not be exercised or transferred during a (BSAAR) four-year period commencing July 23, 2009, except under the During ﬁscal year 2009, 2,999,000 warrants were subscribed by conditions specified in the issue agreement (primarily in the employees and corporate ofﬁcers of the Group at a price of €3.22 event of a takeover bid for Cap Gemini SA shares). The warrants per warrant. This issue was disclosed in a prospectus approved will be listed and traded on the Euronext Paris market between by the AMF on May 14, 2009 under reference number 09-140. July 23, 2013 and July 22, 2016. Changes in the Company’s share capital over the past ﬁve years Additional paid-in Share capital capital Number of shares (in euros) (in euros) AT DECEMBER 31, 2006 144,081,808 1,152,654,464 5,501,959,280 Issuance costs for shares issued in 2006 (67,499) Share capital increase by conversion of bonds: Shares issued on conversion of OCEANE bonds 1 8 29 Share capital increase for cash: Shares issued on exercise of stock options 1,343,701 10,749,608 23,227,599 AT DECEMBER 31, 2007 145,425,510 1,163,404,080 5,525,119,409 Adjustment to issuance costs for shares issued in 2006 26,207 Share capital increase for cash: Shares issued on exercise of stock options 419,428 3,355,424 6,672,634 AT DECEMBER 31, 2008 145,844,938 1,166,759,504 5,531,818,250 Share capital increase for cash: Shares issued reserved for employees 5,999,999 47,999,992 117,479,980 Issue costs for shares reserved for employees (1,266,628) Shares issued on exercise of stock options 2,332,459 18,659,672 33,472,939 Subscription of redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) Issue of 2,999,000 warrants (BSAAR) 9,656,780 Warrant issue costs charged against additional paid-in capital (863,727) Allocation to legal reserve (6,490,802) AT DECEMBER 31, 2009 154,177,396 1,233,419,168 5,683,806,792 Share capital increase for cash: Shares issued on exercise of stock options 1,592,966 12,743,728 33,595,907 AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 155,770,362 1,246,162,896 5,717,402,699 AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 155,770,362 1,246,162,896 5,717,402,699 Current ownership structure In accordance with Article 10 of the Company’s bylaws, the The ownership structure at December 31, 2011 is presented on companies listed below made the following disclosures to the page 222. No shares carry double voting rights. At December 31, Company during the ﬁscal year: 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. held 2,203,250 of its own shares. • Amundi Asset Management disclosed that it had reduced its At December 31, 2011, there were 1,641 holders of registered interest below the threshold of 4% of the Company’s share shares. capital and voting rights, • International Value Advisers LLC disclosed that it had raised Based on information received by the Company during the its interest above the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share year, no shareholder held, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of capital and voting rights, the Company’s share capital or voting rights at Shareholders’ • Norge Bank’s holding disclosed that it had raised its interest Meetings at the year-end. above the threshold of 2% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights, CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 221 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Share capital 9 • Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations disclosed that it had above and below the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share reduced its interest below the threshold of 1% and then capital and voting rights. On the most recent occasion, it raised its interest above the thresholds of 1% and 2% of the reduced its interest below the threshold of 1% of the Company’s Company’s share capital and voting rights, share capital and voting rights, • Alliance Bernstein L.P. disclosed that it had reduced its interest • UBS disclosed that it had raised and reduced its interest below the thresholds of 4%, 3%, 2% and 1% of the Company’s on numerous occasions (9 in total) above and below the share capital and voting rights, thresholds of 1% and 2% of the Company’s share capital and • Crédit Suisse disclosed that it had raised and reduced its voting rights. On the most recent occasion, it raised its interest interest on numerous occasions (22 in total) above and below above the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and the thresholds of 1% and 2% of the Company’s share capital voting rights, and voting rights. On the most recent occasion, it reduced its interest below the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share Shares held by members of the Board of Directors represent capital and voting rights, 3.6% of the Company’s share capital. • BNP Paribas Asset Management disclosed that it had raised and reduced its interest on numerous occasions (12 in total) Changes in ownership structure over the past three years At December 31, 2009 At December 31, 2010 At December 31, 2011 % % % Number % Share votingNumber % Share votingNumber % Share votingof shares capital rights of shares capital rights of shares capital rights Serge Kampf 5,618,156 3.6 3.6 5,518,156 3.5 3.5 5,365,904 3.4 3.4 Paul Hermelin 187,048 0.1 0.1 202,048 0.1 0.1 227,048 0.1 0.1 Public (1) 140,536,717 91.2 91.2 142,377,580 91.4 91.4 142,745,303 91.7 91.7 (bearer + registered) Employee shareholders 5,714,475 3.7 3.7 5,497,578 3.6 3.6 5,228,857 3.4 3.4 Treasury shares (2) 2,121,000 1.4 1.4 2,175,000 1.4 1.4 2,203,250 1.4 1.4 Own shares TOTAL 154,177,396 100.0 100.0 155,770,362 100.0 100.0 155,770,362 100.0 100.0 (1) Including share capital held by managers. (2) At December 31, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. held 2,203, 250 of its own shares acquired under the share buyback program. In accordance with French corporate law, these shares are stripped of voting rights. The Company does not hold any “own shares” other than those classiﬁed as treasury shares. Based on a study of identiﬁable bearer shares carried out at December 31, 2011, the Company has 65,640 identiﬁable holders of bearer shares holding at least 50 shares. No shares carry double voting rights. Shareholders’ agreements There are no shareholder agreements or pacts in force. 222 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Corporate governance 9.3 Corporate governance 9 To avoid repetition, please refer to the first two parts of the • Minimum number of shares Special Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors for Each director must personally hold at least 100 shares in further details. the Company. Non-voting directors are not subject to this requirement. Board of Directors • Meetings At least six times per year at the head ofﬁce of the Company • Members: 13 directors in Paris (or at any other venue stated in the notice of meeting). The Board met eight times in 2011 (four times during the ﬁrst half and four times during the second half); Directors Attendance rate in 2011: 88% on average, with all absences due to cases of force majeure. • Serge KAMPF • Phil LASKAWY Chairman of the Board • Bernard LIAUTAUD • Vice-Chairman • Daniel BERNARD • Thierry de MONTBRIAL The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010 decided • Yann DELABRIÈRE • Ruud van OMMEREN to add a provision to the Company’s bylaws authorizing the • Laurence DORS • Terry OZAN Board of Directors to appoint a Vice-Chairman from among • Paul HERMELIN • Pierre PRINGUET its members, who, in the absence of the Chairman and for the Vice-Chairman, CEO • Bruno ROGER duration of this absence, will exercise his powers. In particular, • Michel JALABERT the Vice-Chairman’s role will be to chair meetings of the Board of Directors or Shareholders’ Meetings on his behalf. At the end After extensive examination of their personal situations, of this Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors the 10 directors whose names are underlined were considered decided to elect Paul Hermelin as Vice-Chairman while conﬁrming by the Board to be “independent”. him in his functions as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. • Term of ofﬁce: 4 years The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2006 decided, Non-voting directors on the recommendation of the Board of Directors, to reduce the term of ofﬁce of Company directors from six years to four years • Members: 2 non-voting directors (applicable with immediate effect to current terms of ofﬁce). Pierre Hessler Geoff Unwin Of the 13 directors comprising the Board of Directors: • Term of ofﬁce: 2 years two, Messrs. Bernard Liautaud and Pierre Pringuet, were The terms of office of the current two non-voting directors appointed by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 30, (Messrs. Pierre Hessler and Geoff Unwin) were renewed for a 2009. Their terms of ofﬁce will therefore expire the day of the period of two years by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held in the Spring of 2013; May 27, 2010: these two terms of ofﬁce therefore expire today two other directors, Messrs. Daniel Bernard and Thierry de and accordingly the Board of Directors asks shareholders to Montbrial, were appointed for the ﬁrst time by the Combined renew these ofﬁces for a further period of two years. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 12, 2005 and their terms of ofﬁce were renewed for a further 4 years at this same Meeting on April 30, 2009. Their terms of ofﬁce will therefore also expire Internal rules of operation the day of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held in the Spring of 2013; The Board has established and adopted internal rules of eight other directors, Messrs. Yann Delabrière, Paul Hermelin, operation (which it amended on July 26, 2006 and June 9, 2010), Michel Jalabert, Serge Kampf, Phil Laskawy, Ruud van Ommeren, mainly in order to clarify the scope of (and bases for exercising) Terry Ozan, and Bruno Roger, who have been Board members the various powers entrusted to the Board, the specialized for several years, saw their terms of ofﬁce renewed last year Board committees, the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman and the for a period of four years, therefore expiring in the Spring of CEO. It also sets out the list of obligations under the “Code of 2014, the day of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held to Business Ethics” with which directors and non-voting directors approve the 2013 ﬁnancial statements; undertake to comply. the thirteenth director, Mrs. Laurence Dors, was appointed by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting last year to replace Mr. Jean-Rene Fourtou, who did not seek to renew his term of ofﬁce. Her term of ofﬁce will therefore also expire in the Spring of 2014. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 223 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Corporate governance 9 Board committees • Selection & Compensation Committee Chairman: Ruud van Ommeren The general purpose of these committees is to examine or Other directors: Michel Jalabert, Terry Ozan and Pierre Pringuet prepare certain resolutions involving their particular areas Non–voting director: Pierre Hessler of expertise, to draft proposals and to provide opinions or Meetings: ﬁve in 2011, with an average attendance rate of 92% recommendations to the Board with regard to any decisions to • Ethics & Governance Committee be taken. They have no decision-making authority –decisions Chairman: Serge Kampf being taken by the Board of Directors, meeting according to the Other directors: Daniel Bernard and Bruno Roger requisite procedure– and may not treat subjects outside their Meetings: three in 2011, with an average attendance rate of own ﬁelds of competence. 100% • Strategy & Investments Committee There are four specialized Board committees: Chairman: Bernard Liautaud • Audit Committee Other directors: Daniel Bernard, Laurence Dors, Paul Hermelin, Chairman: Yann Delabrière Thierry de Montbrial and Bruno Roger Other directors: Michel Jalabert, Phil Laskawy and Pierre Non–voting director: Geoff Unwin Pringuet Meetings: four in 2011, with an average attendance rate Meetings: six in 2011, with an average attendance rate of 79% of 100%. 224 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Corporate governance 9 List of directorships and other ofﬁces held by members of the Board of Directors Directorships and other ofﬁces held by the 13 voting members of the Board of Directors are as follows: First appointment and expiry* of term of Other offices held during the Members of the Board office Offices held in 2011 and current offices last five years outside the Group Serge KAMPF 2000-2013 Principal office Director of: Date of birth: October 13, 1934 Chairman of the Board of Directors of: • SANOFI-AVENTIS S.A. • CAP GEMINI S.A. Member of the Selection, Other offices Remuneration and Corporate Chairman of: Governance Committee of: • Capgemini Service S.A.S. • SANOFI-AVENTIS S.A. Number of shares held at • Capgemini Suisse S.A. December 31, 2011 Director of: Member of the Académie 5,365,904 • Capgemini North America Inc. (U.S.A.) des Sports Daniel BERNARD 2005-2012 Principal office None Date of birth: October 18, 1946 Chairman of: • PROVESTIS Other offices Chairman of the Board of Directors of: • KINGFISHER plc • MAF Retail Group Director of: • ALCATEL LUCENT Chairman of: Number of shares held at • The HEC Foundation December 31, 2011 Senior Advisor de: 150 • TowerBrook Capital Partners, L.P. Yann DELABRIERE 2004-2013 Principal office Member of the Executive Date of birth: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Committee and Chief Financial December 19, 1950 • FAURECIA Officer of: • PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: • Banque PSA FINANCE • CREDIPAR (Compagnie Générale de Crédit aux Particuliers) Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: • PEUGEOT FINANCE INTERNATIONAL NV Chairman of the Board of Directors of: • PEUGEOT CITROËN ARGENTINE • PERGOLESE INVESTISSEMENTS Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of: • PSA INTERNATIONAL Director of: • PEUGEOT CITROËN AUTOMOBILES • AUTOMOBILES CITROËN • GEFCO Manager (Gérant) of: • GIE PEUGEOT CITROEN Finance et Comptabilité Number of shares held at (Belgium) December 31, 2011 • PSA Services S.R.L. (Italy) 2,550 * at the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements of the year concerned. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 225 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Corporate governance 9 First appointment and expiry* of term of Other offices held during the Members of the Board office Offices held in 2011 and current offices last five years outside the Group Laurence DORS 2010-2013 Principal office Corporate Secretary of: Date of birth: March 16, 1956 Independent Director • EADS Other offices Senior Executive Vice-President Director of: Member of the Executive • Crédit Agricole SA Committee of: • EGIS SA • Dassault Systèmes Corporate Secretary Number of shares held at Member of the Executive December 31, 2011 Committee of: 100 • Renault Group Paul HERMELIN 2000-2013 Principal office None Date of birth: April 30, 1952 Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: • CAP GEMINI S.A. Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini Group Other offices Chairman of: • Camélia Participations SAS (FRANCE) • Capgemini America, Inc. (U.S.A) • Capgemini US LLC (U.S.A) • Capgemini North America Inc. (U.S.A.) • Capgemini Holding Inc. (U.S.A.) • Capgemini Energy GP LLC (U.S.A) Chief Executive Officer of: • Capgemini Service S.A.S. • Capgemini North America Inc. (U.S.A.) • Capgemini Holding Inc. (U.S.A) Director of: • CGS Holdings Ltd (UK) • SOGETI S.A. (BELGIUM) • Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd • Capgemini Financial Services International Inc. Number of shares held at • CPM BRAXIS S.A. (BRAZIL) December 31, 2011 Member of the Supervisory Board of: 227,048 • Capgemini N.V. Michel JALABERT 2000-2013 Principal office None Date of birth: January 20, 1933 Director of: • CAP GEMINI S.A. Number of shares held at December 31, 2011 Other offices 425 None Phil LASKAWY 2002-2013 Principal office Director of: Date of birth: March 31, 1941 Non-Executive Chairman of: • THE PROGRESSIVE • FANNIE MAE (U.S.A) CORPORATION Director of: • DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES • GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION Other offices Director of: Number of shares held at • HENRY SCHEIN, INC. December 31, 2011 • LAZARD LTD 7,600 • LOEWS CORPORATION * at the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements of the year concerned. 226 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Corporate governance 9 First appointment and expiry* of term of Other offices held during the Members of the Board office Offices held in 2011 and current offices last five years outside the Group Bernard LIAUTAUD 2009-2012 Principal office Co-founder in 1990 of: Date of birth: June 17, 1962 General Partner of: • BUSINESS OBJECTS • BALDERTON CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (BCM) (UK) Chairman and Chief Executive Other offices Officer of: Member of the Supervisory Board of: • BUSINESS OBJECTS • SAP Director of: • CLINICAL SOLUTION (UK) • NLYTE SOFTWARE LTD (UK) • TALEND SA • QUICKBRIDGE (UK) • SCYTL (Spain) Number of shares held at • ABIQUO GROUP INC. (USA) December 31, 2011 • VESTIAIRE DE COPINES S.A. 200 • DASHLANE INC (USA) Thierry de MONTBRIAL 2005-2012 Principal office Member of: Date of birth: March 3, 1943 Founder and Chief Executive Officer of: • LAFARGE INTERNATIONAL • L’INSTITUT FRANÇAIS DES RELATIONS ADVISORY BOARD INTERNATIONALES (IFRI) • OCP GROUP (Morocco) INTERNATIONAL ADVISORY Other offices BOARD Chairman of: • RUSAL INTERNATIONAL • CENTRE FRANCO-AUTRICHIEN POUR LE ADVISORY BOARD RAPPROCHEMENT ÉCONOMIQUE EN EUROPE • WOPYCO SAS Emeritus Professor at: • CONSERVATOIRE NATIONAL DES ARTS ET METIERS Number of shares held at Member of: December 31, 2011 • L’INSTITUT DE FRANCE (ACADÉMIE DES 100 SCIENCES MORALES ET POLITIQUES) Ruud van OMMEREN 2000-2013 Principal office Chairman of the Supervisory Date of birth: September 11, Director of: Board of: 1936 • CAP GEMINI S.A. • GAK ONROEREND GOED V.O.F. Member of the Supervisory Other offices Board of: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: • KONINKLIJKE GROLSCH N.V. Number of shares held at • Capgemini N.V. December 31, 2011 Member of the Supervisory Board of: 100 • WILLEM VAN RIJN B.V. Terry OZAN 2000-2013 Principal office Director of: Date of birth: July 21, 1946 Director of: • KANISA Corporation • CAP GEMINI S.A. • NOTEWORTHY MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. Other offices Director of: • COHESANT INC. Number of shares held at • TFS FINANCIAL CORPORATION December 31, 2011 Member of the Strategy Committee of: 24,300 • STATE INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS * at the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements of the year concerned. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 227 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Corporate governance 9 First appointment and expiry* of term of Other offices held during the Members of the Board office Offices held in 2011 and current offices last five years outside the Group Pierre PRINGUET 2009-2012 Principal office Joint Chief Executive Officer and Date of birth: January 31, 1950 Chief Executive Officer and Director of: sole Managing Director of: • Groupe PERNOD RICARD • Groupe PERNOD RICARD Number of shares held at Other offices December 31, 2011 Director of: 1,700 • ILIAD S.A. Bruno ROGER 2000-2013 Principal office Non–voting director: Date of birth: August 6, 1933 Chairman of: • EURAZEO • LAZARD FRERES S.A.S. • COMPAGNIE FINANCIERE LAZARD FRERES SAS Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: • LAZARD FRERES BANQUE Other offices Chairman de: • GLOBAL INVESTMENT BANKING of LAZARD Managing Partner of: • LAZARD FRERES • MAISON LAZARD ET CIE Number of shares held at Member of the Deputy Chairman December 31, 2011 Committee of: 100 • LAZARD FRERES GROUP * at the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements of the year concerned. As far as the Company is aware, none of the current members As far as the Company is aware, there are no: of the Board of Directors: • conflicts of interest among the members of the Board of • has been found guilty of fraud at any time during the last ﬁve Directors between their duties towards Cap Gemini S.A. and years; their private interests and/or any other duties; • has been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation • service contracts between the members of the Board of at any time during the last ﬁve years; Directors and Cap Gemini S.A. or any of its subsidiaries that • has been subject to any form of ofﬁcial public sanction and/ provide for the granting of beneﬁts upon termination thereof. or criminal liability, pronounced by a statutory or regulatory authority (including designated professional bodies); • has been disqualiﬁed by a court from acting as a member of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an issuer or from participating in the management or conduct of the affairs of any issuer at any time during the last ﬁve years. 228 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Agreements with executive corporate ofﬁcers 9.4 Agreements with executive corporate 9 ofﬁcers This information is provided in the Management Repor t presented by the Board of Directors at the C ombined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 (“Compensation of the two Executive Corporate Ofﬁcers”, page 78). Regulated agreements with related parties No agreements falling within the scope of Article L.225-38 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) were authorized by the Board of Directors in the year ended December 31, 2011. Loans and guarantees granted to directors and managers of the Company None. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 229 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Employee proﬁt-sharing and incentive plans 9 9.5 Employee proﬁt-sharing and incentive plans Proﬁt-sharing and incentive plan agreements All the French companies in the Group have signed employee proﬁt-sharing agreements in accordance with French law. Stock options Stock options granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate ofﬁcers) having received/exercised the greatest number of options are as follows: Stock options granted to/exercised by the ten employees Total number of (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest stock options Weighted average number of shares granted/exercised price Plan number Options granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees of all eligible companies having received the greatest n/a n/a n/a number of shares Options exercised (held previously on Cap Gemini S.A.), by the ten Group employees having exercised the greatest number of n/a n/a n/a shares Performance shares Performance shares granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate ofﬁcers) having received the greatest number of options and the number of performance shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate ofﬁcers) holding the greatest number of vested shares are as follows: Total number of Performance shares granted/vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having shares vested / received the greatest number of shares granted Plan number Performance shares granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten n/a n/a employees of all eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares Shares available (held previously on Cap Gemini S.A.) by the ten Group employees 57,500 1 st Plan holding the greatest number of vested shares 230 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Group management structure 9.6 Group management structure 9 The Group management structure comprises: • an Executive Committee with 14 members: Paul Hermelin Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Pierre-Yves Cros Consulting (Capgemini Consulting) Alain Donzeaud General Secretary Nicolas Dufourcq Deputy General Manager, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Cyril Garcia Strategy and Transformation Hubert Giraud Business Process Outsourcing Philippe Grangeon Marketing and Communications Aruna Jayanthi India Aymar de Lencquesaing Development Paul Nannetti Global Sales and Portfolio Patrick Nicolet Infrastructure Services Salil Parekh Application Services One Luc-François Salvador Local Professional Services (Sogeti) Olivier Sevillia Application Services Two • and Group directors who report directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Philippe Christelle Internal Audit Lanny Cohen Large Accounts United States Navin Goel Large Accounts Latin America Christine Hodgson Large Accounts United Kingdom Andy Mulholland Technology Innovation Michael Schulte Large Accounts Germany CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 231 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Persons responsible for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements 9 9.7 Persons responsible for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements Principal Statutory Auditors: • PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Compte de Versailles 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex represented by Serge VILLEPELET First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 1996. Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2013 ﬁnancial statements. • KPMG S.A. member of the Compagnie régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes de Versailles Immeuble le Palatin, 3, cours du Triangle, 92939 Paris La Défense Cedex, represented by Jean-Luc DECORNOY First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002. Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2013 ﬁnancial statements. Substitute Statutory Auditors: • Etienne BORIS 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex Substitute for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 17, 2008. Term of ofﬁce expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2013 ﬁnancial statements. • Bertrand VIALATTE 1, cours Valmy, 92923 Paris la Défense Cedex Substitute for KPMG S.A., Appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 17, 2008. Term of ofﬁce expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2013 ﬁnancial statements. Fees paid by the Group to the Statutory Auditors and members of their networks KPMG PwC Amount % Amount % In thousands of euros 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Audit Statutory audit, certification of the consolidated and seperate 2,239 2,116 73% 56% 3,040 2,605 55% 54% financial statements Issuer 348 345 11% 9% 441 338 8% 7% Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 1,891 1,771 62% 47% 2,599 2,267 47% 47% Other services directly related 86 857 3% 23% 806 426 15% 9% to the statutory audit engagement (1) Issuer 0 779 0% 21% 293 410 5% 8% Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 86 78 3% 2% 513 16 9% 0% SUB-TOTAL 2,325 2,973 76% 79% 3,847 3,031 70% 62% Other services Legal, tax and employee-related advisory 246 229 8% 6% 210 97 4% 2% services Other (2) 491 553 16% 15% 1,460 1,724 26% 36% SUB-TOTAL 737 783 24% 21% 1,670 1,821 30% 38% TOTAL 3,062 3,756 100% 100% 5,517 4,852 100% 100% (1) Fees presented in other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement mainly consist of buyer due diligence procedures. (2) The majority of these fees concern assignments performed at the request of our customers pursuant to the standard ISAE 34-02 and concern the audit of applications and/or processes outsourced to the Group. 232 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Person responsible for information 9.8 Person responsible for information 9 Nicolas DUFOURCQ Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 PARIS Tel.: +33 (0)1 47 54 50 00 CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 233 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION 2012 provisional ﬁnancial calendar 9 9.9 2012 provisional ﬁnancial calendar First quarter 2012 revenue: May 10, 2012 First half 2012 results: July 26, 2012 Third quarter 2012 revenue: November 8, 2012 2012 Results: February 14, 2013 This provisional calendar is provided for information purposes only and may be subject to subsequent amendments. 234 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 9. SPECIFIC INFORMATION Declaration by the person responsible for the Reference Document 9.10 Declaration by the person responsible 9 for the Reference Document I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information contained in the reference document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the ﬁnancial statements for 2011 have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and results of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, and that the Management Report presented in section 4 gives a fair description of the material events, results and ﬁnancial position of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company may be confronted. I obtained a statement from the Statutory Auditors at the end of their engagement afﬁrming that they have read the whole of the reference document and examined the information in respect of the ﬁnancial position and the historical accounts contained therein. The statement from the Statutory Auditors is not qualiﬁed and does not contain any observations”. Paul Hermelin, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer The French version of this Reference Document (Document de Reference) was ﬁled with the Autorite des Marchés Financiers (AMF) on April 26, 2012, pursuant to Article 212-13 of the AMF’s General Regulations. It may be used in connection with a ﬁnancial transaction if it is accompanied by an Information Memorandum approved by the AMF. This document was prepared by the issuer and engages the responsibility of its signatories. In accordance with Article 28 of European Regulation no. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004, the following information is incorporated by reference in this reference document: 1. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2010: the management report, consolidated ﬁnancial statements and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, set out in the reference document ﬁled on May 3, 2011 under no. D.11-0442 (pages 73 to 93 and 117 to 180, respectively). the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company ﬁnancial statements set out in the reference document ﬁled on May 3, 2011 under no. D.11-0442 (pages 181 to 201 and 202, respectively). the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments, set out in the reference document ﬁled on May 3, 2011 under no. D.11-0442 (page 203). 2. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2009: the management report, consolidated ﬁnancial statements and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, set out in the reference document ﬁled on May 4, 2010 under no. D.10-0401 (pages 62 to 80 and 82 to 153, respectively). the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company ﬁnancial statements set out in the reference document ﬁled on May 4, 2010 under no. D.10-0401 (pages 154 to 174 and 175, respectively). the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments, set out in the reference document ﬁled on May 4, 2010 under no. D.10-0401 (page 176). The information included in these two reference documents, other than that referred to above, has been replaced and/or updated where necessary, with information included in this reference document. Copies of the reference document are available from Cap Gemini S.A., 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris, on its corporate website at http://investor.capgemini.com, and on the website of the AMF at www.amf-france.org. CAPGEMINI 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 235 236 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI 10. CROSSREFERENCE TABLE 10. CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 237 10.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no. 809/2004 238 10.2 Information required in the Annual Financial Report 238 http://www.capgemini.com/investor/welcome/ 237 10. CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 10 10.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no. 809/2004 PAGE 1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 233 and 235 2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 232 3 SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 5 4 RISK FACTORS 26 to 29, 85, 139, 146, 154 to 156 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER History and development of the Company 8 Legal information concerning the Company 216 to 217 Investments 25, 122 to 123, 128 to 130, 140 to 143 6 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Principal activities 9 to 10, 13 to 15 Principal markets 11 to 12 The IT services market and competition 11 to 12 7 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Brief description of the Group and position of issuer 23 to 24 List of signiﬁcant subsidiaries 173 to 175 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 23 9 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 69 to 76 10 CAPITAL RESOURCES Information concerning the issuer’s capital resources 76, 135 to 139 Explanation of the sources and amounts of, and a description of, the issuer’s cash ﬂows 118, 152 to 154 Borrowing requirements and funding structure and information regarding any restrictions on the use of capital resources 147 to 152, 170 to 171 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES N/A 12 TREND INFORMATION 74 13 PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES 74 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 223 to 228, 231 15 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 78 to 82, 99,172 16 BOARD PRACTICES 91 to 98 17 EMPLOYEES Number of employees 40 to 46, 71, 170 Employee shareholdings and stock options 77, 135 to 139, 220 to 221, 230 18 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 30, 221 to 222 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 23, 172 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES Historical ﬁnancial information 5, 235 Financial statements 113 to 175 Auditing of historical annual ﬁnancial information 114, 198, 235 Dividend policy 32, 76, 217 Legal proceedings and arbitration 28 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share capital 76, 218 to 222 Memorandum and articles of association 216 to 217 22 MATERIAL CONTRACTS 16 to 17 23 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND STATEMENT BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST N/A 24 DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 216 to 217 25 INFORMATION ON SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS 196 N/A: Not applicable. 10.2 Information required in the Annual Financial Report PAGE DECLARATION BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REFERENCE DOCUMENT 235 MANAGEMENT REPORT 69 to 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113 to 175 238 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAPGEMINI PRODUCTION: www.capgemini.com
