United Nation Global Compact Communications on Progress 26 March 2012 Royal Bafokeng Holdings General Period Covered by this Communications on Progress (COP) From: 23 February 2011 To: 23 February 2012 Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to confirm that Royal Bafokeng Holdings reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to:  Human Rights;  Labour;  Environment, and  Anti-corruption. This Communication on Progress Report serves to describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the principles, as endorsed by the UNGC, into our business strategy, decision-making processes and all areas of operation. Royal Bafokeng Holdings commit to share this information with all our stakeholders through the appropriate channels of communication. Lucas Ndala Acting CEO Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Royal Bafokeng Holdings supports the democratic values of human dignity, equality and freedom as contained in South Africa’s Constitution. Employment Equity Royal Bafokeng Holdings acknowledges the value that employees from diverse backgrounds bring and add to the achievement of the company’s goals and objectives, and is fully committed to the objectives of the Employment Equity Act (Act No. 55 of 1998). Royal Bafokeng Holdings further commits to:  Elimination of Unfair Discrimination;  Equal Opportunities, and  Valuing Diversity. Box 1: Employment Equity Act Purpose of the Act 2. The purpose of the Act is to achieve equity in the workplace by (a) promoting equal opportunity and fair treatment in employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination (b) implementing affirmative action measures to redress the disadvantages in employment experienced by designated groups, in order to ensure their equitable representation in all occupational categories and levels in the workforce. Positive Discrimination Black Economic Empowerment Royal Bafokeng Holdings strives to maintain a level 1 rating in terms of the BBBEE Codes of Good Practice and continuously engages with investee companies to achieve group wide alignment with the transformation strategy. Preferential Procurement Royal Bafokeng Holdings, its subsidiary companies and partner companies are committed to the procurement of goods and services from previously disadvantaged South Africans. RBH further intends to promote the development and growth of SMME’s in its approach to preferential procurement. Investment RBH applies a process of negative screening based on the approved exclusion list. The RBH Exclusion List defines the types of investments that will not be considered. A reasonableness test will be applied. RBH will not invest, either directly or indirectly, in companies or projects that are involved in:  Production or trade in any product or activity deemed illegal under host country laws or regulations or international conventions and agreements.  Production or trade in weapons and munitions1.  Production or trade in alcoholic beverages (excluding beer and wine)1.  Production or trade in tobacco1.  Gambling, casinos and equivalent enterprises1.  Trade in wildlife or wildlife products regulated under CITES2.  Production or trade in radioactive materials3.  Production or trade in or use of unbonded asbestos fibers4.  Purchase of logging equipment for use in primary tropical moist forest.  Production or trade in pharmaceuticals subject to international phase outs or bans.  Production or trade in pesticides/herbicides subject to international phase outs or bans.  Drift net fishing in the marine environment using nets in excess of 2.5 km. in length.  Production or activities involving harmful or exploitative forms of forced labor5/harmful child labor6  Production or trade in products containing PCBs7.  Production or trade in ozone depleting substances subject to international phase out8. 1 This does not apply to companies who are not substantially involved in these activities. Not substantially involved means that the activity concerned is ancillary to that company’s primary operations. 2 CITES: Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. 3 This does not apply to the purchase of medical equipment, quality control (measurement) equipment and any equipment where RBH considers the radioactive source to be trivial and/or adequately shielded. 4 This does not apply to the purchase and use of bonded asbestos cement sheeting where the asbestos content is less than 20%. 5 Forced labor means all work or service, not voluntarily performed, that is extracted from an individual under threat of force or penalty. 6 Harmful child labor means the employment of children that is economically exploitive, or is likely to be hazardous to, or to interfere with, the child's education, or to be harmful to the child's health, or physical, mental, spiritual, moral, or social development. 7 PCBs: Polychlorinated biphenyls a group of highly toxic chemicals. PCBs are likely to be found in oil-filled electrical transformers, capacitors and switchgear dating from 1950-1985. 8 Ozone Depleting Substances (ODSs): Chemical compounds which react with and deplete stratospheric ozone, resulting in the widely publicized 'ozone holes'. The Montreal Protocol lists ODSs and their target reduction and phase out dates. The chemical compounds regulated by the Montreal Protocol include aerosols, refrigerants, foam blowing agents, solvents, and fire protection agents.  Production or activities that impinge on the lands owned, or claimed under adjudication, by Indigenous Peoples, without full documented consent of such peoples. Implementation The Board is ultimately responsible for the RBH group compliance with Board approved policies. In this task, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to management. These policies encourage ethical behaviour of each individual separately as well as collectively as management groups. The Board should ensure that its conduct and that of management aligns to the values and is adhered to in all aspects of the business. The Chief Executive Officer has overall management responsibility for ensuring that the company complies with the applicable laws, the Board Charter policies regarding corporate governance and the company’s code of ethics. Shortcomings and exceptions permitted in law must be handled ethically. The Company Secretary is responsible for the preparation for and the holding of Board meetings and the AGM. The company believes that it is the responsibility of every employee of RBH to observe and implement the company’s governance policies. The approval framework, delegation of authority and internal guidelines of RBH establish the responsibility for compliance at every level of the RBH group. Internal control processes are in place to ensure compliance. RBH has established an internal audit function through the services of an external service provider to ensure a risk-based internal audit function, which is informed by the strategy of the company. This function spans financial, operational and compliance matters. The Audit and Risk Management Committee is responsible for overseeing the Internal Audit function, which reports at every committee meeting. Investment RBH has factored ESG considerations into the investment process and into influencing investee company management through the following:  RBH already undertakes a high-level social and environmental due diligence process of all target investee companies. We intend to formalise this process further, ensuring that investment decision-making promotes the recently board-approved Sustainability Strategy and as a method to identify risk and liability;  RBH applies a negative screening process to new investments which excludes investments in companies that conduct business in a manner regarded as in conflict with RBH’s ethical standards;  RBH promotes governance best practices in all investee companies. Moreover, RBH encourages the establishment of sustainable development committees in its investee companies, where these do not already exist; and  RBH aims to influence its investee companies to act in compliance with legislation and to develop programmes and initiatives that contribute positively to the development of the Bafokeng and others. Monitoring of outcomes RBH transformation Scorecard 2011 Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals Work environment free of harassment and discrimination RBH is committed to providing a work environment that is free of any form of sexual or other harassment, whether it be harassment by an employee of another employee or harassment by an employee of a customer or supplier or vice-versa. RBH is committed to ensuring that each employee is treated with fairness and dignity; accordingly, any discriminatory practice based on race, colour, sex, age, religion, ethnic or national origin, disability or any other unlawful basis will not be tolerated. The company seeks to provide employees with equal opportunity for advancement without discrimination. However, distinguishing between individuals based on the aptitudes or qualifications required for a particular employment does not constitute discrimination. An employee who believes he or she has been a victim of, or a witness to, a situation involving harassment or discrimination is required to immediately report that situation to a member of the Executive Committee. All such reports are treated as confidential. Occupational Health and Safety RBH makes every effort to provide employees with a healthy and safe work environment, to conduct regular inspections to eliminate any dangerous conditions or behaviour and their causes, and to develop programmes dedicated to employee safety and well-being. RBH abide by the company's standards in safety matters, endeavour to maintain a healthy and safe work environment and take the necessary steps to ensure our own safety and the safety of others. Employment Equity (Refer to the previous section – Human Rights – Employment Equity) Investment Refer to previous section (Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals – Investment). Implementation Refer to previous section (Human Rights Implementation). Monitoring of Outcomes Royal Bafokeng has received no grievances of complaints from employees related to discrimination and/or harassment. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals Royal Bafokeng Holdings’ primary responsibility in terms of sustainable development is to act as a responsible investor. Royal Bafokeng Holdings does not invest in companies which have an unmanageable direct impact on the environment or on affected communities. Royal Bafokeng Holdings aims to strategically influence investee companies to develop programmes and initiatives that contribute to the protection and improvement of the environment, and a better and more sustainable society. Royal Bafokeng Holdings encourages all their investee companies to develop environmentally sustainable practices and to implement management systems in order to ensure environmental, health & safety legal compliance, minimise their footprint and increase efficiency. Royal Bafokeng Holdings promotes a culture of environmental and social accountability and aims to strategically support such behaviours in investee companies. Implementation Investment and Management Objectives The sustainable investment objectives are achieved through:  Undertaking a due diligence process of all target investee companies as part of a systematic method of identifying risks and liabilities as well as to assess the investee target against financial and ESG investment criteria.  Taking a position of Active Ownership through including in the shareholders agreement, the nomination of one or more directors to the boards of Royal Bafokeng Holdings investee companies in the acquisition of a controlling or influential stake, to participate in and influence the investee company’s strategic management. Disinvestment Royal Bafokeng Holdings may consider disinvestment in the event that:  An investee company does not meet the set financial performance criteria.  An investee company fails to meet ESG investment criteria.  Royal Bafokeng Holdings becomes aware that an investee company is participating in exclusion activities as listed in this policy. Disinvestment is regarded as a “last resort”. Royal Bafokeng Holdings will, prior to considering disinvestment, follow a procedure for rectification. Process of Investment Decision-Making Royal Bafokeng Holdings commits to the following:  Royal Bafokeng Holdings will, through informal engagements, assess the nature of the target to determine the potential feasibility of the investment. Including, but not limited to, financial, environmental, social and corporate governance considerations.  Royal Bafokeng Holdings will not consider making investments listed in the Royal Bafokeng Holdings exclusion list.  Consideration of overall portfolio requirements will include diversification, risk, investment size and growth potential. The assessment of risk will include the environmental and social risks associated with the target company including, but not limited to, the level of legal compliance, risk mitigation strategies and the degree of ESG consideration in the business strategy and decision-making processes.  Financial modelling to calculate fair value and expected return. The financial modelling considers the environmental and social cost associated with the target operations / business and well as the determination of environmental and social risks and liabilities (financial and nonfinancial).  SWOT Analysis to ensure the consideration of financial, environmental, social and governance strengths weaknesses, opportunities, and threats.  The considerations of the target’s governance and management integrity through evaluating compliance with King III, ESG Principles and Sustainability Development Objectives.  Include in the agreement with target investee, the required implementation, the principles of responsible investment and management adopted by the Royal Bafokeng Holdings and the degree of active ownership.  Consider the appointment of external advisors, depending on internal resources’ availability and knowledge of the industry, complexity of negotiations and business. Negative Screening in term of Responsible Investment Policy Screening Undertake Due Diligence to identifying ESG risks and liabilities Due Diligence Buy / Sell / Hold after consideration of ESG, Financial and Business Performance Decision Level of active ownership, improvements, adherence to policies and guidelines Agreement Continuous Improvement Monitoring of identified performance indicators and reporting Monitoring Monitoring of Outcomes An integrated monitoring and reporting framework has been developed during 2011 and will be implemented during the course of 2012. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Royal Bafokeng Holdings has a reputation for honesty and integrity in its management practices and in all its business transactions. It is vital for the company and each of its subsidiaries, and for each one of us, that we preserve this reputation and maintain the relationship of trust that must exist with all the individuals and companies with whom we have dealings. In varying degrees, we are all the custodians of Royal Bafokeng Holding’s reputation. This code of conduct applies to all directors, executives and employees of Royal Bafokeng Holdings. It is designed to help us understand our ethical and legal obligations in handling the company's business. Although this code of conduct does not cover every issue that may arise, it is intended to establish guidelines to which we can refer in situations where the proper course of conduct may not seem clear. The guidelines set out in this code of conduct are mandatory and, as such, must be observed by every one of us at all times. A member of the Executive Committee can advise and help make the appropriate decisions concerning our conduct at work and in business. Compliance with laws  Royal Bafokeng Holdings and its employees are committed to comply with every local, state, national, international or foreign law or regulation that applies to the company's business.  Royal Bafokeng Holdings is committed to strict observance of any applicable competition and antitrust laws and to the avoidance of any conduct that could be considered illegal.  Royal Bafokeng Holdings will comply with the anti-corruption laws of the countries in which it does business.  Royal Bafokeng Holdings also ascertain that any agents we engage to conduct business on our behalf are reputable and that they also will comply with these guidelines. Trading in the Securities of Listed Companies associated with RBH  Royal Bafokeng Holdings recognise that the purchase of securities of any corporation listed on a stock exchange entails a certain risk and that the decision to acquire any listed shares is strictly a personal one.  Before Royal Bafokeng Holdings conclude any trade involving securities of a listed company, due consideration in given to securities laws which contain prohibitions concerning the use of privileged or inside information. Conflict of Interest Royal Bafokeng Holdings recognises that we all have our own individual interests and encourages the development of these interests, especially where they are beneficial to the community at large. In terms of the Royal Bafokeng Holdings Code of Conduct; Royal Bafokeng Holdings and/or its employees will not directly or through any family members of or other associated persons, or in any other manner:  Have any financial interests that could have a negative impact on the performance of our duties, or derive any financial benefit from any contract between the company and a third party where we are in a position to influence the decisions that are taken regarding that contract; or  Attempt to influence any decision of the company concerning any matter with a view to deriving any direct or indirect personal benefit. In terms of the Code of conduct Royal Bafokeng Holdings and/or its employees is prohibited from deriving personal benefit conferred on employees by persons who deal or seek to deal with the company. Consequently, accepting any personal benefit, such as a sum of money, a gift, a loan, services, pleasure trips or vacations, special privileges or living accommodations or lodgings, with the exception of promotional items of minimal value, is forbidden. Royal Bafokeng Holdings promote fair dealings through committing to the preservation of the quality of stakeholder relations and maintaining business relationships that are based on integrity, fairness and mutual respect. Royal Bafokeng Holdings and/or its employees are prohibited from offering gifts or granting favours outside the ordinary course of business to any current / prospective partners, agents or other persons with whom the company has a current or possible future contractual relationship. In terms of supplier relationships; suppliers of the company are chosen based on objective criteria and suppliers are treated justly, fairly and honestly. Implementation Refer to previous section (Human Rights Implementation). Monitoring of Outcomes Management is responsible for the implementation of internal control systems and appropriate risk management processes. The group has external auditors, PWC, who are responsible for external audit and issue an audit report on fi nancial statements. The group has also appointed Sekela Consultants to review and recommend improvements to internal controls. The group has also undertaken a comprehensive risk assessment and rating of the various risks affecting the business. Internal audit will incorporate the risk register into their internal audit plan and monitor its management. The group endeavours to comply and implement best practice as far as possible.
