2011/2012 Progress Report (Global Compact Charter) As part of the ratification and application of the Global Compact Charter, Rémy Cointreau is keeping its commitments relative to its aim to be the ambassador of good practices in this global pact in the field of human rights, working standards, the environment and the fight against corruption. As a member of the French Global Compact Network Association for several years, Rémy Cointreau observes and regularly transmits the charter's ten principles to its employees and partners. The notion of social and environmental responsibility is thus conveyed throughout the company, and upstream and downstream of its scope, to its customers, suppliers and stakeholders. A Corporate and Environmental Responsibility Policy, inseparable from our value strategy Economic strategy and CER policy are intimately linked to all aspects of our business. We ensure our economic development, protection of natural resources, and promote talent with the same rigour and creativity. Our CER strategy relies daily on a policy implemented at local and international level. We implement our commitments as much on our production sites as in our business practices: progressing determinedly and continuously improving our practices. A voluntary and transparent CER policy The transparency of the information we report is without a doubt the best evidence of our commitment to a tangible and realistic CER policy. This year for the first time, a selection of environmental indicators was audited by an external third party, which was no other than the Ernst & Young teams specialising in Environment and Sustainable Development. Year after year our CER policy is sustainable and always highly consistent with our strategy. Its solid structure consolidates our commitments and now enables us to commit to specific objectives. 1 For example, by anticipating legislation: concerning greenhouse gas emissions (GHE), we began evaluating them on our sites a few years ago, and this has enabled us to reduce our carbon footprint even before the Grenelle Environment Round Table texts were published. From then on our actions have been based around indicators and objectives defined in the Group's full carbon footprint, and in the next GHE reduction plan. More generally, we believe that regulatory constraints must be seen as driving forces for increased rigour. By anticipating legislation, we prepare and raise awareness among our teams while encouraging growth of the company. This year we devised our business ethics code, a major event in the field of CER governance. It provides the Group with a unique reference document which combines the rules of conduct defined by all departments at Rémy Cointreau, CER commitments and international guidelines to which we adhere, such as the Global Compact. In six main chapters, the code of ethics discusses our commitments to:  behavioural principles (including notably questions of conflict of interest or corruption),  observance of environmental and work standards integrating current standards,  protection of privacy,  self-regulation of practices, in terms of responsible communication, consumption and commitments towards our customers and suppliers,  observance of laws,  and finally protection of assets. This draft, launched by general management, is for all employees, in all countries in which the Group is located. The document will be translated into English, French and Chinese, and will then be extended to all languages spoken within the Group. Employees will be familiarised with the document in 2012/2013 so that it can be used as an internal guideline. For the code of ethics to be applied by all, a mechanism of control and alert in the event of breach has been provided for along with a monitoring scheme and sanctions where applicable. These measures will be accompanied by internal and external audits for the greatest possible efficacy. An CER charter in keeping with the Global Compact The Rémy Cointreau Corporate and Environmental Responsibility (CER) Charter confirms its commitments relative to sustainable development, defined when it joined the International Global Compact Charter in 2003 and based on six main themes : 1. Wine-growing 2. Supplier Relations 3. Quality/Safety/Environment 4. Marketing and sales ethics 5. Human Resources 6. Stakeholders and Sustainable Territorial development 2 All six commitments ensure observance of the Global Compact guidelines and their diffusion to our employees and partners: Themes Commitments Related Global Compact Principles Wine-growing Develop environmentallyPrinciples 7, 8 and 9 friendly growing methods Supplier Relations Involve our suppliers in our Principles 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, social and environmental 9 and 10 commitments Quality/Safety/Environment Guarantee the up market nature Principles 7, 8 and 9 of our products, with a permanent demand for quality, safety and environmental conservation Marketing Support the international Principles 1 and 2 and sales ethics development of our brands by promoting responsible communication and consumption of our products Human Resources Implement practices which Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, guarantee social equity and the 6 and 10 professional development of employees Stakeholders and Contribute to the sustainable Principles 1 to 9 Sustainable Territorial Development development of regions in which Rémy Cointreau is located by sharing our commitments and experience in the field of Corporate and Environmental Responsibility The actions led as part of our CER policy are given in the 2011/2012 Rémy Cointreau reference document (chapter Responsible Business / CER Policy), and in the 2011/2012 Annual Report ( Corporate and Environmental Responsibility ). These documents, available end of July 2012, can be consulted on our website and will be sent to all of our stakeholders. They will also feature all CER indicators, in relation to the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) international indicators. 3 Rémy Cointreau CER action plan: objectives, results and perspectives WINE-GROWING Our commitment: To implement and promote growing methods which are economically competitive and environmentally-friendly combined with traditional know-how (application of the most advanced guidelines on integrated farming). A certification approach of an exemplary nature Environmental certification is the best way of guaranteeing that strict processes are implemented around our wine-growing practices for customers. The Rémy Martin Domains (Cognac) were awarded integrated farming certification in 2007. The employees in Cognac received 22 days' training in order to continue training in integrated farming applications (GRI indicator equivalence: LA 10). The Grenelle Environment Round Table sets out new certification, that of farming of high environmental value (AHVE-Agriculture à Haute Valeur Environnementale) which integrates, while reinforcing them, integrated farming criteria. From its application in June 2011, we took the necessary steps to convert the integrated farming certification for our domains in Cognac into level 2 AHVE certification. The change should become effective after an inspection audit, and our objective is to reach level 3 (level of excellence) of the certification by the end of 2012/2013. Good wine-grower practices and promotion of know-how Spearhead of the good practices it promotes, Rémy Cointreau raises awareness among the wine-growers of Alliance Fine Champagne to the numerous standards and regulations on environmental concerns. The Group began a self-evaluation of practices in conjunction with a training institute. Once completed, the wine-growers were invited to the presentation of the results, and received advice and a demonstration of effluent treatment at a site in the Rémy Martin Domains. Almost 170 people were present at this event in April 2011. At the same time, the Group is evaluating the conditions of feasibility of collective AHVE certification, for wine-growers of the Alliance Fine Champagne and a pilot group has been set up. Finally, the Group not only encourages the best wine-growing practices, but also rewards the know-how of its suppliers. Each year, the 'Centaures de la distillation' ceremony, in which the profession recognises wine-growers' talents, is the occasion for the Group to pay tribute to the quality of work of its most deserving grower-distillers. Environmentally-friendly growing methods The Rémy Martin Domains are continuing their programme for the reduction of the use of phytosanitary products. Since 2011 the site is committed to the 2018 Ecophyto plan, as member of the DEPHY Ecophyto farms network. The objective is to reduce phytosanitary product doses by 50% by 2018, as provided for by the Grenelle Environment Round Table. In 2011/2012, these products were used on the domains at doses 30% lower than the approved doses and 100% of pesticides used are harmless to nature. 4 In the long-term, the Group would like to demonstrate that it is possible to develop sustainable growing systems, that use little pesticides but that are high-performance. We make a special effort to train our employees on how to use phytosanitary products properly. Legislation provides for individual training of all persons using these products by 2014: this is already the case for all employees on the Rémy Martin Domains, which are around twenty. Faithful to its principle of exemplarity, Rémy Martin encourages wine-growers to train and initiated discussions by welcoming a 'Phytosanitary Products' forum to its domains, organised by the Chamber of Agriculture of Charente. The training day gave rise to the creation of a video which was published on line. To protect biodiversity and ensure balanced growing methods, 31% of the domains are weeded naturally, a healthy alternative to chemical weeding. We have not used any chemical weedkillers for 5 years now. We control fertiliser application through regular soil analyses: 8 took place this year in Cognac. Finally, 100% of vineyards used natural predators to prevent the proliferation of insects that are harmful to the vines. 5 QUALITY, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT Our commitment: to guarantee the up market nature of our products by continuously investing in research, permanently demanding quality, food safety and industrial safety, and monitoring environmental conservation actions. Certification, evaluation of energy expenditure, reduction in the consumption of natural resources, carbon footprint and reduction of CO2 emissions, protection of biodiversity and finally audit of CER information by the Group's auditor, all methods of action are possible to make our ecological performance a driving force for economic success. For such action to be successful, financial investment this year reached 4 million Euros, up by 12% compared to the previous year (GRI indicator equivalence: EN30). A methodological note for environmental indicator reporting can be consulted in the 2011/2012 Rémy Cointreau reference document. A certification policy determined to reduce the environmental impact of our business Areas for action relating to quality, safety and the environment are a major challenge for Rémy Cointreau. Bearing witness to this is the renewal of ISO 9001 and 22000 certification in Angers, and ISO 14001 certification in Cognac. This policy incited the Group to implement training. This was the case in Angers, which trained packaging operators in 'quality vigilance'. On a broader scope, 2519 hours of QSE training were devoted to quality, safety and environment aspects, and 359 persons were trained (GRI indicator equivalence: LA10). The safety of persons and property also remains an important concern: 349 persons were trained this year on the subject and 1.6 million Euros were spent on safety (GRI indicator equivalence: LA 10). In terms of prevention, the sites have issued information sheets on high-risk situations which are used to identify potentially hazardous situations and to implement the necessary means of prevention. The occupational work number remains stable and low (10 in 2011/2012 and 10 in 2010/2011) (GRI indicator equivalence: LA 7). From next year, Cognac will be implementing integrated certification which will include 3 guidelines ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 22000. Energy consumption Total energy consumption by Rémy Cointreau has reduced by 3.6% and this reduction is notably due to less direct energy consumption (gas and fuel oil) on the sites. Electricity consumption is stable, which confirms the reduction observed over the last 5 years. (GRI indicator equivalence: EN 3 / EN 4 / EN 5) The efforts made to reduce energy consumption continue and the results can be seen: reducing heating temperature saved 7 to 11% energy depending on the site. Restoration of wine cellars saw the placement of energy saving lightbulbs, an initiative rewarded by an EDF energy saving certificate. Along with these technical modifications, awareness was raised among employees as to simple ways of saving energy such as switching the lights of in workshops and offices, switching machines and conveyors off during breaks and correct use of the heating control panels. Values are reducing overall and bear witness to the efforts made. The reduction in energy consumption is also thanks to the Green IT approach which has upgraded computing equipment and working methods. 80% of computing equipment was 6 replaced, thus saving almost 40% electricity thanks to the eco-responsible service provider that we selected. Ecodesign and protection of natural resources Rémy Cointreau strives to reduce the environmental impact of its new products. It uses the BEE software to do this, which measures the environmental impact of packaging. One of the actions undertaken by the Group was to reduce the weight of its glass bottles. The weight of the Rémy Martin 1738 Cognac bottles has reduced by around 12%, equivalent to a reduction of 70 tonnes of glass (GRI indicator equivalence: EN 26). Work on the ecodesign of its products continues assiduously and some of our packaging types have changed, such as that of the Club Cognac bottle, sold in Asia. The objective to reduce the environmental impacts of our packaging leads us to optimize those of products sold in France. Their average weight continues to decrease and the efforts we have made before today have led to an 84-tonne reduction in the weight of glass. Concerning the protection of natural resources, Rémy Cointreau is undertaking various actions to reduce its water and paper consumption. Total water consumption (GRI indicator equivalence: EN 8) has increased by 9.8%, mainly due to the creation of a new green area in Angers. In-house, awareness raising campaigns on ecoacts continues to draw interested parties. By the implementation of a new water saving process, Cognac has reduced its consumption of water used for cleaning. Concerning paper consumption, the reduction recorded over the last 5 years was confirmed this year, with 3.1 million sheets of paper used (GRI indicator equivalence: EN 1). Waste and effluents The Group maintains its efforts with respect to the reduction of effluents and waste. In this perspective, raising awareness to waste sorting is regularly reinforced by visits to waste treatment centres. The volume of waste, essentially comprising ordinary industrial waste (OIW), is stable overall (GRI indicator equivalence: EN 22). Sorting and reuse rates are also stable (93%). The volume of effluent has increased by 7.2%. However, pollution levels have clearly decreased, by around -35% (GRI indicator equivalence: EN 21). 7 Greenhouse gas emissions The carbon footprint, which evaluates greenhouse gas emissions due to economic activities, is essential for Rémy Cointreau. The Group voluntarily meets the requirements of order 2011-829 of July 2011 of the Grenelle Environment Round Table, and uses the Ademe's Carbon Footprint tool version 6 to do so, along with the emission factors from the Ademe database. Scopes 1 and 2 include emissions from indirect (electricity) and direct (gas, fuel oil) energy consumption, from coolant gases and vehicles owned by the company. The Group's total emissions represent 2,366 TeqCO2 divided between scope 1 (1,692 TeqCO2) and scope 2 (674 TeqCO2) / GRI indicator equivalence: EN 16. These emissions are mainly due to direct and indirect energy consumption representing 91% of total emissions. Beyond the regulatory scope of the carbon footprint, Rémy Cointreau is continuing its carbon emission reduction programme. In total, savings were 1,385 teqCO2 (GRI indicator equivalence: EN 18) essentially due to the increase in video-conferences, eco-design actions and reduction in energy consumption. The Group also preferred to purchase electric company cars to renew its automobile fleet in Cognac and Angers. Biodiversity Protection of biodiversity is part of the group's environmental responsibility and corporate commitment (GRI indicator equivalence: EN 13). On the Rémy Martin Domains, in Cognac, apiarian fallows for protecting bees ensures both economic effectiveness and contributes to the proper function of the ecosystem. Afforestation projects on land owned by the Group are continuing. Namely poplar plantations which increase the profitability of fields while encouraging the development of ecological fauna and flora. A 3-hectare experimental alluvial forest was also created on the banks of the Charente, in order to protect the quality of the soil and water. For the 3rd consecutive year, Rémy Cointreau has renewed its financial support for an afforestation project in partnership with the Office National des Forêts. The Group is financing an oak plantation programme on around forty hectares in the Senonches state forest in France. 8 SUPPLIERS Our commitment: To involve our suppliers in our corporate and environmental commitments, ensure their physical involvement and support them in their progress approach. Aware of the commitment of its suppliers to a corporate and environmental responsibility approach, Rémy Cointreau ensures that they observe principles set out by international charters. Compliance with the Global Compact charter in particular was audited by SGS, this year for example at our box, orange peel or essential oils suppliers. In total, the audit guideline features over 200 questions on all aspects of the company. Working conditions and social relations, safety and environment, the analysis spectrum is very broad. These audits also ensure that our suppliers' practices effectively meet the Group's quality requirements. In order to make the rigour that is part of our culture a common value with our partners and to lead them in a continuous improvement approach, we help them implement solid shortterm and mid-term progress plans. 3 progress plans have been identified this year. Among the actions included in these plans, 60% of them have already been implemented by the suppliers in question. The business ethics code covers the purchasing code of conduct more widely. It also confirms that the standards required by the Group from its suppliers are reciprocal to the Group's unimpeachable behaviour and respect for their work. 9 MARKETING AND SALES ETHICS Our commitment: To support the international development of our brands, by promoting responsible consumption and implementing marketing and sales ethics that are irreproachable in their principles and transparency, conveyed by partner distributors and an efficient customer service. Staying on course with responsible communication and clear commitments Promoting responsible consumption and communication are at the centre of the CER commitments taken by the Group in the Global Compact. Attentive to the expectations of civil society and of public authorities concerning the impact of its communications, for a number of years now, Rémy Cointreau has implemented a specific procedure prior to its communication campaigns along with an in-house control process. The ethics charter, designed by the group in 2004 serves as a guideline for all our marketing teams. The document lays out the fundamental principles which complement the strict legal framework for the promotion of spirits. Its content was reviewed and improved this year. All campaigns observe these commitments. At the end of 2011 in France, the Group signed the charter for responsible communication with the Union des Annonceurs. This membership commits us more widely to a set of good communication practices, through to ecodesign of communication means and methods. The Responsible Communication Committee, guarantor of self-regulation of practices The Responsible Communication Committee (RCC), an essential part of our operational structure, ensures that our commitments are properly implemented. The protection of minors, use of internet and digital media are subjects on which the committee is particularly vigilant. The procedures were reviewed this year and awareness was raised among marketing teams as to the new validation methods. Comprising competent persons from legal affairs, marketing and sales and advertising, the RCC analyses and confirms the compliance of all campaigns with the charters that Rémy Cointreau has signed (GRI indicator equivalence: PR 6). As this campaign verification stage is fundamental, it must be observed by all our teams around the world and the committee must ensure this. This is why the procedure for the submission of documents relating to the campaigns is fully dematerialised. This year, 6 promotional campaigns and action plans were submitted, essentially for the Rémy Martin, Cointreau and Metaxa brands. To accompany the RCC, the 'Alcohol and society' watch committee is studying the state of opinion, practices of other stakeholders and the latest scientific studies on the risks relating to alcohol consumption. Supporting research on alcohol addiction Rémy Cointreau continues to financially support scientific research institute on beverages (IREB), founded in 1971 by companies producing and distributing alcoholic beverages. The IREB leads and subsidises research which develops scientific knowledge on alcohol. It has an independent scientific committee and continues to financially support around thirty research projects each year. 10 HUMAN RESOURCES Our commitment: Guarantee social equity and the development of our partners, encourage their adhesion to the company's strategy and involve them in the Group's citizenship actions, as part of Rémy Cointreau's founding values that are our ability to listen and dialogue. Rémy Cointreau leads an international human resources policy, entering into a position of excellence. The quest for perfection relies on both our ability to construct a policy that concerns the Group as a whole, and to adapt it to each employee. Wherever they are located and whatever their line of business, our ambition is to encourage the professional and personal development of employees, notably through continuing education. The dynamics of growth offer opportunities to see the talents of tomorrow emerge and to use more inclusive forms of learning. A training policy aiming for excellence Increasingly present across the world, Rémy Cointreau has increased its employee numbers once again this year. This development comes with a change in human resources policy, in keeping with the company's requirements and expectations of its teams. This year the creation of the 'Rémy Cointreau Academy' marked a new step in this dynamic policy. Designed as a set of training programmes dispensed personally by the Group's top managers, this in-house university is fully suited to train all 300 managers and to support them in a Group-specific culture. Training is dispensed progressively: in the long term the modules will cover all key elements of our business: The 'Brand Academy' approaches the particular characteristics of marketing and sales from a strategic angle for our brands and the luxury sector. The 'Sales Academy' trains employees in negotiation and sales techniques, with a pragmatic and original approach, to be implemented on the markets in order to support the brands, creating value for our partners and clients, in keeping with the Group's strategy. Training was first dispensed locally, mainly in Asia The 'Finances Academy' will be available to all managers next year. 150 non-financial employees have already been trained, mainly in France. Beyond the economic aspects of our business, such training guarantees that all employees are able to understand the Group's effectiveness criteria, with a more effectively shared financial culture. Finally in the longer term, training on HR management will focus on aspects more closely related to leadership and to control of the managerial function. 11 At the same time, the training plan continued to support the professional development of our employees. E-learning is encouraged to incite each and everyone to train and to open up to foreign languages. A development library is also free for access to enable individual employees to undertake voluntary training. In addition to individual training, collective actions are sometimes implemented in various categories. The personnel on the Cognac site benefited from a full training day on 'premiumisation of spirits'. This training enabled them to further their knowledge about spirits, brand positioning strategies and various trends and identity codes that they comprise. Seizing opportunities to help our employees progress A group in expansion, Rémy Cointreau encourages the development and broadening of its teams' skills. The human resources policy set up some years ago, notably strives to contribute to making employees co-responsible and encourage them to invent their own professional future. With this in mind, formalisation of the employment and skills management planning process aims to enable the company to adapt its resources and anticipate needs, especially in terms of technical expertise and rare skills. An investment and industrial reform plan was implemented in Cognac, to support the Group's growth by creating specific positions to optimize production. Around ten experienced employees were offered a role of liaison officer between production teams and management, a new function within the Group. This initiative aims to streamline exchange for more effective production, while enabling skilled employees to progress professionally. Rémy Cointreau is also developing a recruitment policy with the highest requirements to attract top profiles and develop their potential. The Group's human scale also makes it possible to identify talents internally and to encourage them to develop thanks to the opportunities offered by our growth strategy. Career paths are monitored individually. Learning is another preferred means of recruiting and training the talents of tomorrow. On our French sites, around ten apprentices at Bac Pro to Bac +5, level 6 in Angers and 4 in Cognac are learning about their business in an environment in which rigour and creativity are encouraged. Some of our trainees have been offered international business internships. Skills transfer is also a strong concern, necessary in a sector in which know-how is an art more than a business. Junior senior partnerships were created in the winecellars to ensure task continuity in observance of traditional methods. 12 Objective staff-management dialogue to encourage the integration and well-being of employees Anxious to work in a social climate favourable to the Group's performance and personal development of its employees, Rémy Cointreau has signed a number of agreements with its social partners. The agreement on salary policy, notably including salary increase for non-executives, encourages employee loyalty. The site in Barbados has also signed a specific agreement on the subject. Two new agreements on employee shareholding and on employment and skills management planning were signed this year. Today, 46% of employees are women in France (GRI indicator equivalence: LA 13). An agreement on labour equality between men and women covers actions in five areas: recruitment, remuneration, career and training, work conditions, private life-work life balance. Other than these agreements, the Group's French sites are very attentive to the well-being of their employees. The sites in Angers and Cognac are therefore conducting psychosocial assessments with the Aract (regional association for the improvement of working conditions). In Cognac, while considering the results to be positive, the Group has implemented tangible actions to encourage recognition for the work of each employee, enhance skills and improve working conditions and relationships so they are simpler and more effective. In Angers, the participative and preventive approach was preferred. Around ten group meetings were organised on the meaning of perfection for each of the teams. A group of employees from various positions, members of the works committee and the CHSCT (Safety Committee) were highly involved in this project. An ergonomist and the occupational physician also contributed. There again the results are positive, and confirm that the working atmosphere is calm. Areas of improvement have been defined in order to continue in this direction and will be implemented next year. Expenditure on improving working conditions amounts to 1.1 million Euros Turning diversity into opportunity The Group wishes to offer all of its employees the opportunity to develop their career. We therefore continue to adapt our recruitment methods and job positions to welcome more disabled workers. In Cognac, the efforts made mean we have almost 27 FTE (full time equivalents), for a legally required minimum of 18. In Angers, the Group has chosen to pay its apprenticeship tax to organisations, schools or supporting structures encouraging the insertion of disabled workers. In terms of diversity, and after two years during which a strong policy was able to be implemented, the Group also initiated actions relating to diversification of recruitment, equality between men and women, integration of disabled workers and local reintegration programmes. Cognac also runs recruitment operations with the Pole Emploi Centre for people in social reintegration which have led to permanent contracts. 13 STAKEHOLDERS, SUSTAINABLE TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT Our commitment: To meet the requirements of stakeholders, share our experience of sustainable development at territorial level in areas in which Rémy Cointreau is located, with tangible actions for local sustainable development. Sharing our experience with stakeholders, in France and abroad Rémy Cointreau's CER policy and action plan are put forward in a transparent manner, in response to the demand of its stakeholders. It is especially the case in European distribution networks, in which its products are all the more appreciated in that its efforts in terms of social and environmental responsibility are known and recognised. Our pedagogy towards stakeholders is also recognised by rating agencies and SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) company savings plans. The Group aims to explain and demonstrate that CER and luxury are not contradictory approaches. There is on the contrary a strong relationship between the demand for excellence which has made the reputation of its products and SER practices which reflect our demand for quality for our customers. Rémy Cointreau has been asked to bear witness to this emerging theme and reporting on its global CER approach is intensifying. To go even further, we partake in sponsorship in order to sustain our convictions well beyond French borders. This year, the Louis XIII brand is supporting The Film Foundation working to save cinematographic heritage by restoring old films. Founded in 1990 by Martin Scorsese, the foundation shares the commitment to conserve heritage with Rémy Cointreau and with Louis XIII in particular. We uphold centennial know-how with the same passion that fuels the foundation to pay tribute to the memory of cinema. Our shared goal is to pass down history. Working towards the sustainable development of territories The Group is above all attentive to CER best practices on the territories in which it runs its business. For this reason it continues to work with the Revico company which treats the distillery residues from the Cognac vineyard to produce green energy. Local action programmes, also involves informing people about sustainable development at Rémy Cointreau, by meeting students in schools and universities around us, which dispense specialist teaching courses in sustainable development. Beyond this, the Group continues its local social action programmes. We are supporting the 'Fondation de la 2eme chance' which supports persons in unstable situations in a realistic and sustainable professional project (courses leading to qualification, business creation). Finally, in line with the actions initiated with the Pole Emploi Centre, some of our employees took the initiative to sponsor persons in social reintegration by providing them with advice and access to their knowledge network. 14 Conclusions and prospects: Making our commitments part of the ISO 26000 standard An international group, member of the Global Compact since 2003, Rémy Cointreau bases its strategy on international guidelines. We deliberately chose to complete our international commitments by bringing our CER policy under the aegis of the ISO 26000 standard. From next year, the 6 areas of our strategy will be reorganised according to this new standard. There is therefore complete consistency between our policy and adaptation to the new CER challenges in terms of legislative and normative developments, climatic change, or even reports on working conditions. A major development for the Group, a new section 'CER Governance' will bring together elements relating to CER management. Our CER areas of work will all feature in the chapters 'Working conditions and human rights', 'Wine-growing and environment', 'Fair practices', 'Consumers' and 'Citizenship'. Our adhesion to ISO standard 26000 will be directly implemented in the short term in the second CER Charter (pending edition). In the mid-term our commitments and actions may be submitted for ISO 26000 audit, thus completing certifications already granted and renewed regularly, notably those referring to the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 22000 guidelines. We wish to lead all of our suppliers and stakeholders in the same direction. Our role as good practice ambassador is particularly important to us because it confirms our commitment to the Global Compact and involves us in a responsible development process. The lessons learned from the action undertaken until now will enable us to organize our 2015 CER plan, a three-year programme for responsible growth. This plan will commit us to objectives and results which will be reported each year in a transparent manner. We will continue to develop progress action plans as far as possible, in full consistency with the quest for perfection that drives the Group as a whole. Christian Lafage Corporate and Environmental Responsibility Director Appendix examples of indicators monitored as part of implementation of Rémy Cointreau’s social and environmental responsibility policy (with GRI indicator equivalence) 15 REMY COINTREAU INDICATORS LINK WITH THE GRI INDICATORS (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE) REMY COINTREAU INDICATORS (France) GRI INDICATORS YEAR YEAR CSR AGREEMENT INDICATORS AREA INDICATORS 2010 / 2011 2011 / 2012 39 20 Labor pratices and Employees training LA10 persons persons decent work WINE MAKING Labor pratices and Number of training days -22 LA10 decent work CSR notation of the key suppliers -3 Human rights HR2 SUPPLIERS AND (Progress plans) RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING CSR notation of the key suppliers (Implementation rate of progress -60% Human rights HR2 plans) RCC meetings (Responsible 1 1 Product Responsability PR6 Communication Committee) Compliance rate of the marketing -100% Product Responsability PR6 SALES communication (validated by RCC) AND MARKETING Total number of incidents of non ETHICS compliance with regulation and None None Product Responsability PR7 voluntary codes Fines for non compliance with laws and regulations None None Product Responsability PR9 Total workforce (World) 1621 1560 France 49% 43% Labor pratices and Europe (except for France) 9% 10% LA1 decent work America 20% 21% HUMAN Asia 22% 26% RESSOURCES 14 560 11 773 Labor pratices and Average hours of training LA10 hours hours decent work Incidents of discrimination None None Human rights HR4 REMY COINTREAU INDICATORS LINK WITH THE GRI INDICATORS (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE) REMY COINTREAU INDICATORS (France) GRI INDICATORS YEAR YEAR CSR AGREEMENT INDICATORS AERA INDICATORS 2010 / 2011 2011 / 2012 Carton consumption saved 90 tons -Environment EN26 Plastic consumption saved 28 tons -Environment EN26 Glass consumption saved -152 tons Environment EN26 Scope 1 : 1692 TeqC02 C02 emissions -Environment EN16 Scope 2 : 674 TeqC02 C02 emissions saved related to energy 85 TeqC02 154 TeqC02 Environment EN18 C02 emissions saved related to vehicles 300 TeqC02 948 TeqC02 Environment EN18 C02 emissions saved related to products 1000 TeqC02 282 TeqC02 Environment EN18 ecodesign 3,08 3,12 Paper consumption Environment EN1 million sheets million sheets Total weight of waste 1965 tons 1956 tons Environment EN22 Waste sorting 93% 93% Environment EN22 QUALITY / SAFETY / Waste recovering 93% 93% Environment EN22 Energy consumption (total) 15884 MWh 15315 MWh Environment EN3 / EN4 ENVIRONMENT Energy consumption saved (total) -3,6% Environment EN5 Direct energy consumption (Gas, fuel) 7912 MWh 7384 MWh Environment EN3 Direct energy saved -6,7% Environment EN5 Indirect energy consumption (electricity) 7973 MWh 7931 MWh Environment EN4 Indirect energy saved -0,5% Environment EN5 Water consumption 72899 m3 80015 m3 Environment EN8 Water effluents 17986 m3 19284 m3 Environment EN21 Polluting load of water effluents 4814 eq. inhabitants 3123 eq. inhabitants Environment EN21 Training of the employees in QSE (Quality / Labor pratices and 340 persons 359 persons LA10 Safety / Environment) decent work Labor pratices and Training of the employees in the safety 404 persons 349 persons LA10 decent work Fines and penalties for non compliance with the None None Environment EN28 environmentlaws and regulations QSE Investments 4,0 million of euros 3,9 million of euros Environment EN30
