Noratel AS Communication on Progress – Prepared by Per Forsell Q&E Global Manager Period Covered: August 10th 2011 to August 10th 2012 Statement of continued support by the CEO for Noratel Group I am pleased to confirm that Noratel AS reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-­‐ Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our normal communication in stakeholder meetings. Asle Braathen Tandberg CEO Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Assessment, Policy & Goals Noratel AS goal is to influence that our employees and our business partners respect the Declaration of Human Rights. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct, published in our management system, globally spread to all our companies and employees in our intranet. Our goal is to not carry out any business with any company in areas were flagrant human rights abuses are known. Implementation We have implemented the assessment of Human Rights in to our Supplier Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) in our management procedures. The SAQ is obligated to be used for evaluation of all suppliers used in Noratel Group. At the moment the SAQ are used in the following companies, Noratel Sweden, Noratel AS, Noratel Finland, Noratel Denmark, Noratel UK, Noratel Poland, Noratel Germany, Noratel China, Noratel Sri Lanka, Noratel India and Noratel North America. During the yearly MD meeting in Berlin our CEO Asle Braathen Tandberg conducted a training session for all MD to raise the awareness on human rights issues. In the training session Noratel management group and MD from Noratel Sweden, Noratel AS, Noratel Finland, Noratel Denmark, Noratel UK, Noratel Germany, Noratel China, Noratel Sri Lanka, Noratel India and Noratel North America participated. 1 Training material on Power Point media has been made available on our intranet net to train all employees globally to raise the awareness. Outcome During the year we have re-­‐evaluated 50% of our group suppliers to ensure we are using companies complying and supporting the Declaration of Human rights (group suppliers are representing 92% of the total purchase value for Noratel Group). During the year Noratel AS has not been subjected to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6:the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Assessment, policy and Goals Noratel Group management system contains policy state the right for collective bargaining. Our management system covers policy concerning our employee’s rights and compensation and responsibilities. We will continue to improve the procedures as needed and incorporate the global compact. Noratel has a global health and Safety Policy and developed procedures for Health and Safety in our management system, both globally and locally. Safety and Health issues are focused in yearly internal audits and training programme on local level in our companies. Implementation We have implemented the assessment of Labour in to our Supplier Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) in our management procedures. The SAQ is obligated to be used for evaluation of all suppliers used in Noratel Group. At the moment the SAQ are used in the following companies, Noratel Sweden, Noratel AS, Noratel Finland, Noratel Denmark, Noratel UK, Noratel Poland, Noratel Germany, Noratel China, Noratel Sri Lanka, Noratel India and Noratel North America. During the yearly MD meeting in Berlin our CEO Asle Braathen Tandberg conducted a training session for all MD to raise the awareness on Labour issues according to principal 3 to 6. In the training session Noratel management group and MD from Noratel Sweden, Noratel AS, Noratel Finland, Noratel Denmark, Noratel UK, Noratel Germany, Noratel China, Noratel Sri Lanka, Noratel India and Noratel North America participated. Training material on Power Point media has been made available on our intranet to train all employees globally to raise the awareness. 2 We have started a project to implement a more detailed brochure with guidelines for Health and Safety. The brochure will be used globally and shall be distributed to employees and to visitors in our premises. Outcomes During the year we have re-­‐evaluated 50% of our group suppliers to ensure we are using companies complying and supporting the Labour act, principle 3 to 6 (group suppliers are representing 92% of the total purchase value for Noratel Group). Noratel runs a process were all Group companies management have a monthly meeting with the group management (consist of CEO, Purchase director, Sales Director, Production Director, Finance Director, Global QE Manager). During this meeting all e.g. issues regarding labour and Health and Safety are reported. Noratel have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the Global Compact Labour principles. Noratel have not been subjected to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Assessment, Policy and Goals Noratel have a global policy for our environmental work thru the total organization in 13 countries. The largest impact from our business has been identified in environmental study and is communicated every year. Noratel have a common environmental management system according to the guidelines in ISO 14001. The management system is certified by Intertek Certification and is annually audited. In the coming year we have stated goals for the following areas; -­‐ Waste management, decrease the amount of waste in relation to the production -­‐ Energy use, decrease the carbon foot print -­‐ Solvents evaporating to air, stop using solvent based impregnation Implementation During the yearly MD meeting in Berlin our CEO Asle Braathen Tandberg conducted a training session for all MD to raise the awareness on Environmental issues. In the training session Noratel management group and MD from Noratel Sweden, Noratel AS, Noratel 3 Finland, Noratel Denmark, Noratel UK, Noratel Germany, Noratel China, Noratel Sri Lanka, Noratel India and Noratel North America participated. We have since many years evaluated our suppliers commitment to environmental issues in our Supplier Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ). Our intention is to use suppliers who can show commitment in form of policy, awareness of the environmental impact and using improvement programme. Today our contribution in the group is totally 36000 kg of solvents evaporating to air. We have started a project to change all impregnation varnish to non-­‐solvent based alternatives, to be implemented during year 2012. Noratel have identified the products falling under the WEEE directive. Noratel have agreements with licensed waste companies for recycling of the products. Noratel have identified the products falling under the EU Energy Directive. We are today designing the products to have the approved losses in according to the directive. In our focus goals for each company in the group we have started to measure the used energy in form of electricity, oil, gas and district heating. The result is recalculated to carbon footprint in relation to the amount of steel, copper and aluminium we are using. Outcomes During the year we have evaluated 80% of our group suppliers to ensure we are using companies complying and supporting the Environmental issues (group suppliers are representing 92% of the total purchase value for Noratel Group). The project to find non-­‐solvent based impregnation varnish is close to be finished. We have during the spring being testing different alternatives according to our test plan. We have in Noratel Poland made the first investment in totally new equipment to be using a new type of impregnation varnish. All results and consequences for all companies will be presented before October 2012. The waste company to take care about the electrical waste falling under WEEE directive are monthly reporting the results. We have also received a certificate showing our obligation to fulfil the directive. Noratel has not hade any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subjected to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Principle 10:Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy & Goals Noratel AS goal is to influence that our employees and our business partners respect the Declaration of Anti Corruption. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct, 4 published in our management system, globally spread to all our companies and employees in our intranet. We have started a work in Noratel Poland to strengthened the guideline how each employee shall behave when it comes to bribery and gifts. Our goal is to not carry out any business with any company in areas were flagrant Corruption and Bribery is known. Implementation We have implemented the assessment of Anti Corruptionin to our Supplier Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) in our management procedures. The SAQ is obligated to be used for evaluation of all suppliers used in Noratel Group. At the moment the SAQ are used in the following companies, Noratel Sweden, Noratel AS, Noratel Finland, Noratel Denmark, Noratel UK, Noratel Poland, Noratel Germany, Noratel China, Noratel Sri Lanka, Noratel India and Noratel North America. During the yearly MD meeting in Berlin our CEO Asle Braathen Tandberg conducted a training session for all MD to raise the awareness on Anti Corruption. In the training session Noratel management group and MD from Noratel Sweden, Noratel AS, Noratel Finland, Noratel Denmark, Noratel UK, Noratel Germany, Noratel China, Noratel Sri Lanka, Noratel India and Noratel North America participated. Training material on Power Point media has been made available on our intranet to train all employees globally to raise the awareness. Outcomes During the year we have re-­‐evaluated 50% of our group suppliers to ensure we are using companies complying and supporting the Anti Corruption principle (group suppliers are representing 92% of the total purchase value for Noratel Group). Noratel has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. 5
