THE SHORTEST PATH BETWEEN TWO POINTS IN THE DIRECT LINE Index Director Commitment 3 About Direct Line 5 The 10 Principles 10 Human Rights 12 Labour 14 Environment 18 Anti-corrpution 22 Finally 24 Keeping up with Supporting the Global Compact We subscribed to the UN Global Compact, having faith in its importance. We hereby renew our commitment with its ten principles that cover the following four main fields: Human Rights, Labour, Environment, Anti-Corruption, We are committed to transparently apply these principles in running our company and to make them an integral part of its strategies. It has become essential to be concerned with these principles for protection of our planet that houses all walks of life and for protection of our sustaining interlinked communities, hence an imperative necessity rather than an intellectual luxury. Adherence to these principles could be theoretically difficult, but when exercised in day-to-day life it is by far easy to apply, let alone the control of corruption which has become a nemesis in all communities, soaring to all scales and involving those in top leadership. Its control calls for deployment of all efforts worldwide for protection of mankind as a whole. It is our hope that these principles apply extensively and have become respected by all companies as well as firms and individuals alike. Director Maya Patsalides 3 www.directlineme.com Direct Line Multimedia; Production house and Advertising agency of integrated services. A Creative Total Solutions… “ The shortest path between 2 points” Devoted to communication in its broadest sense, Direct Line ensures the entire process of services related to its function, starting from the idea and creation of identity and logo, up to the final film production. Direct Line consists of: Media Line, Production Line, Audio Line The meaning of the name “Direct Line” The idea of the name “Direct Line” came from two very different but related values: Personal value: Originating from the Direct Line Management’s vision and principles in life in general… in any direct line there is transparency and honesty… and at the end of the day: “may the truth prevail” Professional value: A direct line at work provides: the best service for the best prices. A direct line takes us from the concept to its adaptation. In a direct line, there are no “round-about ways”. 5 5 Our Vision To become the leader in providing Total Creative Solution. Our mission We are committed to offer our clients solutions throughout the world and access to the newest technologies at an affordable price. We combined several integrated divisions, each operating independently, yet coordinating efficiently at various levels to provide high quality services and ensure customers satisfaction. We supply complete communication packages from initial concept to delivery, in all types of multimedia and broadcast We provide alternative means to the high cost of film and video production and post-production that fit our client’s needs and budgets. Our quality is the result of our dedication to constantly upgrade our technology and skills. Our Value At Direct Line, our employees are our company's most valuable assets. Our work environment is nurtured in a unique way enabling creative thinking to thrive and employees to develop to their fullest potential, thus delivering only the best products and the highest customer satisfaction. 6 Direct Line consists of 3 divisions complement and interact among each other: Production Line Media Line Audio Line From idea to realization, the shortest path between 2 points The main specialization of Direct Line is TV Production in its wide diversity Hence its main division is: Production Line Coordinates and produces projects partially or entirely. We are equipped to carry out: TV commercials, documentary films, short films, televised series 4 of several episodes, from production, directing…to post-production. Visual Identity TV Commercials C.G. Documentaries Chroma Interactive DVD Multimedia Presentations CD Business Card 2D & 3D Animations/ Composing 3D Architectural Special effects Surround photos Interactive DVDs Production Line creative multimedia produces the most effective, easily handled and accessible at any time marketing tools ever created through all its integrated services 4 7 In line with its policy of providing integrated services; and in response to local market demand; Direct Line has developed a special division of Advertising and Media, which is Media Line Develops corporate identities, full range of marketing communications, and 4 strategic campaigns with their related promotional support based on solid marketing objectives. Our services cover: Corporate Identities Brand and Message Development Logo creation & stationery adaptation Advertising Campaign Brand Activities Creative Concepts, Artwork, POSM Designing, Writing, Editing (Brochures, Newsletters, Annual Rports…) Media and Coverage Printing 4 Website In one click of mouse, you can play an interactive multimedia presentation about your company with full motion video and audio; you can browse through your complete product line, select product information… even get connected to your website. 4 8 In order to cover all work aspects; Direct Line has recently developed a special new section specialized in audio; Audio Line cooperates with leading recording studios, composers, poets... Our services cover: Musical Identities Jingles Children Songs Linear/ Flash Break in & Break out Theme & Mood Talent VO Enhancing Slogan Radio Ad. Lyrics SFX Sound Track Arabic for non-native speakers 9 TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE CLOBAL COMPACT The global compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set core values within the following areas: First of all, allow us to point out that Direct Line was the company that printed the booklet distributed at the United Nations’ Headquarters in New York on the occasion of the Leader Summit 2010, which included a summary of the activities of the Global Compact Network – Syria. Also, as implementation of the principles of the Global Compact of the UN, our company contributed, despite of its small size, with a quarter of the printing expenses of the booklet in addition to the design and creation of the slogans reflecting those principles. 10 HUMAN RIGHTS Principal 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principal 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Given the meaning of its name and its own values, Direct Line decided to join the Global Compact for companies and to abide by all its princples which correspond to its own beliefs. From the rest of this report and from the diversity of its employees, we will find that Direct Line respects all human rights, giving a perfect example to all its business partners, companies, associations and individuals; therefore it participates in supporting and encouraging the Syrian society’s development on the basis of those principles. These principles faced a test during the upheaval which started in Syria since mid-March 2011 and is still waging (more than a year already). Divergence in the public opinion of Syrians is far and wide, involving even those in their workplaces. Some of our employees are pros and others are cons. Day in day out, they trade debates on what is going on in Syria. It has been our principle that each and every individual of Direct Line should respect the other individual’s opinion and his/her right in free expression pioneered by debate. This has led to moderation in stances and a better understanding of the other’s opinion; hence, intimacy has ruled among them all, and positive opinions have become increasingly prevailing as time wears on. 12 adequate food LABOUR Principal 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining; Principal 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principal 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principal 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 14 We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. We, in Direct Line, are one big family and apply, within our means and capbility, the bonus system. We sign as the Direct Line Family or Team on all our external communitions. Our company also supports several human societies and organizations through various activities such as: We support the Association for Autism in the city of Latakia and design all the advertisements for the Autism Festival free of charge. We collect all unnecessary papers, magazines and cartons which we find not needed in the company, and send them to an organization which recycles them. And part of the savings generated from this process is donated to the Association for Autism. We collect all plastic caps from mineral water bottles or other, and send them to an organization for the disabled; for, every kilogram of placaps enbles them to buy a wheelchair in order to help one of their disabled members. All the employees at Direct Line are older than 19 years of age; 52% of them are men and 48% women. And since we in Syria are of various coexisting religions and sects, the Direct Line team consists of Christians and Muslims from various communities spread among the different work posts. 15 During festive seasons and on special occasions, the Direct Line family grabs the occasion and celebrates collectively either in the company or outside. We encouraged and supported our employees when they created an “Employees’ Fund”, where each staff member participates with his/her share of savings, as well as an additional contribution from the Management; the resulting sum goes to a different member of the fund every month, therefore benefiting all the employees on regular basis. Direct Line also created a canteen for its employees, for break time; at a time when we were in dire need of every square meter of our company premises as we are in development stage. In addition, we are currently dedicating an isolated area within the company building to religious practices, where employees wishing to pray during working hours are able to do so in the best of conditions. Back to the enormous crisis experienced by Syria since mid-March 2011, specifically its economic impact. Syrian economy has receded because of embargo, overseas sanctions, boycott on purchase of Syrian oil even on those who buy it, the war against the Syrian Pound exchange rate, etc.. This has led to closing down a number of commercial firms and to weakening of the workforce’s psychological and financial stability, so much so that they fear losing their jobs, accept lower wages and work on part time basis to keep earning their bread and butter (or whatever can be salvaged), away from unemployment and all misfortunes associated with it. Notwithstanding these precarious circumstances, our company kept on all its employees willing to stay with us, maintained their payroll scale and even supported those facing an adverse political situation without any discrimination as to gender, religious denomination or political affiliation. This juncture calls upon us to make such enormous efforts and personal sacrifices as cannot be plausibly easy with the time element ever hovering on the crisis. This attitude could not materialize had it not been for our adherence to the great principles of which the Global Impact is considered a part. 16 ENVIRONMENT Principal 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principal 8: undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsbility and; Principal 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmetally friendly technologies. SAVE YOUR ENVIRONMENT 18 18 Conservation of the environment, in its broader sense, has become part of our culture in such a manner that it is now embedded in all our activities, and initiatives from our side are taken automatically without second thoughts. Here is an example showing the previously mentioned as a true reality, not for the sake of enumeration but just as a glimpse to visualize our assimilation of these principles which have simply become part of us: Concerning the seventh principle, calling for the encouragement to adopt a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges, we installed double-layered glass to strengthen the offices’ insulation against temperature fluctuations, hence saving energy (gas oil for heating and electricity for cooling); and therefore contributing (on our humble scale) to reducing the emission of gases in the atmosphere which ultimately may lead to thermal retention in our planet. As for supporting initiatives to expand the scope of environmental responsibility, Direct Line participated in the program implemented by the Governorate of Damascus Suburbs, which adopted 2010 as a year for environmental conservation. In addition, we include and circulate in all our e-mails the phrase:  Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail 19 We also replaced hard copies of our company profile by DVDs to reduce paper consumption; and we renewed our website which includes an overview of our company, accessible to all our current and future clients, hence saving tremendously in support materials and using the least energy possible. Lastly, we also have to cite the critical circumstances which our country has been experiencing for more than a year and have led to power cuts hours and hours daily because of electricity rationing. In order to continue business in our office and protect the environment from pollution, we decided to replace a diesel-powered generator with a sophisticated inverter at a higher cost of purchase. That said, we have protected our staff and environment from the increased pollution, have oriented the use of power, and have contributed towards our modest standard through minimizing the emission of gases and protecting the ozone layer. After examining the steps mentioned above, we find that Direct Line is constantly and instinctively oriented towards the conservation of the environment, always supporting initiative to that end. 20 20 SAVE THE PLANET ANTI-CORRUPTION Principal 10: businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. We vigorously seek to participate in limiting the massively spread bribery and to resist the corruption that has infested all societies (each society having its own devious ways for extortion, bribery and all other forms of corruption…). Actually, this topic reveals itself to be the most difficult one to implement in the real world, as commercial competitiveness has become even fiercer than in previous times, and one of its illegitimate ways depends on corruption that has reached all levels. In the year 2010, we suffered tremendously when we were faced with two difficult options: either to get an extension to a very important contract with one of the prominent companies in return for bribing the new general manager and his team, or to withdraw from the hypothetical competition that was carried out far from the conditions of honest competition. Ultimately we decided to abide by the principles we respect, thus we endured a relatively important loss. The media being our line of business, we have noticed the huge corruption worldwide and the perilous sectarian incitation prevailing in information and TV stations. We have organized several seminars to counsel our employees on the risk of corruption and information lies and on making them feel that we are one and the same people living together under the roof of one and the same nation, despite our various doctrines and beliefs. It would be worthwhile to add that in 2011 we and everybody else in Syria have found that the control of corruption is a priority for the society as a whole and that all reforms sought worldwide will be doomed to failure if not started with combating the corruption. 22 corruption corruption corruption corruption corruption corruption corr corruption corruption corruption Finally While concluding this COP, we beg those in charge of the Global Compact project, to tell us how to operate towards satisfactory results in their experience and that of the companies that managed to combat corruption away from possibly occasional adverse repercussions on them, specially that we are operating in a cutthroat competitive market where all ways and means are legitimized to win contracts and gain profit. We reiterate our request to you to organize an initiative of the United Nations to declare the year 2012 or next year 2013; «Global Anti-Corruption Year», because this epidemic has infected the entire globe, and because individual initiatives, no matter how heroic they may be in comparison to the size of their respective owners, remain marginal if not accompanied by key reforms on all levels, starting from education in schools and at home (in order to found new generations on the basis of higher principles); going on to the voluntary contribution of all the media and advertising channels to actively and effectively be the Fourth Power, by detecting corruption and following up the main issues until completely resolved once and for all, based on the development of laws that impose transparency in the business world and severely punish all kinds of corruption; and ending with the actual implementation of these laws and sanctions on all categories, particularly at higher levels in society, including those benefiting from «political immunity», and those with the advantage of «financial immunity». To your kind selves and to all contributors to the Global Compact and its success. Best regards and deepest respect. The Direct Line family. 24 24
