SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA OUR APPROACH CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 1 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA TELSTRA IS AUSTRALIA’S CONTENTS LEADING TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION SERVICES Message from the Chairman and CEO 3 COMPANY. WE OFFER A FULL Context 5 RANGE OF SERVICES AND COMPETE IN ALL Sustainability at Telstra 6 TELECOMMUNICATIONS Ethics, values and governance 9 MARKETS THROUGHOUT Anti-bribery and anti-corruption 10 AUSTRALIA, PROVIDING 13.8 MILLION MOBILE SERVICES AND Human rights 11 SERVING 2.6 MILLION RETAIL Stakeholder engagement 12 FIXED BROADBAND CUSTOMERS. Sustainable procurement 15 TELSTRA’S INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSES INCLUDE TELSTRA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, THE ABOUT OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING HONG KONG MOBILE SERVICES COMPANY CSL, AND A NUMBER Through our reporting we aim to provide relevant information about our OF DIGITAL BUSINESSES social and environmental approach and performance, for all of IN CHINA. Telstra’s stakeholders. Our Annual Review is a concise summary of Telstra’s financial and business performance, as well as the material sustainability issues impacting the company. The Bigger Picture sustainability reporting series and our website provide further sustainability information, including additional performance data. www.telstra.com.au/sustainability SCOPE Our sustainability reporting covers the 2011/12 financial year for Telstra Corporation Limited, unless otherwise stated. This excludes the following operations that comprised the wider Telstra Group in the reporting period: Sensis, Telstra International Group, our controlled entities CSL, China digital businesses, REACH and TelstraClear, and our 50 per cent ownership of Foxtel. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO THE CHALLENGE AND We have seen an unprecedented growth in new ‘connectivity’ through OPPORTUNITY WE FACE Smartphones, internet access and mobile broadband that is changing AS A COMPANY AND SOCIETY communities, businesses and industries. There are many opportunities IS HOW WE MAKE THE to use this next generation of enhanced ‘connectivity’ in ways that NEXT GENERATION OF improve the lives of all Australians irrespective of age, education, COMMUNICATIONS location, income, gender or race. TECHNOLOGY AVAILABLE TO ALL AUSTRALIANS IN While we know we can always do more we are pleased with the A SUSTAINABLE AND progress we are making on our sustainability agenda at Telstra. We RESPONSIBLE MANNER. take this responsibility very seriously and we are committed to playing our part as a trusted and respected Australian Corporation. Our ambition is to bring the social and the environmental into the heart of how we operate as a business in ways that create value for the company and for our stakeholders. The ‘playing field’ is changing dramatically. We have finalised landmark agreements that outline Telstra’s participation in the rollout of the National Broadband Network. The telecommunications industry is in a transition driven by the enormous growth in digital connectivity connected consumers, homes, workplaces and communities. More broadly, businesses are recognising that their ability to prosper over the longer term is dependent on their responses to the changing social and environmental expectations of employees, customers, investors, regulators and the wider public. Telstra is changing to capitalise on the opportunities this new ‘playing field’ presents. Our business is focused on improving customer service, retaining and growing our customer numbers, simplifying the business and building new growth businesses. This year, Telstra established a Chief Sustainability Office to support the company through these significant transformations. It has brought together key functions from across the business to improve the strategic alignment of our activities, and to streamline and improve our sustainability performance into the future. The Chief Sustainability Office is focussing on three key challenges: Everyone Connected As Australia’s largest and oldest telecommunications company, Telstra has a unique role to play in helping our most vulnerable customers and communities connect and interact safely in the digital world. This year, we have provided support through our Access for Everyone programme, our disability products and services and the Telstra Foundation’s Everyone Connected grants. Involving our employees in sustainability It is important that we engage and equip our employees to build sustainability thinking, behaviour and practices into their everyday work. This year, we introduced paid volunteer leave and matched payroll giving for Telstra employees. Next year, our focus will be on creating more opportunities for our people to get involved with local communities. Developing an environmental customer value proposition This year, the key environmental risks and opportunities for Telstra were identified in an Environment White Paper. Next year, this will be used as the input to the development of a Telstra Environment Strategy and customer value proposition, signalling our commitment to becoming an Australian environmental leader. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO We have also made sound progress in other areas of sustainability this year. Some of our key achievements include: > Celebrating 10 years of the Telstra Foundation with over $40 million in support of 7,000 projects across Australia. > Working with over 2,000 community organisations across Australia to deliver $179.8 million of products and services that help disadvantaged Australians remain connected. > Decreasing Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman (TIO) Level 1 complaints by 26 per cent. > Increasing our Telstra Group employee engagement score from 75 per cent to 77 per cent. > Reducing our carbon emissions intensity by 36 per cent. While we have made good progress, we know there is more to do. Regrettably, this year there were a number of privacy incidents that undermined the very good work we have done to rebuild trust and improve customer satisfaction. Protecting our customers’ privacy is a complex technical challenge in the new online world of the internet however we clearly understand that it is a business imperative and we know that we have to do better. Like all leading companies, Telstra has a responsibility to promote diversity and inclusion. Despite some pleasing gains at Board and executive level, our overall female representation has decreased slightly. In addition, our results on employment of Indigenous trainees fell short of our targets. Promoting diversity will continue to be a priority over the coming year. This year, we became a signatory to the United Nation Global Compact. We are committed to supporting its ten principles and to promoting them whenever we operate. We have also established a Sustainability Council, comprising the Group’s Executive Leadership Team, to ensure that we set ambitious targets that challenge the company to continually improve its performance. Sustainability remains a key focus for the Board and management at Telstra. Catherine B Livingstone, AO Chairman David Thodey Chief Executive Officer TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 4 CONTEXT WE ARE COMMITTED TO As a large telecommunications company with a presence across CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS Australia and a growing international footprint, Telstra’s responsibility is ETHICALLY, WITH INTEGRITY to manage our business ethically to produce an overall positive impact AND RESPECT FOR OUR for our customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders, as STAKEHOLDERS. well as the wider community and the natural environment. Telstra’s primary corporate responsibilities are to: > increase shareholder value and protect shareholder interests > serve the needs of our customers > make Telstra a great place to work > provide good stewardship of the environment > contribute resources people, money, technology, products and services to support the communities in which we operate > advance the national interest by strengthening the capability of the nation’s telecommunications infrastructure, and thereby providing a strong foundation for economic growth, productivity improvement, sustainable prosperity and global competitive advantage. In meeting these responsibilities, we are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, transparency and accountability. We conduct our activities ethically, in accordance with the law and our regulatory obligations, in ways that are competitive, fair and honest. Our approaches to sustainability, risk management, compliance, ethics and stakeholder engagement are important to achieving this. Telstra is subject to a range of regulatory requirements in the countries where we operate, including those related to sustainability issues. Our most significant regulatory requirements are outlined in the Corporate Governance Statement in our Annual Report. This can be accessed at www.telstra.com.au/annualreports UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT In December 2011, Telstra became a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, signalling our commitment to the highest levels of responsible business practice in the markets in which we operate. We are committed to aligning our operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our commitment to these principles and our communication on progress is reflected in our sustainability reporting. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 5 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA REFLECTING TELSTRA’S APPROACH HERITAGE, POSITION AND For Telstra, sustainability is a business approach that creates long-term CAPABILITIES, OUR FOCUS value by embracing the opportunities and managing the risks that arrise IS TO BRING THE SOCIAL from economic, environmental, social and technological developments. AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL Sustainability is embedded in our approach to our customers, our INTO THE HEART OF THE communities, our people and the environment. It is an important part of ORGANISATION IN WAYS THAT how we will achieve our vision to improve the way people live and work. CREATE VALUE. Material sustainability issues We undertake a formal and consultative approach to ensure that we identify and respond to key sustainability issues for Telstra. Our material sustainability issues are those that are most important to our business and our stakeholders. Our formal approach includes: > reviewing current and emerging sustainability issues impacting Telstra and the wider information and communications technology (ICT) industry > identifying economic, social, environmental and ethical issues of concern for our stakeholders > assessing our ability to influence the issues > ranking issues according to their importance to our stakeholders and significance to our business, including an assessment of risk* > seeking feedback through ongoing engagement with key stakeholder groups > presenting our findings and reporting on the issues to Telstra’s Sustainability Council. This process is based on AccountAbility’s AA1000 Principles Standard (2008), a widely used framework for the identification, prioritisation and response to an organisation’s key sustainability challenges. We undertake this annually. Telstra’s sustainability framework (p. 7) is built around five key pillars and indicates our broad goals and key sustainability issues. For more information on our approach to these issues, our progress and performance for 2011/12, and our commitments for 2012/13, see the Customer, People, Environment and Community Bigger Picture sustainability reports. Sustainability governance The Telstra Sustainability Council is the key governing body for sustainability at Telstra. It is chaired by our Chief Executive Officer, David Thodey, and comprises the Group’s Executive Leadership Team. The Council is responsible for the review and monitoring of Telstra’s sustainability approach and performance, and normally meets three times a year. Regular reports on progress are provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the Telstra Board. Telstra’s Chief Sustainability Officer provides the strategic leadership * Telstra’s risk management framework includes for sustainability at Telstra, manages the Chief Sustainability Office methodology and tools to assist with identifying, evaluating, prioritising and (CSO), which was established in late 2011, and is responsible for the managing risks to Telstra’s strategy, including implementation of our approach and programmes. During 2011/12, we social, ethical and environmental risks. integrated key functions from across Telstra into the CSO, recruited These risks are prioritised in terms of their impact on our customers, employees and other and appointed key executives, and developed Telstra’s first integrated stakeholders, and to our corporate reputation. sustainability approach and associated performance scorecard. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 6 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA FRAMEWORK TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 7 SUSTAINABILITY SCORECARD MONITORING, MEASURING AND REPORTING OUR PROGRESS HELPS US TO IMPROVE OUR PERFORMANCE. OUR CUSTOMERS 2011/12 2012/13 KPI OBJECTIVE 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 OBJECTIVE Customer satisfaction Moving to a Net 7.2 7.3 6.9 6.8 Score Promoter System TIO complaints Level 1 complaints per month No more than 2.0 1.9 3.1 No more than 1.5 per 10,000 SIOs Disability Action Plan 66% 75% 100% Percentage of commitments completed OUR PEOPLE Employee engagement 77% 77% 75% 75% 79% Survey score Health and safety Ahieve our 1.5 1.32 1.30 2.32 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) LTIFR target Gender diversity 25% 25.0% 22.7% 22.4% 25% Women in executive management Volunteering during Telstra time 1,500 1,375 5,000 Number of days Payroll Giving 3.0% 2.7% 3.5% 3.5% Participation rate OUR COMMUNITY Social and community investment Ongoing Ongoing $239.8 $248.0 $262.1 Total (millions of dollars) investment investment Everyone Connected (targeted Establish baseline community programmes) measure and 101,500 10% increase People impacted target OUR ENVIRONMENT Carbon emissions Minimise our Minimise our Tonnes of carbon dioxide 1,676,925 1,659,714 1,687,777 equivalent (tCO2e) impact impact Carbon emissions intensity 15% reduction to 1.24 1.93 15% reduction tCO2e per terabyte of data 1.64 e-waste (mobile phones) 14.5 tonnes 14.3 tonnes 14.3 17.3 18.9 Tonnes collected collected collected See our Customer, People, Environment and Community Bigger Picture sustainability reports for more information on our approach to these issues, our progress and performance for 2011/12 and our commitments for 2012/13. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 8 ETHICS, VALUES AND GOVERNANCE WE STRIVE FOR AN Gifts, Prizes and Hospitality Policy investigations, recommendations ENVIRONMENT AND and our Privacy Policy. We also and the implementation of CULTURE THAT SETS formalised a Business Continuity actions. The Audit Committee CLEAR EXPECTATIONS FOR Management Policy to reinforce oversees the whistleblowing RESPONSIBLE AND ETHICAL our commitment to minimising the programme, receives reports BEHAVIOUR. impact of adverse events, such as from the Ethics Committee and natural disasters, on customers provides an escalation channel for and the community. the Ethics Committee APPROACH where required. The Telstra Group Code of Conduct In 2011/12, each wholly owned and Business Principles set out subsidiary conducted a review As at 1 July 2011, there were the practices, principles and to compare its existing policies 12 whistleblowing alerts open. standards of behaviour we expect to Telstra’s policy suite and to During 2011/12, 37 whistleblowing employees and contractors to implement or update policies, to alerts were received and 45 were adopt in performing their work. address any gaps. Changes were closed. As at 30 June 2012, four They define our commitment communicated to staff in these remain open. to best practice corporate organisations. Our wholly owned Compliance training governance, responsible business subsidiaries have now adopted Compliance training is an practice, our customers, our the Telstra Group Code of Conduct integral element of Telstra’s workforce, society and the and Business Principles, as well compliance framework. It ensures environment. Company policies as company policies consistent employees are aware of their expand on expected behaviours with Telstra’s company policies legal, regulatory and compliance and provide specific guidance as appropriate, subject to the responsibilities. All new starters to give effect to our relevant entity’s circumstances, are required to complete a suite Business Principles. the nature of its operations of online compliance training and the jurisdiction in which it courses, including training on our To find out more visit operates. Telstra Group Code of Conduct www.telstra.com.au/governance Whistleblowing and Business Principles, and Telstra encourages staff to take company policies. Mandatory action if they have any concerns compliance refresher training TELSTRA VALUES about unethical, illegal or is also completed annually, with Service & Respect improper behaviour occurring each compliance topic covered Integrity & Trust within the organisation. Telstra every two years. We have strict has a Whistleblowing Policy and mechanisms in place to monitor Teamwork & Accountability a confidential and anonymous and report completion rates. whistleblowing service which In 2011/12, we enhanced PROGRESS enables staff to report such these courses to improve their Company documents and policies behaviour. The process is effectiveness, make them more Our company policies are regularly supported by an independent user-friendly and interactive, and reviewed and updated, as part of service provider specialising to ensure they are up-to-date with our policy governance programme, in receiving sensitive reports the latest laws and regulations. to ensure they are relevant, or disclosures. Telstra’s Ethics 98 per cent of those enrolled in the up-to-date and comply with Committee, which consists refresher training which covered the latest laws and regulations. of senior managers, monitors our Telstra Group Code of Conduct In 2011/12, we reviewed and all reports and disclosures and Business Principles and our enhanced our Conflicts of Interest made under this process. company policies, completed and Outside Activities Policy, our This committee also monitors the course. PLANNED ACTION STATUS Undertake a full review of the Telstra policy suite in conjunction with the subsidiary company policies in all of Telstra’s 100% owned on-shore and off-shore subsidiaries to ensure consistency and address gaps. ACHIEVED | PARTIALLY ACHIEVED | NOT ACHIEVED NEXT STEPS – 2012/13 > Review the compliance training that is provided to our contractors to ensure consistency across the business. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 9 ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION TELSTRA HAS ZERO TOLERANCE APPROACH PROGRESS OF BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION. Telstra’s Anti-Bribery and In 2011/12, we continued to Anti-Corruption Policy states improve our systems and that bribes, pay-offs, secret increase awareness of the commissions, kick-backs and ethical standards we expect of any like payments (including our employees. In response to facilitation payments) are strictly legislation introduced in the UK prohibited. Staff should never and our exposure to US legislation make, accept, or agree to make through ownership of securities, or accept, such payments. The we conducted a bribery risk policy also states that when staff workshop with representatives give or receive a gift, prize or from across the Telstra Group hospitality, they must consider and undertook an internal the implications to ensure that it awareness-raising campaign. cannot reasonably be considered The risk workshop resulted in the a bribe, pay-off or kick-back, or development of a risk register and be construed as being likely to an action plan to address the risks improperly influence a business identified. outcome. The policy aims to ensure that Telstra complies with applicable anti-bribery and anticorruption laws and regulations. Our Fraud, Criminal and Corrupt Conduct Policy provides a framework and specific processes for dealing with fraudulent, criminal and corrupt conduct. Telstra does not make political donations. However, like other major publicly listed companies, we do pay fees to attend events organised by political parties where those events allow for discussion on major policy issues with key opinion leaders and policy makers. NEXT STEPS – 2012/13 > Establish a stand-alone bribery programme under Telstra’s Compliance and Corporate Ethics framework. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 10 HUMAN RIGHTS TELSTRA VALUES AND APPROACH potentially different business and RESPECTS HUMAN RIGHTS. We recognise the human rights social contexts. Our approach of our employees, customers, encompasses labour rights, suppliers and contractors as non-discrimination, diversity well as the individuals and and inclusion, digital inclusion, communities affected by our customer service and credit activities. We commit to support management, privacy, stakeholder and respect the principles of engagement, whistleblowing, human rights set out in the UN security, compliance with law Global Compact and the Universal enforcement, cyber safety as well Declaration of Human Rights. as our procurement practices This commitment is defined in and environmental management our company-wide Human Rights practices. Policy and is supported by our Values and Business Principles. PROGRESS With the UN Human Rights Council Telstra’s Human Rights Policy endorsement of the Guiding recognises that our efforts Principles on Business and Human to respect human rights take Rights and various corporate place in varying socio-economic responses to this, in 2012/13 we conditions, in different countries, will be reviewing our approach to and amongst diverse individuals human rights. This is to ensure and communities. These social that we continue to live up to considerations can affect parts the standards in our Business of our business in different Principles and that we have ways. As such, the effectiveness effective communications and of our commitment to respect compliance mechanisms in place. human rights depends on the See our Customer, People, relationship of our company Environment and Community policies, management methods, Bigger Picture sustainability community investment reports for more specific programmes and participation in information on our approach to voluntary initiatives. Accordingly, these issues, our progress and our approach does not consist performance for 2011/12 and our of a single action or initiative but commitments for 2012/13. of the entirety of our actions in NEXT STEPS – 2012/13 > Review Telstra’s Human Rights Policy and approach, including an assessment of risk, systems for compliance, employee training, communication and reporting. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 11 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT EFFECTIVE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IS AN IMPORTANT We define our key stakeholders PROGRESS VALUE-CREATING ACTIVITY FOR as individuals or groups who The tables following provide an TELSTRA. have a significant and ongoing overview of our key stakeholder influence on, or are significantly groups, their interests and impacted by, Telstra’s operations concerns and the ways in which APPROACH and activities. Our Stakeholder Developing high quality we engage with each of them. For Engagement Policy describes more specific information on how relationships with key the principles that underpin we engaged with key stakeholders stakeholders, communicating Telstra’s approach to stakeholder on our material sustainability with them regularly, and actively engagement (inclusivity, issues in 2011/12, see our seeking and considering their materiality, responsiveness and Customer, People, Environment views helps us to learn and transparency) and principles for and Community Bigger Picture innovate, informs strategic developing quality relationships sustainability reports. direction, drives operational with our stakeholders (trust, excellence, and helps align mutuality, commitment and our operations with societal satisfaction). expectations. COMMUNITIES INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS Telstra operates in Communities are concerned Telstra Foundation engages on issues impacting communities across the about access to services and the lives of children and young people. metropolitan, regional and the impact of our business on Consultation on mobile phone base station siting. remote areas of Australia. local communities. Our communities include We engage with key government and other non-profit organisations. stakeholders at a local level via Telstra Country Wide. CUSTOMERS INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS Our customers include Our customers are interested Telstra Disability Forum and Disability Equipment residential consumers, in the quality, affordability and Programme Consumer Advisory Group. small to medium enterprises accessibility of our products Low Income Measures Assessment Committee and large companies and services, and the privacy provides advice on the effectiveness of Telstra’s and organisations and and security of their personal low-income package. government. information and services. Telstra stores, contact centres, Telstra.com and Customer Experience Centres. Ongoing marketing and research. EMPLOYEES INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS Telstra’s workforce is large Our employees have a Annual Employee Engagement Survey. and diverse with close to broad range of concerns, Employees can raise and discuss ideas and solve 40,000 employees. including working conditions, issues via T[ideas]. development opportunities and health and safety and Networks including The Bigger Picture Network, issues affecting their local Gender Equality Network and EcoChamps. communities. Direct feedback to the CEO via the internal blog – the ‘CEO’s Desk’. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 12 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GOVERNMENT INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS Our government Telstra communicates Telstra senior leadership, Government and stakeholders are at local, regularly with governments Corporate Affairs teams and Telstra Country Wide. state and national levels, on a range of commercial, Our Regulatory Affairs team manages our from ministers and leaders policy, regulatory and other relationship with statutory regulators and industry to department staff. matters in the interests of its bodies. shareholders, customers and employees. We participate in regular discussions with local, state and federal government agencies. Our Enterprise & Government business unit engages with government customers. INDUSTRY INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS These stakeholders Industry stakeholders are Telstra is a member of key ICT industry groups, include information interested in issues impacting including the Communications Alliance and and communication the telecommunications the Australian Mobile Telecommunications technology (ICT) and industry, including regulation, Association. telecommunications specific market trends, consumer As a member of the Mobile Carriers Forum, we associations. protection, and technology engage on social and environmental issues related and service developments. to mobile phone networks. Telstra is a member of the Australian Industry Group and the Business Council of Australia. INVESTMENT COMMUNITY INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS This stakeholder group Investors and analysts are Annual Investor Day. includes institutional concerned with the risk and The Investor Centre is a dedicated resource for investors and sell-side return of their investment, and shareholders and potential investors. analysts. the ability of the company to meets its objectives. Our Investor Relations team. MEDIA INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS Includes representatives Telstra is one of the most Telstra engages regularly with the media through from print, radio, TV and widely scrutinised and our Chief Executive Officer, senior executives, online media. reported companies in media spokespeople and corporate affairs Australia. managers. SHAREHOLDERS INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS Telstra has 1.4 million Shareholders are interested Telstra keeps shareholders informed through shareholders. in financial returns, company Annual General Meetings, an annual report and performance and governance shareholder updates. issues. The Investor Centre is a dedicated resource for shareholders. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 13 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SUPPLIERS INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS Telstra engages with Suppliers are interested Our vendor managers engage with suppliers around 8,000 suppliers in secure and stable throughout and after the sourcing process. each year with total spend relationships with Telstra. The Supplying to Telstra website provides advice to around $6.2 billion. prospective and current suppliers. UNIONS INTERESTS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT METHODS Telstra engages with its Unions are interested Telstra regularly engages with employee trade relevant employee trade in employee rights and unions and their representatives under the Fair unions. entitlements, and mitigating Work Act 2009 and our collective agreements. the impact of workplace Unions and other bargaining representatives are change on employees. also engaged in good faith bargaining for new employee enterprise agreements. NEXT STEPS – 2012/13 > Review Telstra’s Stakeholder Engagement policy and approach, including systems for compliance, employee training, communication and reporting. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 14 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT IN 2011/12, TELSTRA PROGRESS sustainability awareness and to PURCHASED $6.2 BILLION IN In 2011/12, we reviewed Telstra’s develop a Telstra Supplier Code GOODS AND SERVICES FROM Environmental Guidelines for of Conduct. MORE THAN 8,000 SUPPLIERS. Packaging to ensure they meet the We were not able to provide Australian Packaging Covenant training this year as planned for APPROACH design, recycling and product our Indigenous suppliers. We are The sheer number of suppliers stewardship requirements. As committed to ensuring a diverse and the size of spend puts Telstra a result, we consolidated and supply chain, and next year we in a strong position to influence simplified our Environmental will embed consideration of the environmental and social Packaging Checklist for suppliers. all minority suppliers into our standards of our suppliers. As part of our standard suite of tender processes. We will also Telstra’s Business Principles tendering questions, we have now ensure that implementing our provide an overarching framework mandated that for our office ICT supplier code of conduct does to ensure that we operate equipment, products provided not adversely impact minority ethically and with integrity in must meet Electronic Product suppliers. purchasing goods and services Environmental Assessment Through our Supported Workforce and in conducting business with Tool (EPEAT®) silver standard Project, we partner with local suppliers. Our Environmental or equivalent. EPEAT® is a non-profit groups to create Purchasing Guidelines and Ethical comprehensive environmental employment opportunities for Purchasing Policy aim to ensure rating that helps identify greener people with disability or who are consideration of environmental desktop computers and laptops. otherwise disadvantaged. We now and social issues in all purchasing In 2011/12, we also established have 12 community organisations decisions. These have been a Sustainable Procurement employing more than 180 people incorporated into Telstra’s Working Group to help advance contracted at Telstra sites around Strategic Sourcing and Vendor sustainability initiatives in Australia, to clean and maintain Management processes. procurement at Telstra. The Telstra exchanges. The project priorities for this group in provides meaningful employment the coming year are to build to community members with procurement employees’ disability and meets a business need for Telstra. PLANNED ACTION STATUS Review guidelines supporting Telstra Purchasing Environment Policy to incorporate consideration of packaging. Provide training for Indigenous suppliers on how best to respond to Telstra tendering requirements. ACHIEVED | PARTIALLY ACHIEVED | NOT ACHIEVED NEXT STEPS – 2012/13 > Complete Telstra’s Supplier Code of Conduct and implementation plan. > Integrate consideration of minority suppliers into our tender processes. TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 15 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABLE AT TELSTRA PROCUREMENT REPORTING FRAMEWORKS We develop our reporting with reference to industry and sustainability standards including the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (UNGC CoP), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Telecommunications Sector Supplement (pilot); and the London Benchmarking Group Corporate Community Investment Guidelines. This year, we apply the GRI framework to a level B+. You can access our GRI Index, including how we meet our UNCG commitments at www.telstra.com.au/sustainability ASSURANCE To provide confidence to our stakeholders in our reporting: > We use the AA1000 Principles Standard 2008 to prepare our 2011/12 reporting and establish control processes and quality checks to manage the accuracy of information. > Banarra provides moderate assurance, in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008, of the sustainability component of our 2012 Annual Review and of the Bigger Picture sustainability reporting series. > Ernst & Young provides limited assurance, in accordance with the ISAE3000 standard, over environment data included in the 2012 Annual Review and Bigger Picture sustainability series. You can access these assurance statements at www.telstra.com.au/sustainability VOLUNTARY SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Telstra participates in the following voluntary initiatives to guide, benchmark or measure our sustainability performance: > Australian Packaging Covenant (since 2001) > Carbon Disclosure Project (since 2003) > Dow Jones Sustainability Index (since 2001) > FTSE4Good Index (included since 2002) > Global Reporting Initiative (framework applied since 2008) > London Benchmarking Group (since 2007) > United Nations Global Compact (since 2011) FEEDBACK We welcome your feedback on our sustainability reporting. Please contact Natalie Falzon at sustainability@team.telstra.com TELSTRA OUR APPROACH | 16
