Communication on Progress 2012 1 Ladies and We are pleased to present you with our second report on the progress of our Gentlemen activities which stem from the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. 2 Communication on Progress 2012 I am aware that Budimex still needs to face up to a number Since last year, we have been pursuing the goals we had of challenges in terms of its sustainable development and set for ourselves for the years 2011-2012, which consticorporate social responsibility, both of which we want to tute an amendment to the Budimex “CSR policy”, officially fully embrace. However, since the UN Secretary General adopted across the Group. Goals related directly to the himself joined the initiative, we have managed to execution of the 10 Global Compact principles make substantial headway and I am confident include Budimex Group’s adoption of the Code that the time and resources we have dedicated of Ethics and the implementation of related conto our activity in these areas will translate into trol mechanisms – including the appointment of an measureable long-term advantages. Ethics Committee, which examines cases of posBudimex was the first general contracting sible infringement of the Code’s provisions. By company in Poland to issue a corporate social means of including appropriate clauses in our responsibility report in 2001, attaining a B+ on the GRI contracts with suppliers and subcontractors, we standard, and which was subject to independent extercan influence them so that they comply with our ethical nal verification. and environmental standards. Direct tools which help us to achieve that goal are audits of our business partners. 3 Communication on Progress 2012 Our original social responsibility programme, known as the RESPECT Index, which focuses on the securities of the “ICE Intercom”, conducted in schools located near the the most responsibly managed Polish publicly-listed comsites where Budimex’s contracts are executed, promotes panies. The Warsaw Stock Exchange reviews the index traffic safety rules and equips schoolchildren from grades every six months. 0-3 with ICE (In Case of Emergency) Cards. This is The activities which stem from the 10 princideveloping rapidly, with more than 6,000 chilples of the Global Compact are now part of our dren all over Poland now carrying ICE cards on organization, and I am convinced that if we follow their backpacks in reflective cases. the path of sustainable development, it will be only Voluntary work projects targeted at local comnatural to comply with them in future as well. munities have now become a fixture in our calendar of corporate events. In 2011 we ran 6 campaigns, involving 775 employees. The high quality of our business management is confirmed Dariusz Blocher by our steady presence among companies included in President of the Management Board of Budimex SA 4 Human rights and ••Supporting and respecting human rights accepted by the international community. Work standards ••Eliminating any violations of human rights by the company. ••Respecting the freedom of association. ••Eliminating all forms of forced labour. ••Abolishing child labour. ••Effectively combating employment discrimination. 5 Communication Human rights and on Progress 2012 work standards Budimex respects the freedom of association of its employdecent working conditions for its employees and creees. 3 trade unions operate within the Group. In 2011, ates an environment which opens broad opportunities employee delegates were not a party to any collective disfor professional development and promotion; the Computes with their employer. The Company has followed its pany also makes every effort to ensure that the organiCode of Ethics since 2010. Last year, the Code was sation is open to people with various levels of implemented across the whole Budimex Group. professional experience”. In the section entitled “Areas of specific comCompliance with the provisions of the Code of pliance with ethical values”, Budimex asserts Ethics is supervised by the Ethics Committee, that it “does not tolerate any form of discrimiappointed by the Management Board of Budimex. nation or the imposition of any dominant worldThe role of the Committee is to monitor the view, especially on the grounds of gender, origin, compliance of the applied professional ethics religion, age, political views or the position held; in standards with the provisions of the Code of Ethics. The its everyday relationships with employees, the Company Committee examines cases of violation of the provisions does not accept the invasion of privacy or the abuse of of the Code and provides guidelines as regards complyposition to achieve private goals; the Company ensures ing with its principles, while at the same time maintain6 Communication Human rights and on Progress 2012 work standards ing confidentiality standards. Each employee may notify the Committee anonymously of any cases of violation of the Code of Ethics. Among the cases brought before the Committee in 2011, there were no instances of employees complaining about employment discrimination or Budimex’s violation of human rights. All newly hired staff members are obliged to become acquainted with the provisions of the Code. In 2011, there were 1,264 such people. The Budimex Work Rules, in Sections 2 and 5, safeguard the respect for human rights and counteract employment discrimination. Budimex does not employ children, as stipulated in Section 14 of the new Work Rules. In 2011, no cases of forced or child labour were detected at Budimex. 7 Natural ••A preventive approach to the natural environment. ••Undertaking initiatives to promote environment environmentally responsible attitudes. ••Applying and disseminating environmentally friendly technologies. 8 Communication Natural on Progress 2012 environment Budimex follows Procedure “Environmental Managethe basic dissemination platform was an internal ment in Contracts”, intended to decrease the negative information portal. The programme’s website regiseffect of the company’s construction works on the tered 910 visits, with around 400 employees worknatural environment. Among the initiatives intended ing in the offices. to promote environmentally responsible attiIn 2011 Budimex continued replacing its car tudes adopted in 2011 by Budimex, the folfleet with new cars with top environmenlowing programmes are especially worth tal performance. 227 vehicles were replaced, mentioning: which allowed the company to save 204,300 • Donate your phone to the EcoCollection litres of gas and to reduce CO2 emissions • Let’s save water! by 265,690 tons. Some of the materials • We are all saving electricity used in construction works come from recy• Let’s save paper in our offices cling. In 2011, the majority of recycled materials used Due to the Company’s specific business profile, the in the construction process were ash and slag mixprogrammes were intended for office workers, and tures from the wet discharge of boiler grate residue 9 Communication Natural on Progress 2012 environment (576,766.4 tons), as well as cores and casting moulds from the iron casting process, free of hazardous substances (2,571.8 tons). Training programmes for the management team and environmental coordinators at newly opened construction projects are run on a regular basis. In 2011 almost 1,000 people took part in such environmental training programmes. 10 Preventing ••Combating all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. corruption 11 Communication Preventing on Progress 2012 corruption The Budimex management team participates in a special were analysed and verified by the Internal Control training programme addressing the issues of corrupOffice or by employees of the Human Resources Mantion, attempted corruption and intimidation, as well as agement Department. The Ethics Committee decided safety as it is broadly understood. In 2011, 128 peoto take measures which in future will make it possible ple participated in the training. In addition, the to avoid similar unethical behaviour of the Budimex Group Code of Ethics includes prosubcontractors or enable the use of measvisions clearly condemning any form of corures which guarantee the appropriate protecruption. According to the report on the activtion of Budimex employees and make it possible ities of the Committee of Ethics of Budimex to hold people responsible for their unethiSA, in 2011 the Committee examined 9 cases. cal actions. Templates of agreements used Most of them concerned activities which could by Budimex include provisions ensuring the be seen as attempts to corrupt a contract manager by right to withdraw from an agreement if any corruption subcontractors performing works under the contract. activities are detected. At the same time, a new manual All such cases brought to the Committee’s attention was developed – “How to react to proposals of bribery 12 Communication Preventing on Progress 2012 corruption and cases of intimidation of employees”, which provides guidelines as to how to act if an employee is offered financial inducements for specific actions or refraining from action related to the execution of a particular contract, as well as in the case of intimidation. 13 Budimex SA ul. Stawki 40 01-040 Warszawa tel. (48 22) 623 60 00 fax (48 22) 623 60 01 www.budimex.pl 14
