MAKING MODERN LIVING POSSIBLE Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 www.danfoss.com Continued support for Global Compact Niels B. Christiansen President & CEO In 2002, the Danfoss Group joined the UN Global Compact Initiative. Since then, the group has contributed to ensuring that the ten principles are an integrated part of the business strategy. The principles still represent the structure of the Danfoss policies on environmental and social responsibility. In 2003, Danfoss published its first report on social responsibility and has continuously been working on developing the company's way of surveying and reporting on Corporate Citizenship. Danfoss' Corporate Citizenship report is also the Communication on Progress report to the UN. The report describes the initiatives Danfoss has taken during the past year and the results of the work with Global Compact. The Danfoss Group will continue to support the UN’s Global Compact Initiative and the ten principles. 2 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Corporate Citizenship Danfoss wishes to run its business based in an environmental, social and Therefore, Danfoss has reviewed which issues are important to the group and financial sustainable manner and has decided to use Corporate Citizenship its stakeholders. This review was based on GRI the Global Reporting Initiaas a joint notion for the activities relating to social responsibility, the environtive’s guidelines and the international standard ISO 26000. The figure shows ment and the working environment. the most material subjects. The group has chosen the UN Global Compact as a framework for its work The reporting includes all companies in the group where Danfoss holds the with environmental and social responsibility and is also committed to majority of shares. However, environment and climate data is only collected supporting the initiative Caring for Climate , which means that Danfoss has from factories with more than 20 employees, and sales offices do not contribset itself a number of specific goals to reduce its global CO2 emissions. ute environmental data. Information regarding Sauer-Danfoss is not included Each year, Danfoss reports to the UN (Communication on Progress) about its in the reporting. work with the ten principles. In 2011, Danfoss chose to integrate the report into the Corporate Citizenship report. This report is also available on unglobalDanfoss is represented in a number of countries all over the world. Danfoss compact.org. has a total of 16,949 employees of which approx. 10,500 are working in For further details, please refer to the GRI table and the tables with significant Europe, approx. 4,000 in China and approx. 2,000 in the USA (incl. Mexico). data at the back of this report. Special information on Sauer-Danfoss Scope and external verification of reporting Even though Danfoss holds the majority of shares in Sauer-Danfoss, our Danfoss has decided to have the annual Corporate Citizenship reporting environmental and social responsibility policies have not yet been verified by an external and independent third party – DNV (Det Norske Veriimplemented in Sauer-Danfoss. This is due to the fact that Sauer-Danfoss is tas). An important criterion in the verification is that Danfoss works with the listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), where they have special rules most material matters and that this is reflected in the group's reporting. governing company activities. The initiatives of Sauer-Danfoss within the area of Corporate Citizenship are laid down in a number of globally applicable policies and guidelines. Working Environment Climate change Sauer-Danfoss has developed guidelines of legal and ethical behavior called Labour Practices Anti-corruption Worldwide Code of Legal and Ethical Business Conduct . Here, requirements Society & Supply Chain for the managers and employees regarding handling of competition law, Community conflicts of interest, anti-corruption, customer and supplier relations and Products & Fair marketing & Services Anti-trust employee conditions, such as discrimination and equal treatment, are laid down. Recruitment & Rerention Importance to stakeholders Unions Sauer-Danfoss has also drawn up a code of conduct for suppliers for the purpose of ensuring that all suppliers know and respect the requirements Waste & Emissions within a number of areas. Child labor, forced labor, working hours and salary Diversity & conditions are among the topics in the Sauer-Danfoss Code of Conduct. Equality Furthermore, Sauer-Danfoss collects information on the company's environHuman Rights mental impact, which, among other things, is used to assess the factories' Natural compliance with the legislation and requirements in international standards Biodiversity resources like ISO 14001. Responsibility for Corporate Citizenship The Danfoss Executive Committee holds overall responsibility for Corporate Citizenship. The Danfoss Corporate Ethics & Compliance department prepares Low Medium High Relevance to Danfoss guidelines and directions for good corporate ethics and monitors and reports Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 3 on whether Danfoss’ Ethical rules are complied with. The establishment of The ongoing reporting of resources, waste and other impacts on the environCorporate Ethics & Compliance forms part of a reinforced effort to comply ment and working environment ensures that Danfoss gets an overall global with legislation and ethics, and Corporate Citizenship & Sustainability, which view of its handling of the environmental impact. oversees environmental and social responsibility, is part of this department. All information serves as the basis for the preparation of the environment section in the Corporate Citizenship report, which is verified by DNV (Det Danfoss has an Ethics Handbook describing which guidelines each individual Norske Veritas) each year to ensure a true and fair view of the impact Danfoss manager and employee must comply with at any time. Everybody is responhas on the environment and working environment. sible for complying with the guidelines and for reporting any breaches to the management or the Danfoss Ethics Hotline. Managers hold special responsiAll suppliers must sign the Danfoss Code of Conduct, which comprises rules bility because they have to ensure that all their employees know and underfor social and environmental responsibility. All current suppliers must sign the stand the ethical guidelines and Danfoss' expectations with regard to correct Code of Conduct upon renewal of their contract or when updating it. behavior. All future suppliers will furthermore be asked to complete a self-assessment form regarding the Danfoss Code of Conduct. A number of internal policies and tools ensure that the Danfoss rules of social responsibility, ethics and the environment are communicated and Danfoss conducts environmental assessments of all potential acquisitions. implemented. Danfoss' intranet and other internal media play an important This environmental due diligence ensures that Danfoss receives in-depth role when it comes to communicating, for example, ethical guidelines, just as information on the environmental situation and potential business risks of the Ethics Hotline and data collection through surveys and the Code of new companies. Conduct Information System offer valuable information on how the rules are complied with. Reporting on breach of ethical guidelines Reporting on any breach of the ethical guidelines can be done through the Reporting and supervision of Corporate Citizenship ordinary management and reporting structures or through Danfoss’ whistleEach year, Danfoss conducts a CSR survey at all its factories and sales compablower function, the Ethics Hotline, where an external company receives and nies, covering human rights, labor rights, business ethics and anti-corruption. registers the reports. The purpose of external handling is to ensure the highest Danfoss also carries out the annual People Managers Survey among all possible degree of professionalism when handling the cases. Moreover, it managers with responsibility for personnel management focusing on helps to ensure the required level of data security. business ethics. When the external company has registered a report, it is presented to the Visits are paid to selected Danfoss companies for the purpose of assessing Danfoss Ethics Committee. All requests will be investigated promptly, upon how they handle matters of social responsibility and to establish and maintain which corrective measures will be initiated. The Ethics Committee may decide a constructive dialogue with the local management on Danfoss' Corporate to submit the case to the Danfoss Board if considered necessary. Citizenship activities. Danfoss requires that all factories maintain an environmental management system in line with the requirements of the international standard on environmental management, ISO 14001, and that the system must be certified. The parts of the group which are certified in line with environmental and working environment management standards are audited by external companies. 4 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Responsibility and Ethics Dialogue through social media also introduced an ethics module as a permanent part of the induction In 2011, Danfoss began to integrate social media into the procedure in a more program for new managers in Denmark. In 2011, approx. 50 new managers structured way than previously. Today, Danfoss is globally represented on were trained in ethics. YouTube, Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. However, local social media are also used for dialogue with our stakeholders. For instance, in China Danfoss has Consequences of unethical behavior had great success in using the Chinese social media Weibo and RenRen in In 2011, Danfoss said goodbye to 26 employees as a consequence of a campaign to recruit new employees. unethical behavior, compared to 40 in 2010. The number includes both Even though Danfoss is still at an early stage when it comes integrating social dismissals and voluntary resignations in connection with cases of ethical media into business, there is increasing potential to enter into a dialogue with matters being raised. The unethical behavior dealt with includes: theft and stakeholders through these channels. unethical handling of the group's resources (five cases); manipulation of time or illness reporting and/or non-performance (four cases); misuse of confidenPlease find an overview of Danfoss' official presence in social media on tial information (two cases); conflicts of interest where, for instance, www.danfoss.com/socialmedia. employees have caused a conflict of interest with the Danfoss Group through their relation to other companies (four cases); substance abuse (one case), Social responsibility and ethics bad behavior, for example harassment or violence (seven cases), bribery This section covers Danfoss' work with human rights, labor rights, anti-corrupattempts (one case) and other cases which do not easily fit into a category tion and ethics. (two cases). In cases involving the suspicion of bribery, it is often difficult to lift the burden of proof of the alleged bribery. However, in spite of such difficulties, As a result of Danfoss' competition case, among other things, the primary Danfoss finds it extremely important to get to the bottom of these cases. activity in 2011 in the area of CSR has been to prepare and implement an ethics e-learning program which targets all people managers. The competiMany cases of unethical behavior are handled in the line organizations, tion case is described on page 16 in Danfoss’ Annual report 2011. The program whereas others are handled through the Ethics Hotline, which is an extra is based on Danfoss' Ethics Handbook and concentrates especially on channel for reporting unethical behavior. In 2011, 15 of the 26 cases in which avoiding the violation of legislation on competition matters and anti-corrupemployment was terminated were reported through the Ethics Hotline, while tion. However, subjects such as equal treatment and anti-discrimination are the figure was four out of 40 cases in 2010. also present in the training. The e-learning is based on a combination of real cases concerning difficult situations which have been solved by managers at Human and workers' rights at Danfoss Danfoss, fictitious dilemmas and training in identifying red lights that Human rights include a number of fundamental rights, such as the right to indicate unethical behavior. The e-learning ends with a test and the food, housing, health, work and decent working conditions. They also include participants must answer a minimum of 80% of questions correctly to pass. the four labor rights mentioned in the UN Global Compact (the right to avoid forced labor, child labor and discrimination and the right to a free choice of The ethics training is targeted at people managers as they are primarily union). responsible for spreading knowledge of and enforcing the ethical guidelines among their employees. In 2011, the 700 top managers were called in to In this Corporate Citizenship Report, we focus on the human rights and labor receive ethical training, while the remaining approx. 1,500 people managers rights which are particularly relevant for companies. will complete the training in 2012. Apart from e-learning, Danfoss continued the existing face-to-face training in ethics in 2011, where a total of 201 Employees' right to privacy Chinese managers and HR employees completed this training. Danfoss has Danfoss wants to respect their employees' right to privacy, both because it is Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 5 6 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 a fundamental human right and also to avoid the risk of discrimination. Health Discrimination tests are one of the areas in which organizations may risk discrimination, and During 2011, Danfoss had five discrimination cases. Three of the cases companies within the group are therefore encouraged to be cautious when occurred at a factory in the USA, where complaints were filed in connection using tests in employment situations, unless such tests have to be done with dismissal. Three employees claimed that their severance terms were according to local legislation. unfair. The cases were filed to the EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunity Danfoss respects local legislation; however, special efforts are made to avoid Commission). Two of the complaints were rejected as unfounded and the last discrimination. Therefore, the use of health tests and the circumstances complaint is still pending. surrounding them are supervised. A dismissed employee from another factory in the USA complained to the Illinois Department of Human Rights/EEOC. The employee claimed to had In 2011, Danfoss' CSR survey showed that a number of companies used been discriminated against due to race and religion. Danfoss won the case different types of health tests, both in connection with existing employees and has consequently trained all employees at the factory in questions of and when hiring new employees. Drugs tests are commonly used in a number diversity and the prevention of harassment. The last case was about a lack of of companies in the USA, Mexico and Poland. This is done to ensure a good adjustment of pay during maternity leave at the factory in Bulgaria. and safe working environment. Forced labor 16 companies report that they used X-ray examinations of employees in 2011. The use of prison labor can be an aspect of forced labor. The work must be This is done in areas where the risk of pulmonary tuberculosis prevails. voluntary and under working conditions where conventions on the use of Danfoss' Chief Physician has assessed that the risk of getting pulmonary prison labor are complied with. tuberculosis justifies the health risks of X-rays. The result of the examination Two of Danfoss' factories in Denmark and Romania have suppliers that use has no consequences for the employment. prison labor. In both situations, UN rules on prison labor are complied with. In 2011, five companies used X-ray examinations of applicants. This was the Working time conditions case in China, Taiwan and Slovakia, where there is a risk of pulmonary tubercuDanfoss binds itself to respect the ILO's core conventions, for example on losis. In China, employees requested the test as they want to protect working time. The ILO convention enjoins that employees cannot work more themselves from the danger of infection. Any infected applicants can be hired than 48 hours a week + 12 hours of overtime during a maximum of three after treatment is ended. weeks. Child labor Working time is a complex topic with a lot of facets, in which the pros and The subject of child labor involves a number of dilemmas. If there is no access cons need to be weighed up. Some of the important factors in connection to paid work in industry or agriculture, the alternative can be prostitution, with avoiding overtime are to have a regular inflow of orders, good producwhich is far worse. tion planning and quality control, so that production is running smoothly When juveniles are employed, it is important that the ILO conventions on without too many extra processes. child labor are adhered to. Therefore, juveniles aged 15-18 must be above the compulsory school age, they cannot carry out dangerous work or work at Too much overtime is one of the most frequent violations of labor rights, night, and they must have more breaks than their adult colleagues. especially on the Chinese labor market. Working time is therefore one of the In 2011, Danfoss employed 48 juveniles aged 15-18, typically in connection issues that are addressed in connection with factory visits and when Danfoss with an apprenticeship. arranges external audits at suppliers. Inclusion and diversity In 2010, Danfoss arranged for external audits at three of the Chinese factories. In 2011, 81% of managers in the Danfoss Group were men at a global level, Here, random samples of employees' working time during the peak season whereas 19% were women. The numbers remain unchanged compared with revealed that the maximum allowed working time were exceeded in all three the previous two years. The Danfoss management consists of 29% of Danish factories. Action plans were drawn up at each factory and activities were initiorigin, 16% of Chinese origin and 6.5% of American origin. ated across a number of functions to ensure that the problem was addressed In Denmark, the distribution of managers is 84% men and 16% women. In all at the relevant places in the organization. Now, follow-up procedures have regions, except Latin America, two thirds of all employees are men. been set up and managers check the overtime levels on a monthly basis. In many different ways, Danfoss makes sure that people with a disability, The Danfoss factories in China are implementing Danfoss' Productivity reduced ability to work or the like, may also work in the organization. The CSR Program, which will optimize the production processes and improve producsurvey showed that 50% of companies have programs or procedures for tivity. This will also, in the long term, reduce the amount of overtime. appointing people with physical or mental disabilities; that 14% of companies provide for employment of former criminals and that one third of the compaIn 2011, Danfoss recorded a drop in overtime at the three Chinese factories, nies make special efforts in connection with socially marginalized groups. which, apart from the activities mentioned, can also be explained by a more Almost half of all companies allow their employees to practise their religion normalized order rate than in 2010; a year characterized by huge growth. In during working hours. 2011, Danfoss only recorded overtime at one of the three factories. The Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 7 Engagement in the local community 8 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 factory in question has periodically been challenged by lack of raw materials, • The UN Caring for Climate Initiative an issue which also affects other factories in the electronics industry. Also, the • The Danish Council for Sustainable Business Development factory is located in an area where overtime is in demand. Positive footprint in the local community It is important to Danfoss to have a well-managed HR department, a departIn several of the local communities where Danfoss is present, the group plays ment which ensures that the number of employees is sufficient to handle the an important and positive role. This is the case in Mexico, for instance, where tasks. In several places, however, the challenge lies in recruiting employees if Danfoss has a factory with 700 employees. Here, Danfoss is a member of overtime is not an option. Migrant workers in particular wish to work overtime “Asociación de Maquiladoras y Manufactureras de Exportación de Nuevo to earn as much as possible so as to be able to return to their native region as León, A.C”, an organization consisting of 180 import/export businesses. Here, soon as possible. they have decided to make an effort to solve the largest problem in the local community: crime, which affects both families and companies. Together with The right to organize the TEC University in Monterrey, the organization has worked out an analysis Danfoss respects the right to freely choose a union and to make collective of the causes of crime and identified lack of values and opportunities as the bargaining. In countries where free choice of union is not possible, Danfoss most important action area. Like the other member companies, Danfoss has establishes other channels for employees and managers to meet and discuss adopted a school in the community and is working with fundamental values, work-related questions. A total of three companies state that they do not have such as the value of children getting an education, the value of having a wella free choice of union and have therefore established other forums, where functioning family and a well-run school in the local community. The project management and employees can meet. also concentrates on showing what future job opportunities companies like Danfoss can offer. Danfoss has included a number of questions in the CSR survey about the A total of 850 pupils have completed various activities in 2011, where 50 of companies' local engagement. For instance, it appears from the answers that Danfoss' employees have been actively involved. The two most important a number of companies donate money or labor to local charity projects or activities were the implementation of values , a cooperation between teachers, sports clubs and that the companies support collections for people in distress. pupils and parents, and involvement in the local community , where parents The companies have reported that they donated more than EUR 120,000 for were the target group. such purposes in 2011. The purpose of the school adoption program is to help the individual school to begin development so that they will be able to help themselves in the Commitment and dialogue future; the idea being that the school should only be helped for 2-3 years. Through active dialogue with employees, managers and external stakeholders, Subsequently, another school will be adopted. Danfoss strives to act appropriately and to adapt the organization's processes and tools within the area of Corporate Citizenship to the requirements of the Donations from Danfoss foundations surrounding world, and to the societal development in the countries and areas where the organization is active. The Danfoss Employee Foundation Dialogue with interest organizations and NGOs is part of this work and helps The Danfoss Employee Foundation is a social foundation which works to to ensure that Danfoss is familiar with the framework conditions of business provide consultation and financial support to employees in Danfoss A/S, the operations in the countries where the organization is active. Knowledge of Bitten and Mads Clausen Foundation, an associated company in Denmark or new legislation, new initiatives from organizations and being challenged on their Danish subsidiaries. For instance, this means that Sauer-Danfoss ApS and our outlook and policies is a valuable and necessary element of the preparedDanfoss Universe A/S are included. ness which Danfoss constantly maintains in order to meet global challenges. Danfoss was one of the initiators that established the Danish Business In 2011, the Foundation considered approx. 300 cases. Many of these cases Network for Human Rights, which is a network for companies operating were concerned with poor financial situations caused by dismissal, divorce or internationally and facing many challenges within the area of human rights. stricter loan terms from banks. Moreover, many employees have applied for Danfoss also played an active role in this network in 2011, and is a member of Christmas help. the network's steering group. In 2011, the Foundation gave financial support amounting to a total of For instance, Danfoss is engaged in the following initiatives: approx. DKK 3.2 million. • Danish Business Network for Human Rights The Employee Foundation's legal aid system, which ensures that substantial • Global Compact Nordic Network legal assistance is available for all employees, handled approx. 200 requests. • Sustainability network within the Confederation of Danish Industry • The Confederation of Danish Industry's environmental managers forum The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation and network groups for corporate environmental managers and climate The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation was established by the founder strategy of Danfoss in 1960. The purpose of the Foundation is to provide support to Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 9 charitable projects in Denmark and abroad. In the beginning, the support was Support was also given to many national patients’ associations and relief primarily provided in the local community surrounding the factory in organizations. Nordborg. However, in line with the expansion and globalization of Danfoss, In the course of the year, several large donations, each amounting to the support area has increased and today it also includes Danfoss' other DKK 100,000 or more, were distributed. The money went to breast cancer locations in Denmark and abroad. The Foundation provides financial support research, equipment for schools, hospitals and volunteer fire brigades and for training, research, sports, art, culture and various charitable organizations. various cultural projects. An annual grant goes to the operation and maintenance of the mill in Havnbjerg, near Nordborg. The mill is open to the public and was originally bought Other large donations were made to humanitarian projects abroad. The and restored by Mads Clausen. Australia Flood Appeal foundation received DKK 200,000 after the massive floods in Queensland at the beginning of the year. Brazil also experienced In 2011, the Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation distributed a total of severe floods. Here, the Foundation doubled the amount that Danfoss DKK 9.4 million to more than 350 recipients. Among them were a large employees donated in a charitable collection, and therefore contributed number of organizations and institutions in Danfoss' local community, includDKK 100,000 to the relief work. An additional DKK 300,000 was donated in ing schools and universities, sports clubs, scout groups, pensioners' associaconnection with a national charitable collection for development projects tions, institutions for the disabled and museums, choirs and orchestras. and aid to drought-stricken people in Africa. Responsible supplier management Since 2004, Danfoss has had a Code of Conduct for suppliers which comprises Typical problems in connection with supplier audits are poor safety rules for social and environmental responsibility. In 2010, a Code of Conduct precautions in the form of a lack of emergency exits and fire extinguishing Competence Center was established in Nordborg and a Code of Conduct equipment, lack of personal protection equipment and incorrect treatment Audit Office was established in China. and storage of hazardous materials, such as chemicals and discharge of waste water. An action plan is always prepared in connection with an audit. Here, the Danfoss has approx. 3,500 suppliers which deliver goods for production suppliers commit themselves to rectify matters. purposes. The suppliers are located all over the world. Many of them operate in areas where respect for human rights and labor rights cannot be taken for In general, it may take time to rectify matters which are not in order. However, granted. Therefore, Danfoss has worked systematically over the past eight it is critical that the supplier shows willingness to solve problems. If this is not years to raise standards in its supplier chain. the case, Danfoss does not wish to continue the cooperation with the In some countries, the environmental and social standards are lower than supplier. elsewhere. As a result, the suppliers are categorized in a risk-effect matrix, where one axis represents a geographically related risk level, and the other All new suppliers must sign the Danfoss Code of Conduct and existing suppliers one represents the proportion of purchases from the supplier. The position of must sign the Code of Conduct when their contract is renewed or the current the supplier in the risk-effect matrix determines how often the individual version is updated. Danfoss' Code of Conduct has been signed by 2,151 supplier must be audited. suppliers worldwide. In 2011, Danfoss worked out a new strategy to ensure compliance with the Danfoss Code of Conduct for Suppliers. The strategy entails increased focus on The Danfoss Group's central database of Code of Conduct audits shows that Compliance in terms of the Code of Conduct, including that signature and the Danfoss Code of Conduct has been signed by 477 suppliers from high-risk compliance are included as the first part of the qualification process when countries, 201 from medium-risk countries and 1,473 from low-risk countries. new suppliers are selected. Furthermore, the new strategy implies increased Audits were performed at 22% of suppliers in high-risk countries, 25% of focus on getting already audited suppliers in full compliance with the Code of suppliers in medium-risk countries and 10% of suppliers in low-risk countries. Conduct. The audits alone do not ensure that Danfoss’ requirements are observed. In In 2011, the Danfoss Code of Conduct Competence Center placed special 2012, Danfoss will, consequently, increase its focus on suppliers who were focus on the audits of Danfoss’ Top 20 suppliers at global level and on audits in audited in 2011 to ensure that they solve the recorded problems. Danfoss' China. In 2011, Danfoss carried out 221 audits of suppliers, of which 93 initial audit registration has been changed for the purpose of creating an overview suppliers' audits were carried out in China alone. of how many suppliers comply with the rules. 10 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Employees In 2011, the number of employees in the Danfoss Group (excluding Sauerpreconditions for adapting to Danfoss' business development. Danfoss makes Danfoss) fell to 16,949 compared with 17,373 in 2010. The decline should be use of both supplementary education and job-related training in the develviewed in light of the fact that Danfoss sold off business units with a total of opment of employees. Over the course of the year, Danfoss made the training 1,133 employees in the course of the year, and therefore there is actually offered via their internal global training academy, the DBS Academy, available an increase in real terms in the number of employees in the group's core to more employees than before, via their e-learning platform, the Danfoss business. Learning Platform among other things. Furthermore, Danfoss continued its efforts within the area of leadership development with revised evaluation and Engaged and motivated employees are crucial in order for Danfoss to realize feedback processes. Danfoss also stepped up its work in developing manager its strategy and reach its business goals. In 2011, the annual Employee Perceptalents, for example through the Accelerated Development Program. tion Survey showed the highest commitment ever since Danfoss introduced the survey, and the response rate of 90% was likewise the highest ever The number of employees who chose to leave Danfoss in the course of the obtained. year increased from 5.2% in 2010 to 7% in 2011. The increase should be viewed in light of the fact that the previous years were characterized by lower job One of Danfoss' goals is that each employee shall remain a valuable and mobility as a consequence of the financial crisis. Total employee turnover was attractive resource, so that the individual employee has the best possible 15.7% in 2011 compared to 16.9% in 2010. Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 11 Climate Danfoss is a global leader in energy-efficient solutions which save energy and (Arkadelphia). The second step is to review the factories in Lyon, France, deal with climate challenges. Consequently, it is only natural that the group Wuqing and Haiyan in China and Loves Park in the USA to find energy savings. tries to reduce the climate impact of its own activities. Therefore, Danfoss has a climate strategy, 3×25 , which states that the group will reduce its CO2 The project is based on the experiences Danfoss has gained from its factory in emissions from energy consumption, transportation of finished goods and Gråsten, Denmark, which has made a targeted effort to make energy and CO2 business travel by 25% and increase the share of CO2 neutral energy by 25% savings since 2008. In 2009, the factory started working with the energy before 2025 compared to emissions in 2007. This corresponds to a reduction consultancy firm Danfoss Solutions on ways of reducing energy consumption of 1.5% of the CO2 emissions annually. at the factory. In 2011, the factory in Gråsten emitted 21% less CO2 than in 2010. In 2007, Danfoss' CO2 emissions were approx. 180,000 tonnes and, therefore, The energy savings in Gråsten were obtained by way of improved heat Danfoss' emissions in 2025 cannot exceed 135,000 tonnes. recovery, investment in considerably more efficient ventilation plants and less power-consuming lighting, among other things In 2011, Danfoss emitted 131,500 tonnes of CO2 from the group's electricity and heat consumption. The sources of these emissions were both direct Climate reporting emissions (own plants for the generation of power and heat) and indirect Since 2009, Danfoss has reported on the group's climate activities and emisemissions (purchase of power and heat from external sources). sions of greenhouse gases to the Carbon Disclosure Project's Supply Chain Program, where companies which have joined the program get an overall Danfoss’ electricity consumption accounted for 81% of the group's total CO2 view of the supply chain's emissions and, at the same time, emissions are emissions, corresponding to 105,000 tonnes in 2011, while approx. made public for the benefit of other companies. 26,500 tonnes of CO2 were emitted in connection with heating. In 2011, Danfoss reported its climate strategy, greenhouse gas emissions and the risks and business opportunities that the group expects to encounter in All in all, the CO2 emissions decreased by 6,500 tonnes in 2011 compared to the years ahead. For further information on Danfoss' reporting, please visit 2010, despite the fact that the activity level increased in general. One of the www.danfoss.com. reasons for the decline was that in 2010 and 2011 Danfoss sold or shut down a number of factories in the USA, Germany, Finland and Slovakia, where Carbon footprint production processes had a greater impact on the environment. Danfoss still faces demands, in particular from important customers and the authorities of individual countries, regarding carbon footprint labeling of Danfoss keeps focusing on reducing its CO2 emissions from energy-consumproducts, the declaration of the products’ CO2 emissions during production ing processes and systems to the highest extent possible. In 2011, Danfoss and/or in-depth analyses of the climate effects of the products. It can often be started a project, the object of which was to reduce the total energy difficult to answer very detailed requests adequately because information consumption of the 15 largest factories by 20-25%. The first step is energyabout the impact of materials and processes on the climate is not available saving measures at selected factories in Denmark (Viby, Silkeborg, Kolding, throughout the supply chain. Vejle, Rødekro and two sites in Nordborg), Mexico (Monterrey) and the USA CO2 emission 200,000  Target 180,000  CO2 160,000 140,000 120,000 100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 12 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 13 14 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Environment In 2011, Danfoss therefore began looking into what information the individual fossil sources such as coal, oil and gas. Electricity produced with coal accounts business areas are required to provide to customers. In 2012, Danfoss expects for 48% of the total electricity consumption. to implement the first pilot projects with a view to establishing a global platThe consumption of energy for heating declined by 11% compared to 2010. form for assessing the environmental and climate conditions of the products, This was, among other things, due to the implementation of energy-saving based on internationally recognized methods and data. projects and sell-offs. Almost all the energy for heating comes from fossil sources and natural gas accounts for 87%. Danfoss is a global company with production in many countries. It is therefore important to ensure proper working conditions, a healthy and safe working Chemical substances environment and the utilization of resources in a sustainable way. Danfoss makes use of a number of chemical substances which can be harmful Danfoss takes responsibility for preventing pollution and removing any to employees and the environment. The substances are used in the manufacunwanted environmental effects; obtaining ongoing and measurable turing of products and if they are not immediately expendable or replaceable, improvements of the environment and climate; and considering the individual they must be utilized as efficiently as possible and measures must be taken to human being, the working environment and the external environment. protect the employees and the environment. Both in 2010 and 2011, Danfoss has sold off or closed production units. This The amount of CRAN substances (carcinogenic or allergenic, harmful to results in a decrease in the consumption of raw materials, resources and the reproduction or neurotoxic) of approx. 1,300 tonnes is a small increase amount of waste and hazardous wastes as these factories are no longer compared to 2010. The amount of organic solvents remains unchanged, included in the environmental section of the Corporate Citizenship report. whereas the amount of environmentally dangerous substances decreased by 7%. The amount of toxic substances increased by 19% compared to 2010. The Raw materials and auxiliary materials changes were due to the fact that some of the substances were classified In 2011, the group's consumption of raw materials declined to 151,500 tonnes differently in 2011 than in 2010 due to the implementation of the global GHS from 166,000 tonnes in 2010. Actually, the consumption of raw materials system for classifying and labeling chemicals, among other things. remains unchanged from 2010 as the factories sold off consumed 16,000 tonnes of raw materials in 2010. The total amount appears in the table on Danfoss' Negative List forms the cornerstone of the efforts to reduce the use page 28. of potentially harmful substances in production processes and is an important guideline in product development to make sure that unwanted A number of auxiliary materials are necessary during production but does not substances are not used in production or in Danfoss' products. end up in the finished products. These materials are typically cutting oil and The list is extended on an ongoing basis. To keep the internal as well as the refrigerants, as well as materials for washing and cleaning items. external stakeholders updated with the most recent changes and requireIn 2011, 264 tonnes of cutting fluid were used to cool and lubricate metal ments, Danfoss now makes use of a subscription service to which all suppliers processing, compared with 311 tonnes in 2010. The decline was due to divestmust subscribe so as to receive updates of the Negative List. At the end of ment of metal processing factories. 2011, more than 450 suppliers had subscribed to the service. Water consumption Danfoss has established an internal network for the purpose of ensuring that The total water consumption for processing and sanitary purposes increased the products and Danfoss' production comply with the EU's far-reaching by 81,000m³ to 773,000m³, which was primarily caused by a defective cooling chemical reform, REACH. In this way, Danfoss ensures that their products and compressor for an IT system in Nordborg, which consumed 80,000m³ more in processes do not contain any candidate list substances and that Danfoss does 2011 than in 2010. The water consumption at the other factories showed only not import chemicals from countries outside the EU or manufacture products a slight increase from 2010. which intended release of chemicals. In this way too, the Negative List is an important tool in the communication of requirements to the suppliers. Energy The consumption of electricity declined by approx. 4% compared to 2010, Violation of environmental legislation and represented 58% of Danfoss' total energy consumption in 2011. In 2011, the factories reported 29 violations of environmental legislation. The 24% of the total electricity consumption came from renewable sources such violations were found in connection with internal inspections or where the as solar, water, wind and biomass. Electricity from nuclear power plants local authorities have given an enforcement order. The violations included accounted for 10% of the Group's consumption, while the rest came from concentrations of oil in waste water at the Nordborg factory that were too Corporate Citizenship Rapport 2011 15 Working environment and safety high and an accident in France where up to 20,000 liters of oil leaked into Three factories had an accident rate of 30-35, whereas the rate at the other a rainwater basin after the failure of a pump in a tank of mineral oil. Oil and factories falls below this. Eight out of 35 factories have not had any accidents contaminated soil were collected and sent for treatment. The accident did not that resulted in absence in 2011. Efforts are being made to reduce the rate of result in any permanent harm to the environment. accidents at the factories where the risk is highest. In 2011, Danfoss had 145 accidents that resulted in at least one day of In order to run a sound and efficient company, Danfoss considers it necessary absence. The injured employees were absent for a total of 1,990 days, to have a good and safe working environment. corresponding to an average of 14 days per accident. In 2010, the average Working environment and safety are integrated elements in all the Group's absence was 25 days, so the accidents which occurred in 2011 were consideractivities. Making sure that all employees are thriving and not exposed to any ably less serious than in 2010. work-related danger is deeply rooted in the Group's culture. In 2011, 73% of accidents were less serious and had resulting absence of ten The environmental and health and safety policies lay down that Danfoss' days maximum, which is considerably more than in 2010. The remaining business activities must be organized and carried out with consideration for accidents were more serious and here the length of absence was more than the individual human being, the working environment and the surroundings. ten days. 23 of these accidents resulted in absences of more than 20 working Approx. one third of the Danfoss factories all over the world are certified days. according to the working environment standard OHSAS 18001, while the rest have working environment and safety as an integrated part of their environHands and fingers are still the body parts which are most exposed to injuries. mental work in line with the ISO 14001 standard. They account for 51% of accidents. 9% of accidents were head injuries, whereas legs/feet and the rest of the body represented 15 and 25% respectively. Work accidents The number of work accidents has dropped since 1999, when the frequency Violations of working environment legislation of accidents exceeded 28. In 2011, the frequency for production employees In 2011, Danfoss factories reported 11 violations of working environment was 9.4 compared to 12.8 in 2010. The frequency for white-collar workers legislation as the result of internal audits or where local authorities have made increased from was 1.3 which is unchanged from 2010. The frequency of an enforcement order. All cases were of minor importance and were solved accidents is calculated as the number of accidents per 1 million working hours. without difficulty. 16 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 17 Assurance Statement Introduction Conclusions Det Norske Veritas Business Assurance A/S (DNV) has been asked by the In DNV’s opinion, the 2011 Corporate Citizenship report conveys a factual, fair management of Danfoss (the Company) to carry out an assurance engagement and credible picture of Danfoss’ major Corporate Citizenship activities. DNV on its 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report (the Report). has evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of Good, Acceptable and Needs Improvement: Danfoss is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of information in the Report. DNV’s responsibility in performing this work Materiality: Good. The Report reflects to a great extent the Company’s broad is to the management of Danfoss only and in accordance with agreed terms of understanding of its material Corporate Citizenship risks. The Company is reference. This statement is intended for the management and broader stakeworking systematically at a corporate level to entrench a high standard for holders of Danfoss. ethical conduct. The preparation in 2012 of an overall strategy for Corporate Citizenship is expected to strengthen this and set specific goals for the further Scope of Assurance execution of the comprehensive initiatives begun in 2011, in collaboration DNV agreed the following scope of work with Danfoss: with the Company’s internal compliance and risk management functions. The • Verification of the text and performance data in the Report, covering Company is also working to map out areas of growing interest from stakeDanfoss’ global activities from 1 January to 31 December 2011. holders, including the societal impacts of products in a lifecycle perspective. • Evaluation of the underlying processes for collecting and analyzing data from production sites and consolidating at corporate level. Completeness: Acceptable. DNV believes that the Report does not omit impor• Information regarding Sauer-Danfoss is not included in the scope. tant information that would significantly influence stakeholder assessments • DNV did not interview any external stakeholders. of whether the Company manages its social and environmental impacts in • Verification activities took place in January and February 2012 at the a responsible manner. This applies within the scope and boundaries for reportDanfoss Head Office in Denmark as well as four production sites: Heating ing defined by Danfoss. The omission of Sauer-Danfoss, despite Danfoss’ Solutions in Sofia, Bulgaria; Power Electronics in Gråsten, Denmark; as well majority shareholding, is explained in a transparent manner, and the Company as Commercial Compressors in Arkadelphia, USA and Lyon, France. is working on the integration in future reporting. Similarly, future reporting is expected to address new focus areas, such as product sustainability. Verification Methodology DNV planned and carried out the assurance engagement in accordance with Reliability: Acceptable. Danfoss generally demonstrates effective internal DNV’s Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. DNV reviewed management and traceability of data, based on documented accounting processes and tools for implementing the Company’s policies around Corporate principles and effective internal control procedures. These were strengthened in Citizenship (including employees, business ethics, supply chain management, 2011 and engagement with data managers at individual production sites has environment, health & safety) and challenged the related statements and data increased. DNV nonetheless identified several errors in data entry and consolidain the Report. DNV assessed the robustness of the underlying data managetion. These were corrected by Danfoss during DNV’s assurance engagement, ment systems, information flows and internal control processes. To trace key and DNV’s visits to production sites confirmed a strong commitment to performance data up through the reporting system, DNV conducted on-site ensuring reliable and transparent reporting in future. Following DNV’s review of verification at the above-mentioned factories and performed sample-based data and underlying evidence, it is therefore DNV’s opinion that the data predata checks of a further four production sites worldwide. The production sites sented in the Report are stated in accordance with the Company’s accounting were selected using a risk-based approach. Finally, DNV evaluated the principles and are reliable. Report’s adherence to six principles: Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Responsiveness, Completeness, Reliability and Neutrality. DNV’s conclusions are based on interviews with 58 staff of various functions (including senior management) and review of relevant documentation and tools. 18 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Acceptable. Danfoss Neutrality: Good. The performance in 2011 is • The development and deployment of additional maintains an active dialogue between employees presented in a balanced and direct way. Positive innovative communication tools around Corpoand management, both locally and at the corpoand negative performance is reported, along with rate Citizenship performance will help to rate level, and seeks thereby to understand and commitments to future improvements. increase engagement from stakeholders and respond to internal stakeholders’ expectations support, for example, sales teams in their diafor Corporate Citizenship and reporting. The Opportunities for Improvement logue with customers. Company also engages external stakeholders in The following is an excerpt from DNV’s observavarious forums. The upcoming work on a Corporate tions and suggestions for improvement, as reported DNV’s Competence and Independence Citizenship strategy – including reporting – to the management of Danfoss. DNV provides services in the area of Social Responshould be supported by a stakeholder analysis sibility through qualified specialists worldwide. and dialogue with key stakeholders. • The preparation of an overall strategy for CorpoDNV was not involved in the preparation of any rate Citizenship should be supported by a stakestatements or data included in the Report except Responsiveness: Good. Danfoss continues to work holder analysis and dialogue with key stakefor this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains on integrating Corporate Citizenship principles in holders, both at corporate level and at local complete impartiality towards people interviewed its daily business activities, and the Report reflects production sites. during the assignment. the Company’s efforts on the most significant • The development of the strategy should enable challenges in 2011. The Company has strengtha simplification of the current data collection, ened its efforts considerably on ethics, anticorrupso it is adjusted to the selected KPIs. It should tion and supply chain management through also include a roadmap for reporting, which training, tools and internal control procedures. clarifies goals and roles as well as a timetable for reporting on new areas. For Det Norske Veritas Business Assurance A/S Copenhagen, 22. February 2012 Dr Helena Barton Jens Peter Høiseth Lead Verifier Country Manager Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 19 20 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Accounts and notes Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 21 Applied accounting principles The overall principles are materiality, relevance and transparency. Rules and guidelines The CSR section covers all companies (both manufacturing and sales companies) where Danfoss has had a majority share throughout 2011. The environment CSR and HR section covers all factories where Danfoss has had a majority share throughout The results from the CSR survey are reported to the respondents and the 2011. Executive Committee. The Executive Committee also receives the results of the Companies that have been acquired in 2011 will first appear in the Corporate People Manager Survey. Citizenship Report for 2011. If critical conditions are established, the companies involved are approached All data are exclusive Sauer-Danfoss. with the purpose of rectifying the matters. Most results from the CSR survey are included in Danfoss’ Corporate Citizenship Collection of data report, which is published as part of the company’s efforts to make Danfoss’ activities and results transparent. Some results are only included in the internal CSR report. Data for the CSR section is collected trough five channels: Danfoss applies the guidelines contained in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to • An annual electronic questionnaire (CSR survey) distributed to all of the ensure transparency and completeness in reporting of results within HR, CSR group’s factories and sales companies. and environment. The GRI table includes a list of the indicators covered by the • En electronic questionnaire (People Manager Survey) to all of the group’s Corporate Citizenship reporting. managers with direct reports. Both surveys are compiled in SurveyXact from The basis for reporting of CSR data exists in two Danfoss standards: One, Ramboll Management. Corporate Citizenship Reporting (corporate standard 500B0806), establishes the • Factory visits during which data are collected using observation, interview general guidelines for reporting of data. The second, Danfoss Headcount Defiand dialogue. nition (corporate standard 500B1146) define together with Work • Supplier data collected in SCoCIS II (Supplier CoC Information System II), Instructions and Guidelines for HR-SAP Administrators definitions for HR data. a database maintained by Global Procurement as well as information from Danfoss’ purchasers. Environment At the factories the major data are collected in accordance with procedures in The CSR Survey 2011 was distributed to 100 contact people (Presidents/ the environmental management systems. General Managers/GS managers) who were asked to give their feedback on The foundation of the reporting of data for the Group Environmental Accounts behalf of all factories and companies in the group. is available in two Danfoss standards: The first, “Corporate Environmental Feedback was received from 88 out of 100 respondents. The answers represent Reporting” (corporate guidline 500B0806), defines the general guidelines for 90% of the group’s employees. reporting of data. In 2011, the People Manager survey was distributed to 2,164 managers The second, “Environmental reporting” (corporate standard 500B734), defines with employees reporting to them. 1,886 managers filled in the questionnaire, the precise guidelines for the reporting of raw materials, auxiliary materials and a response rate of 87.2%. potentially harmful substances. The latter also defines what to observe in order to avoid reporting by double entry due to internal trading with other Danfoss HR factories and what should be done to ensure inclusion of all relevant data in the Data for the HR part of Danfoss' Corporate Citizenship section is gathered from reporting. the personnel management system HR-SAP, where information about the In order to support the factories in their efforts to provide valid data, training in employees is registered. Information about the number of Employee Developenvironmental reporting are held regularly and training also takes place during ment Dialogues (EDD) is gathered through the People Managers Survey. factory visits. The factories must report a total of 85 different parameters (data types) via Environment and working environment Enterprise Performance Management System. To ensure a uniform and valid Once a year, data on all factories’ environmental impact, raw materials, energy, reporting of data, guidelines and help texts are available for each parameter. water and potentially harmful substances, as well as data on waste water, heavy metals and waste are collected through Oracle’s Enterprise Performance Management System (EPM), which also is the factories’ tool for financial reporting. Factories must also inform about the number and nature of accidents and indicate whether they have exceeded the conditions of their environmental permits or other agreements with environmental authorities. 22 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Data handling and validation which, apart from being individually reported, are also included in the group of organic solvents. CRAN substances can also appear in several groups. Moreover, CSR and HR the refrigerants CFCs, HCFCs and HFCs are reported as they have a special Validation of data takes place after deadline. Respondents whose replies are influence on the climate change. controversial, questionable or self-contradictory are contacted in order to correct or clear up any errors. If there is a need to include supplementary Accidents explanations in the Corporate Citizenship report or in the internal reporting, The frequency of accidents is calculated as the total number of accidents the companies in question are asked to provide the necessary information. (including possible fatalities) per one million working hours. Temporary workers The data is analyzed in a spreadsheet and form the basis for the survey concluare not included in the figures. sions. HR data are validated in the HR organization according to guidelines. Erroneous reporting If systematic errors are revealed in the reported data or in the foundation of the Supply chain data, the data in question are corrected five years back to ensure comparability. Danfoss’ suppliers are grouped in a risk-effect matrix. The purpose is to ensure If changes are made to the classifying of chemical substances, the change only a systematic approach to supplier management, prioritizing the most takes effect as of the year referred to, since it creates an entirely new situation. risk-prone suppliers. All countries are rated according to the level of risk, which Changes in historical data must be approved by the external verifier. describes the risk of the supplier not complying with the Code of Conduct, and the effect is determined by the extent of the purchase. Environmental Impact Index (EII) An environmental impact index (EII) is used to express the group's relative Environment environmental impact. EII reflects how efficiently resources are used and if the Consumption of raw material and potentially harmful substances occurs group is able to reduce the discharges relative to the volume of production. according to two principles: either at the registering of movements in stock or A decreasing EII indicates a lower relative environmental impact. at purchasing. Most factories of the group use the latter. Other data is mainly The environmental impact index is calculated as the index of environmental stated in proportion to drawn up invoices in connection with purchasing/sales. impact divided by the index of activity. Activity index is calculated from the This applies for example to the purchasing of energy and water or generation average of the index for raw materials and the index of turnover. of waste. Heavy metals in wastewater data is normally measured by external laboratories. Internal audit of data prior to consolidation An internal audit group reviews a total of about 5,000 data reported each year Raw materials and auxiliary materials by the factories, before the consolidation of data. During the internal audit The consumption of raw materials is reported as 23 different types of raw comparisons are made on basis of previous years' of data, and a number of materials. The raw material types have been selected for their significance as to correlations between different data are reviewed. An example is the correlation volume or since they include important information on the sectors in which between raw material consumption, energy consumption and waste, or the Danfoss is active. Raw material types that cannot be related to a specific raw question whether the different kinds of waste types or potentially harmful material type are reported under “Other raw materials”. substances have been correctly reported. Auxiliary materials and consist of cutting fluids and cleaning agents used in The Environmental Accounts includes 35 reporting entities. Some factories are production processes. split into several reporting entities. Other factories make an aggregate reporting because a split of e.g. electricity is impossible between the factories Potentially harmful substances if located at the same premises. The materiality criterion of potentially harmful substances is the volume or hazardousness of the substances, or that they are covered by the factories' Consolidation environmental approvals. In order to facilitate clarity, the substances are When consolidating data, extracts are made for the different kinds of informagrouped. It should be noted that some substances are only included in regard tion and these are being consolidated at Group level. This applies for example to the work environment. This applies for example to the substances that are to raw materials and potentially harmful substances. It is also checked that data called CRAN substances. These substances are considered carcinogenic, are in accordance with previous years' consolidated data. harmful to the ability to reproduce healthy children, allergenic, or harmful to the central nervous system. CRAN-substances shall be classified and accounted for in accordance with national legislation on the labeling of the substances. This is done to ensure the greatest possible coherence to the factories environmental management systems. 11 substance groups exist in the potentially harmful substances category. Some substances are found in several substance groups, for example kerosene Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 23 Calculation of CO2 emissions The calculation of CO2 emissions is made on basis of the energy consumption multiplied by relevant emission factors. The source of the emission factors is the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org). The calculation is based on Danfoss' consumption of oil and gas, its own energy production and heating consumption as a result of purchased electricity and district heating at external energy manufacturers. Each factory reports their consumption of energy as coming from renewable and non-renewable sources. Transport The environmental impact of internal transport and transport of products is not included in the Environmental Accounts 2011. This is due to the weighing between the impacts on the factories and on the other hand lack of methodical simplicity in the statement of the environmental impact of transport. It is expected, however, that in 2012, a series of calculations of CO2 emissions from transport will be carried out and measures will be initiated to the extent necessary to ensure the achievement of reduction goals of Danfoss' climate strategy. Activities and changes during the year Factories in environmental accounts Accounts include all the factories where Danfoss has had a majority share in all of 2011. In the course of 2011, Water Valves factories in France and the United States were sold off along with Gearmotor factories in Germany and Slovakia and Danfoss LPM in Finland. Data from these factories are thus included not in the accounts. Danfoss Energy in China is the sole new factory in 2011. In addition, several of Global Services' functions in Nordborg were outsourced in 2011 and therefore not part of the reporting. All factories in Nordborg now reports as one entity due to the establishment of a common environmental management and reporting system for the entire site. Factory visits Over the years site visits are conducted, where information about the environmental and social conditions at Danfoss' companies is collected. Reports, minutes and correspondence from here form the basis of some of the information in the Corporate Citizenship Report. External verification External and independent third party verification of data and information in the Corporate Citizenship section of Danfoss' Annual Report is performed. Information about Sauer-Danfoss is not subject to verification. The verification is conducted by Det Norske Veritas (DNV) as sample checks, factory visits and verification of the procedures for reporting and audit of data. Interviews with employees and managers in key functions are conducted in order to make assessment of both systems as attitude aspects. DNV has during the verification visited factories in the United States, Bulgaria, France and Denmark, and taken samples of data from a number of other factories and companies in the Danfoss Group. 24 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Significant CSR parameters Certified working environment management systems 2008 2009 2010 2011 Worldwide 35% 42% 26% Denmark 80% 93% 78% Dismissals due to unethical behaviour 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total 64 29 40 26 Hereof cases that were safely reported through the Ethics Hotline 6 1 4 15 Juveniles between 15 and 18 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total 192 78 95 48 Production 119 37 69 29 Hereof trainees 83 21 33 22 Administration 27 11 17 5 Hereof trainees 21 5 8 3 Other fuctions 46 30 9 14 Hereof trainees 41 26 1 1 Cases of discrimination 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of cases 2 2 2 5 Complaints from local community 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of complaints 2 1 0 0 Health test of employees (number of companies)* 2008 2009 2010 2011 Medical examination 60 31 40 X-ray 17 11 16 Blood sample 35 18 27 Urine test 27 15 20 HIV/AIDS 2 0 1 Hepatitis 9 5 4 Health test of applicants (number of companies)* 2008 2009 2010 2011 Medical examination 24 18 12 X-ray 5 7 5 Blood sample 14 10 8 Urine test 23 7 6 HIV/AIDS 0 0 0 Hepatitis 3 4 1 Suppliers 2008 2009 2010 2011 Direct suppliers (supply goods for products) 3758 3498 4259 3519 Distribution of direct suppliers 2008 2009 2010 2011 High risk countries 10% 19% 13% 26% Medium risk countries 15% 10% 10% 10% Low risk countries 75% 71% 77% 64% Suppliers having signed Code of Conduct (number) 2008 2009 2010 2011 High risk countries 28% 29% 81% 53% Medium risk countries 8% 28% 46% 56% Low risk countries 17% 47% 46% 65% Audits at suppliers (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 High risk countries 23% 14% 38% 22% Medium risk countries 8% 7% 18% 25% Low risk countries 4% 5% 5% 10% Donations from Fabrikant Mads Clausens Fond 2008 2009 2010 2011 Donations (m DKK) 10 11.6 20,2 9,4 Danfoss Employee Foundation 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of cases 400 300 300 300 Donations (m DKK) 5 2.6 3 3.2 * The validation process reveals that the tests are not used for discriminatory purposes Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 25 Significant HR parameters EMEA Headcount per region GLOBAL Denmark NAM LAM APAC ex. DK End of 2011 16,949 4,925 5,663 2,022 247 4,092 End of 2010 17,373 4,928 6,549 2,018 243 3,635 End of 2009 19,623 5,226 8,971 1,829 212 3,385 End of 2008 22,133 6,149 10,403 2,365 227 3,041 Trainee Headcount per employment type TOTAL Execs Manager Salary paid Hourly paid Appren End of 2011 16,949 67 2,066 7,626 7,039 151 End of 2010 17,373 74 2,117 7,366 7,634 182 End of 2009 19,623 75 2,266 7,408 9,481 393 End of 2008 22,133 88 2,267 8,210 11,165 403 Employee turnover by Age group TOTAL 15-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55+ 2011 Total turnover 15.7% 38.8% 15.9% 12.2% 10.1% 18.0% 2011 Voluntary resignation rate 7.0% 21.6% 9.2% 5.2% 3.1% 1.8% 2010 Total turnover 16.9% 47.9% 16.2% 12.0% 10.5% 18.4% 2010 Voluntary resignation rate 5.2% 15.1% 7.1% 4.8% 2.4% 1.5% 2009 Total turnover 20.2% 34.7% 19.9% 16.1% 16.4% 30.4% 2009 Voluntary resignation rate 3.8% 11.1% 5.4% 3.1% 1.5% 1.4% Employee turnover by Service length TOTAL 0-2 2-4 5-9 10-19 20+ 2011 Total turnover 15.7% 24.4% 15.6% 12.6% 10.5% 8.1% 2011 Voluntary resignation rate 7.0% 12.5% 9.0% 5.3% 2.7% 0.8% 2010 Total turnover 16.9% 36.7% 12.6% 9.2% 8.3% 16.3% 2010 Voluntary resignation rate 5.2% 13.0% 5.1% 3.5% 1.7% 0.6% 2009 Total turnover 20.2% 30.6% 17.8% 14.0% 11.0% 15.9% 2009 Voluntary resignation rate 3.8% 6.9% 4.0% 2.3% 1.1% 0.8% Employee turnover by Employee group TOTAL Execs Manager Salary paid Hourly paid 2011 Total turnover 15.7% 7.1% 8.0% 12.0% 22.1% 2011 Voluntary resignation rate 7.0% 2.8% 4.6% 7.1% 7.7% 2010 Total turnover 16.9% 1.3% 10.3% 12.4% 21.5% 2010 Voluntary resignation rate 5.2% 0.0% 4.6% 5.7% 4.6% 2009 Total turnover 20.2% 14.6% 7.1% 17.6% 26.1% 2009 Voluntary resignation rate 3.8% 1.0% 2.4% 4.5% 3.8% Employee turnover by Gender TOTAL Males Females 2011 Total turnover 15.7% 15.7% 15.6% 2011 Voluntary resignation rate 7.0% 7.4% 6.2% 2010 Total turnover 16.9% 17.3% 16.4% 2010 Voluntary resignation rate 5.2% 5.6% 4.5% 2009 Total turnover 20.2% 19.0% 22.7% 2009 Voluntary resignation rate 3.8% 4.1% 3.2% EMEA Employee Turnover by region GLOBAL Denmark NAM LAM APAC ex. DK 2011 Total turnover 15.7% 11.1% 13.6% 28.7% 11.4% 18.1% 2011 Voluntary resignation rate 7.0% 4.0% 5.6% 9.5% 4.7% 11.5% 2010 Total turnover 16.9% 19.4% 13.3% 22.7% 8.8% 16.7% 2010 Voluntary resignation rate 5.2% 3.8% 3.7% 7.6% 1.3% 9.0% 2009 Total turnover 20.2% 19.7% 18.9% 34.4% 11.9% 17.5% 2009 Voluntary resignation rate 3.8% 2.9% 2.7% 4.4% 0.6% 8.1% Leading people at Danfoss TOTAL (participant days) No. of days 2011 362 No. of days 2010 476 No. of days 2009 856 No. of days 2008 488 26 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 EMEA Manager EDDs completed GLOBAL Denmark NAM LAM APAC ex. DK 2011 Dialogues 77,3% 79,5% 75,9% 74,0% 58,1% 78,9% 2010 Dialogues 86,8% 97,2% 74,3% 90,4% 76,8% 94,7% 2009 Dialogues 63,0% 65,4% 72,1% 79,0% 54,2% 49,0% 2008 Dialogues 69,5% 83,6% 73,7% 73,5% 41,8% 29,9% EMEA Total EDDs completed GLOBAL Denmark NAM LAM APAC ex. DK 2011 Dialogues 68,7% 74,7% 63,3% 63,9% 57,6% 72,2% 2010 Dialogues 71,9% 82,7% 56,2% 65,8% 66,8% 86,6% 2009 Dialogues 59,3% 68,5% 52,8% 70,0% 72,2% 52,9% 2008 Dialogues 62,8% 82,1% 52,4% 78,9% 31,7% 46,6% EMEA Employees & Managers by gender GLOBAL Denmark NAM LAM APAC ex. DK 2011 All employees Males 67% 66% 66% 66% 80% 68% 2011 All employees Females 33% 34% 34% 34% 20% 32% 2011 Male Managers 81% 84% 83% 80% 78% 74% 2011 Female Managers 19% 16% 17% 20% 22% 26% 2010 All employees Males 65% 63% 64% 63% 67% 67% 2010 All employees Females 35% 37% 36% 37% 33% 33% 2010 Male Managers 81% 84% 84% 80% 81% 72% 2010 Female Managers 19% 16% 16% 20% 19% 28% 2009 All employees Males 68% 65% 69% 66% 82% 70% 2009 All employees Females 32% 35% 31% 34% 18% 30% 2009 Male Managers 81% 84% 83% 82% 81% 71% 2009 Female Managers 19% 16% 17% 18% 19% 29% Employee Categories by gender 2009 2010 2011 Males Females Males Females Males Females Total 13.348 6.275 11.345 6.028 11.336 5.613 Executives 75 0 72 2 64 3 Managers 1.824 442 1.710 407 1.661 405 Salary paid employees 5.029 2.379 4.837 2.529 5.193 2.433 Hourly paid employees 6.136 3.345 4.588 3.046 4.306 2.733 Trainees/ Apprentices 284 109 138 44 112 39 Employee Categories by Age group 15-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55+ Total 1.256 5.826 4.654 3.516 1.697 Executives 0 0 15 40 12 Managers 5 438 894 541 188 2011 Salary paid employees 260 3.010 2.141 1.453 762 Hourly paid employees 886 2.347 1.591 1.480 735 Trainees/ Apprentices 105 31 13 2 0 Total 1.345 5.505 4.950 3.725 1.848 Executives 0 1 22 33 18 Managers 1 398 962 571 185 2010 Salary paid employees 258 2.762 2.140 1.423 783 Hourly paid employees 953 2.304 1.818 1.697 862 Trainees/ Apprentices 133 40 8 1 0 Total 1.554 5.913 5.722 4.338 2.096 Executives 0 1 19 38 17 Managers 3 475 951 601 236 2009 Salary paid employees 244 2.638 2.249 1.454 823 Hourly paid employees 985 2.738 2.493 2.245 1.020 Trainees/ Apprentices 321 61 11 0 0 Manager National Origin DK CN DE US FR SI RU Others 2011 Total managers 29,2% 15,9% 4,1% 6,5% 4,4% 2,0% 5,8% 32,3% 2011 Executives 68,7% 0,0% 4,5% 6,0% 4,5% 1,5% 1,5% 13,4% 2010 Total managers 28,8% 12,8% 5,4% 6,5% 6,3% 1,6% 38,6% 2010 Executives 67,1% 0,0% 6,8% 2,7% 4,1% 1,4% 17,8% 2009 Total managers 28,4% 8,8% 8,1% 5,8% 5,3% 4,2% 39,4% 2009 Executives 65,2% 0,0% 10,5% 2,1% 4,2% 3,2% 11,6% Abbreviations: NAM: North America, LAM: Latin America, APAC: Asia/Pacific, EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 27 Significant environment and working environment impacts Energy (TJ) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr Energy consumption 1,940 1,965 1,808 1,530 1,367 EII Energy 98 101 107 95 92 Natural gas 1,126 1,135 1,016 822 788 57.7% Electricity 623 663 641 609 504 37.0% Gasoil 19 17 16 4 3 0.2% Heavy fuel 45 43 34 2 2 0.1% District heat 125 104 98 87 66 4.8% Other energy 2 3 3 2 2 0.1% Electricity (MWh) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr Total electricity consumption 312,741 315,411 282,231 228,425 218,938 Non renewables Coal 143,598 143,283 125,093 108,678 104,433 47.6% Oil 9,983 8,038 7,608 9,022 10,286 4.7% Gas 34,550 34,117 22,236 23,913 25,926 11.8% Misc. 9,889 9,828 11,509 7,292 3,270 1.8% Renewables Solar, wind 37,948 44,687 41,873 37,863 39,571 18.0% Biomass 6,693 7,960 9,752 9,695 10,280 4.7% Misc. 8,085 6,303 4,984 2,899 3,154 1.4% Nuclear 61,994 61,195 59,175 29,062 22,018 10.0% CO2 emissions (tonnes) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr Total emission 177,594 176,521 157,233 137,998 131,493 Coal 115,494 115,370 99,650 88,171 87,758 Oil 11,514 10,008 8,902 6,659 7,380 Gas 42,383 42,838 38,396 36,906 32,124 Distict Heat 4,012 3,482 3,148 3,032 2,448 Misc. 4,190 4,823 7,136 3,230 1,783 Water (m3) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr Water consumption 829,793 839,004 742,083 692,261 773,007 EII Water 100 102 104 107 123 Surface water consumption 276,550 274,582 300,665 294,053 325,377 42.3% Ground water consumption 504,611 503,726 384,073 331,630 381,376 49.2% Recycled water 48,632 60,696 57,345 66,578 66,254 8.5% Raw materials (tonnes) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr Iron 202,669 189,522 166,230 78,863 70,827 46.7% Stainless steel 5,474 4,971 3,994 5,579 7,885 5.2% Brass and copper (incl. alloys) 25,579 26,606 20,984 17,091 15,259 10.1% Aluminium and aluminium alloys 8,084 8,157 6,944 6,665 6,122 4.0% Other metals 168 164 109 175 209 0.1% PVC 684 725 450 539 693 0.5% Plastics with formaldehyde emission 276 228 176 191 176 0.1% Other plastics types (incl. rubber) 5,575 5,539 5,124 7,209 4,654 3.1% Electronic and electro-mechanical components 23,427 21,057 24,614 30,305 26,446 17.5% Soldering materials (incl. leaded) 62 67 113 59 57 0.0% Wood (incl. Wooden pallets) 11,619 11,967 10,546 7,302 7,162 4.7% Packaging of cardboard and plastics 6,973 6,963 6,004 7,065 6,631 4.4% Other raw materials (incl. filling media and 9,362 8,221 8,150 4,904 5,426 3.6% chemicals in products) Group's total raw material volume 299,955 284,186 253,438 165,947 151,546 Auxillary materials (tonnes) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr Cuttingsfluids 816 669 571 311 264 EII cutting fluids 100 83 82 49 42 Cleanings agents in processes 465 396 389 251 267 EII cleaning agents 100 86 98 69 75 28 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Potentially harmful substances (tonnes) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr CRAN materials 1,263 1,219 904 1,213 1,302 EII CRAN materials 100 98 83 123 134 Substances toxic to man 37 27 24 32 38 EII Toxic substances 100 75 77 114 136 Dangerous for the environment 288 262 178 151 140 EII Dangerous for the environment 100 92 72 67 63 Organic solvents 288 347 261 266 263 EII Organic solvents 100 122 106 119 119 HCFCs controlled by the MP (Purchased amounts) 10 9 7 5 8 MPI HCFC (Montreal Protocol) 100 88 84 64 100 Green House Gases control by KP (Purchased 85 83 75 82 110 amounts) EII HFC (Kyoto Protocol) 100 100 103 125 169 CFC+TRI+ PER (Purchased amounts) 0 5 3 3 0 Chlorinated oils 10 7 6 10 8 EII Process oil containing clorine 100 71 74 129 113 Kerosene 37 64 48 37 43 EII Kerosene 100 173 151 128 151 Waste water 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr Discharged industrial waste water (m3) 256,465 261,179 198,047 211,504 184,471 EII Discharged industrial waste water 100 103 90 106 94 Heavy metals in waste water (kg) 192 186 139 118 114 EII Heavy metals in waste water 100 98 85 79 77 Waste (tonnes) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr Waste 79,912 76,717 55,788 25,826 22,267 EII Waste 100 97 81 42 36 Waste for incineration 1,668 1,776 1,308 2,021 1,372 EII Incineration 100 108 91 156 107 Waste for landfill 2,849 3,154 2,006 1,883 1,268 EII Landfill 100 112 82 85 58 Oil and chemical waste 4,057 4,657 4,152 2,377 2,098 EII Oil and chemical waste 100 116 119 75 67 Waste for recycling 64,565 60,958 48,323 19,546 17,529 EII Recycled waste 100 96 87 39 35 Accidents with absense 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 distr Fatal accidents 0 0 0 0 0 Number of accidents with absense (blue collar) 312 330 254 184 132 Frequency of accidents (blue collar) 15,5 16,8 15,5 12,8 9,4 Number of accidents with absense white collar) 21 22 14 13 Frequency of accidents white collar) 2,3 2,7 1,3 1,3 Accidents with absence 1-4 days 110 99 92 71 59 41.3% Accidents with absence 5-10 days 88 99 65 38 46 32.2% Accidents with absence 11-19 days 43 46 40 26 15 10.5% Accidents with absence > 20 days 71 86 57 49 23 16.1% Total number of days of absence 5,438 6,864 5,048 4,697 1,990 Finger/Hand/Arm accidents 167 172 121 91 72 51.0% Head accidents 27 30 28 20 13 9.0% Legs/Feet accidents 68 68 56 40 22 15.2% Other parts of body accidents 50 60 49 36 36 24.8% * Two accidents for administration are not included in the distribution. Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 29 GRI indicator Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference PROFILE Strategy & Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the 9 organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 9, 21, 25 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. See www.danfoss.com 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including See www.danfoss.com main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and 2, 103, 105 joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 130, 105 Nordborgvej 81, DK-6430 Nordborg, Denmark 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues 18-20 covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. See www.danfoss.com 18-20 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, See www.danfoss.com sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: See Danfoss Annual Report • Number of employees; • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and 5 • Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period See Danfoss Annual Report regarding size, structure, or ownership including: • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and • Changes in the share capital structure and other 6 capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. None Report profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Reporting period is January 1 December 31, 2011. information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Annual Report 2010 published on March 29, 2011. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Corporate Citizenship & Sustainability, contents. mail: corp_citizenship@danfoss.com Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 30 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Detailed accounting principles are available on the Danfoss Group • Determining materiality; webpage (www.danfoss.com) under About Us/Corporate Citizenship • Prioritizing topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, The Corporate Citizenship Report include all companies where Dansubsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). foss has an owner share exceeding 50% for the whole year 2011 The See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Corporate Citizenship Report does not include Sauer-Danfoss’ activities. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary See accounting principles of the report 22-24 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased See accounting principles facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to 22-24 period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of See accounting principles calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of 22, 24 the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of See accounting principles information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ 22, 24 acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Danfoss has sold or closed several factories causing the raw materials in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods to decrease. See the accounting principles for details. 22, 24 applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard DisclosuThis table res in the report. Identify the page numbers or web links where the following can be found: • Strategy and Analysis 1.1 – 1.2; • Organizational Profile 2.1 – 2.10; • Report Parameters 3.1 – 3.13; • Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 – 4.17; • Disclosure of Management Approach, per category; • Core Performance Indicators; • Any GRI Additional Indicators that were included; and • Any GRI Sector Supplement Indicators included in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking An external and independent third party verification of data and external assurance for the report. If not included information in the Corporate Citizenship Report is performed by in the assurance report accompanying the Det Norske Veritas. sustainability report, explain the scope and basis 18, 19 of any external assurance provided. Also explain 22,24 the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy 2, 18, 20 or organizational oversight. Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 31 Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference Governance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons 18, 20 for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Not relevant state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Please see company website www.danfoss.com for further recommendations or direction to the highest goverinformation about corporate governance. nance body. Include reference to processes regarding: • The use of shareholder resolutions or other mechanisms for enabling minority shareholders to express opinions to the highest governance body; and • Informing and consulting employees about the working relationships with formal representation bodies such as organization level ‘work councils’, and representation of employees in the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Please see company website www.danfoss.com for further highest governance body, senior managers and information about corporate governance. executives (including departure arrangements) and the organisation's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Please see company website www.danfoss.com for further ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. information about corporate governance. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Please see company website www.danfoss.com for further of the members of the highest governance body for information about corporate governance. guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, The topics are described throughout Danfoss’ Annual Report codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Explain the degree to which these: • Are applied across the organization in different regions and department/units; and • Relate to internationally agreed standards. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Please see company website www.danfoss.com for further overseeing the organization’s identification and information about corporate governance. management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 18, 20 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Include frequency with which the highest governance body assesses sustainability performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Please see company website www.danfoss.com for further body’s own performance, particularly with respect to information about corporate governance. 18, 20 economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitment to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Danfoss' environmental policy states that: We will support approach or principle is addressed by the organization. a precautionary approach to environmental challenges by: • Going further than required by law in restricting the use of substances and processes that might present a potential risk to the environment • Striving to be among the most environmentally conscious companies within our branches of industries. Please see company website www.danfoss.com for further information. Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 32 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference Commitment to External Initiatives 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Danfoss has joined UN's Global Compact Initiative, UN's Caring for social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Climate and ICC's Business Charter for Sustainable Development. the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associatiData not collected ons) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Has positions in governance bodies; • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or • Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Data not collected 4.5, 5.3, 6.2 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Data not collected with whom to engage. 4.5, 5.3, 6.2 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including We strive to engage in the local communities where we operate and frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder are aware of the influence we have on those around us. As a global group company, we understand that our stakeholders have an interest in the way we run our business, and engagement with local communities enables us to maintain our social “licence to operate”. 4.5, 5.3, 6.2 Danfoss' Corporate Citizenship & Sustainability department holds round-table discussion with NGOs concerning respectively Environment/Climate and CSR/Human Rights agenda. At these meetings the NGOs can ask Danfoss questions and recommend ways to address specific concerns and issues. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through No meetings with external stakeholders (NGOs) were held in 2011 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has about Danfoss' results and reporting. responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. SOCIETY Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs Requirements in terms of open and honest communication in 6.8 and practices that assess and manage the impacts of company operations is described in the Ethics Handbook that 1 6.8.3 operations on communities, including entering, all leaders must sign. 6.8.9 operating, and exiting. (Core) Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index is used for for risks related to corruption. (Core) prioritizing the efforts against corruption. Country risk analyses are available for all the countries where 6.6 10 5 Danfoss has production facilities. The country-risk analyses 6.6.3 uncover the current situation in a country in terms of human rights, labor rights, working environment issues and corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's Danfoss has developed a dilemma game on corruption and anti-corruption policies and procedures. (Core) bribery, based on dilemmas that regional sales managers have experienced. Similarly, a dilemma game on ethics has been 6.2 developed. The dilemma games are used when visiting factories 6.6 and the dilemma game on corruption and bribery is also available 10 5 6.6.5 in an on-line version at the Intranet. When Corporate Citizenship & 6.6.3 Sustainablity carries out visits to factories and sales companies, workshops on anti-corruption is always a part of the visit. Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 33 Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference SOCIETY Community SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Danfoss monitors issues of corruption and bribery in two surveys: (Core) The annual CSR survey to all presidents/general managers and the People Managers Survey, where all People Managers are asked how 5 many employees they have dismissed (or who have voluntarily 10 6.6.3 9 resigned) due to unethical behavior. If non-compliance or risk of non-compliance are found the company will be asked to remedy immediately. Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Danfoss is registered with the lobby registers in both the EU and USA, policy development and lobbying. (Core) continuing to build-up contacts to political decision-makers in the EU institutions and the American Congress, to promote energy and environmental policies. Danfoss opened its lobby office in Brussels in August 2009 and has, among other things, contributed with information to be used for the phrasing of EU's Energy Performance Building Directive. In the USA, the contact with other interest organizations and political instituti10 6.64 ons has contributed to obtaining consensus on the phasing out of HFC refrigerants. This has resulted in a draft bill and a US proposal to include the phasing out of HFC in the Montreal Protocol. Moreover, a series of symposia arranged by Danfoss help foster discussions about energy and environmental politics by hosting forums where our customers, leaders in the business community and representatives of public-sector authorities can exchange ideas on politics, technologies and solutions that can pave the way for and shape an energy-efficient industrial sector. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Danfoss' Ethics Handbook states that employees must not use political parties, politicians, and related institutions Danfoss’ letter head/mail address to express personal political views by country. (Additionel) or to link Danfoss’ name with party-specific political activities of any 10 6.4.4 kind. Furthermore it is not allowed to financially support political parties on behalf of the company and to use Danfoss effects when taking part in party-specific political activities. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive 5 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their 10 6.6.5 9 outcomes.(Additional) Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of All significant fines (if any) are mentioned in Danfoss’ Annual Report. non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws 5 All breaches of environmental and health & safety laws are 7,8 6.6 and regulations. (Core) 9 mentioned in the Corporate Citizenship Report. LABOUR PRACTICES Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 6 6.4 26, 27 contract, and region. (Core) LA2 Total number and rate of employee 6 6.4 26,27 turnover by age group, gender, and region. (Core) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 34% percent of companies do not have the same pension scheme provided to temporary or part-time employees, by for temporary workers as they have for other employees. major operations. (Additional) 17% of the surveyed companies have other rules for the length of 6 6.4 holidays and payment therefor. In 19% of the companies temporary employees can not elect representatives for the Safety Committees. Labour/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Danfoss is operating in a lot of different countries, also countries where bargaining agreements.(core) there is not a free choice of unionizing. In these cases, Danfoss has established alternative forums in terms of discussing work related issues. An example of an alternative forum is the European Information and Consultation Forum established by Danfoss. The main purpose of EICF is to establish a transnational forum for informa3 6.4 7 tion, consultation and dialogue and to ensure the establishment of information and consultation procedures in matters of importance to Danfoss employees in more than one country. 3 companies indicate that their employees are not free to choose the membership of a Trade Union, but they have established alternative forums where employees can discuss labor issues with the management. Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 34 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference Labour/Management Relations LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant The minimum notice period is directed by national legislation. operational changes, including whether it is specified 8 companies in the CSR survey reports to have undergone layoffs in collective agreements. (Core) affecting more than 10% of the workforce. Three of them economi6.8.5 cally compensated more than required by law. Four offered longer 3 6.4.4 notice period than required, two of them offered extra education/ training to upgrade qualifications and five set up employment offices to help fired employees get a new job. Occupationel Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in The majority of their permanent employees are covered by formal formal joint management-worker health and safety management-employee health and safety committees or forums. 6.4.6 1 committees that help monitor and advise on Temporary workers' health and safety interests are taken care of even occupational health and safety programs. (Additional) though they can not be elected. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and The frequency of accidents for production and administrative areas absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities is calculated for each company and used in the continuous efforts by region. (Core) 6.4.6 1 29 to reduce the number of accidents. The frequency of accidents for production was in 2011 13.5 in Europe, 4.6 in USA and 6.2 in China. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Data not collected. risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members 1 regarding serious diseases.(core) LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Data not collected. with trade unions. (Additional) 3 Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Danfoss reports the number of hours used for training in environemployee category. (Core) 6.4.7 mental and safety related matters. In 2011 46,000 hours were spent on training in these matters. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability 6.4.7 of employees and assist them in managing career 11 6.8.5 endings. (Additional) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Annual employee development dialogues (EDD) are carried out with performance and career development reviews. leaders and employees. In 2011, EDD’s were carried out with 77% of all (Additional) 6.4.7 26, 27 leaders and with 69% of all employees. Both figures show a decrease compared to 2010. In Latin America there are only conducted EDD’s with 58% of leaders and employees in 2011. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown In a lot of countries there are restrictions on what to register in terms of employees per category according to gender, of minorities. In some countries we register the number of disabled age group, minority group membership, and other 6.4 18, 20 people, and also in this area we face restrictions on what to register. 1,6 indicators of diversity. (Core) 6.3.7 26, 27 Danfoss has chosen not to include this question in the CSR survey 2011. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Data not collected. 1,6 category.(core) HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Data not collected. agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. 6.3.3 1,2,3,4,5,6 (Core) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and 6.3 1,2,3,4,5,6 10, 25 actions taken. (Core) HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Training in the Ethics Handbook contains Human Rights and labor procedures concerning aspects of human rights Rights training. Training in the Ethics Handbook by local managethat are relevant to operations, including the ment is not recorded, while corporate training at the local sites is percentage of employees trained.(Additional) recorded. The Ethics E-learning program carried out in Decem6.3 1,2,3,4,5,6 5 ber 2011 was completed by close to 700 managers who in average spent 1 hour each on the training. Additional 120 leaders undertook training at the beginning of 2012, while the remaining 1,500 leaders expected to complete the training in the first half of 2012. Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 35 Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions 6.3.7 1,6 7 taken. (Core) Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise In countries where national law does not give employees the right freedom of association and collective bargaining may to freely choose a trade union or where an established trade union be at significant risk, and actions taken to support system is not possible, Danfoss will make sure that employees can these rights. (Core) 6.3.10 meet with management in other ways to discuss work-related con1,3 7 ditions. 3 companies indicate that their employees are not free to 6.4.3 choose the membership of a Trade Union, but they have established alternative forums where employees can discuss labor issues with the management. Child Labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for In the CSR survey all companies ask to provide information regarding incidents of child labor, and measures taken to the use of employees under the age of 15 and juveniles between 15 contribute to the elimination of child labor. (Core) and 18 years of age. No companies have employees below 15 years of age. In production 15 juveniles are working, hereof 12 trainees, 6.3.7 in administration 5 juveniles are working, hereof 3 trainees. In other 1,5 7 functions 14 juveniles are working and one of them is a trainee. All 6.3.10 ILO Conventions regarding child work regulating how to juveniles should be treated at work are adhered to except two sites were juveniles did not enjoy more breaks than adults. In both cases the juveniles are only working a few hours a day after school. Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Two of Danfoss' factories in Denmark and Romania respectively have incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures suppliers who use prison labor. In both places the use of prison labor to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory 6.3.10 1,4 7 is in accordance with UN rules for prison work. labor. (Core) Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the 43 companies have security personnel on the premises and in only organization’s policies or procedures concerning one of them are guards employed by Danfoss. aspects of human rights that are relevant to Guards’ tasks are typically access control (84%), patrolling at night operations.(Additional) 6.3.5 1 (93%) as well as the monitoring of surveillance cameras (67%) 93 % of companies hashave a written procedure defining the role and responsibility of the security guards. Oprindelige folks rettigheder HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights The CSR survey 2011 disclosed no negative impact on indigenous of indigenous people and actions taken.(Additional) 6.8 1 people. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of All new and changed products shall be subjected to safety examinaproducts and tion in accordance with valid standards before being released for sale, services are assessed for improvement, and percentage unless the character of the changes does not justify such examinaof significant products and services categories subject tion. The decision to omit a safety examination shall be documented. to such procedures. (Core) Registration shall be made during production to document that safety and quality requirements have been and are being met. When products present a real risk of damage or injury as a result of 6.7.4 8 incorrect installation, service and use, all associated technical information and the products themselves shall contain/be marked with a warning of such risk. If after a product has been delivered a problem is discovered which might lead to damage or injury, and especially if damage or injury has occurred, steps shall be taken in accordance with Annex A to call in any such product(s) to determine whether they are defective, and to limit loss/damage/injury on the part of both customers and third parties. Not reported PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Data not collected regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during 6.7.4 8 their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional) Product and Service Labeling PR3 PR3 Type of product and service information required Danfoss complies with all regulations regarding product and service by procedures and percentage of significant products information. and services subject to such information requirements. 6.7 8 (Core) Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 36 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference Product and Service Labeling PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Data not collected regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes.(Additional) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Measurement of customer satisfaction takes place locally, but the including results of surveys measuring customer company is working towards a consolidation of practices at group satisfaction. (Additional) level. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and Danfoss' Communication Policy and Danfoss' Ethics Handbook voluntary codes related to marketing communications, stipulates the rules and guidelines for marketing communication, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. sponsorship agreements and the like. Danfoss aims to sponsor (Core) forward-looking initiatives for the benefit of the company and others located in the local areas where Danfoss operates. Danfoss supports recognized and established organizations, for example sports clubs with a primary affiliation to Danfoss’ employees or other stakeholders in the areas where Danfoss is present. Danfoss bases its sponsorships 6.7.3 on the International Chamber of Commerce’s (ICC) code of sponsoring, which defines guidelines for companies’ ethically sound application of sponsorships. Danfoss does not sponsor motorsport or the like, as it does not comply with the company’s environmental profile; political or religious associations; purposes or activities which conflict with Danfoss’ reputation or values or projects which are closely linked with Danfoss’ competitors. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Danfoss has chosen to let Det Norske Veritas verify a number of regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing so-called Circles of Trust in order to be able to document that communications, including advertising, promotion, and information about the energy-saving potential of Danfoss’ products sponsorship, by type of outcomes. (Additional) or services is true and fair and credible. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Data not collected breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. (Additional) Overholdelse af love, bestemmelser og standarder PR9 Monetær værdi af væsentlige bøder for manglende No fines overholdelse af love, bestemmelser og standarder 6.7 vedrørende levering og brug af produkter og tjenesteydelser ENVIRONMENT Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. (core) 8,9 28 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Not accounted for materials. (core) 8,9 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. (core) 8 28 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core) 8 28 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 8,9 12, 15 improvements.(Additional) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Please see the www.danfoss.com for information about the energy-based products and services, and reductions company's product and services within Climate & Energy. 8,9 12 in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 8,9 12 reductions achieved.(Additional) Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. (Core) 8 15, 28 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Data not collected water. (Additional) 7,8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. (Additional) 8,9 28 Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 37 Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Data not collected in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core) 8 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Data not collected and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core) 7,8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional) Data not collected 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Data not collected managing impacts on biodiversity. (Additional) 8 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation Data not collected list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. (Additional) 7,8 Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Danfoss' Carbon Disclosure Project report weight. (Core) 7,8,9 28 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Danfoss' Carbon Disclosure Project report weight. (Core) 7,8,9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. (Additional) 7,8,9 12 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Danfoss' Carbon Disclosure Project report (Core) 7,8,9 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Data not collected and weight. (Core) 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. (Core) 8 29 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. (Core) 8 29 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. (core) 8 15 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Data not collected waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of 7,8 transported waste shipped internationally. (Additional) EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Data not collected water bodies and related habitats significantly affected 6.5.4 by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and 7,8 6.5.6 runoff. (Additional) Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 38 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Page ISO 26000 GC principle Results/Comments reference Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Data not collected products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 8,9 (Core) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. (core) 8,9 Overholdelse af love, bestemmelser og standarder EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number No fines of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. (Core) 8 Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Data not collected products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members 8 of the workforce. (Additional) Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Data not collected investments by type. (Additional) 7,8 Page reference: Danfoss Annual Report 2011 | Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 39
