Statement from CEO: June 27, 2012 As an active supporter of the United Nation’s Global Compact for the past several years, I would like to take this opportunity to restate TeamPeople’s commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. By presenting our Communication on Progress, we seek to retain our Active level status in the Global Compact for the next year and beyond. With this communication, we emphasize that TeamPeople is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. TeamPeople LLC will make our commitment visible to our community, stakeholders and the general public by displaying our Communication on Progress on our website. Brian Frydenlund Principal (CEO) 125 North Washington Street, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv United Nations Communication on Progress Human Right Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses TeamPeople depends not only upon the skills, abilities and commitment of all our members’ talent, but also on our collective goodwill, judgment, self-discipline, common sense and integrity. As talent of TeamPeople, we commit and support the Human Rights Principles by doing the following:  Provide our clients with quality services;  Treat our clients with respect and honesty;  Adhere to the policies and procedures established at the client site;  Act in an ethical manner as a responsible and responsive corporate citizen. TeamPeople’s Code of Conduct is designed to aid all of our members in conducting themselves in a professional and ethical manner, and to provide guidelines regarding both our employees and our clients’ views on what constitutes a successful placement for placements. We are interested in making every placement work for both our clients and our talent, and we offer support and guidance throughout any of our placements. In order to monitor and evaluate each dedicated staff member of TeamPeople, executive management performs performance reviews at the anniversary date of hire for individual staff members. Every employee is given the opportunity to meet with their managers annually in a formal performance review meeting to discuss their performance over the past year. During the review the employee is urged to speak with the manager about their position as well as their place within TeamPeople. TeamPeople works hard to build an environment which fosters open communication between employees and managers. The performance appraisal process is one important step in ensuring the communication gates stay open and that all employees are aware of their status here at TeamPeople. The process is also a time for the employee to ensure that their personal goals, TeamPeople mission and job duties align. Our employee’s performance review dates normally occur within 30 days of their anniversary dates but can happen at other times. 125 North Washington Street, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation TeamPeople is an Equal Employment Opportunity provider and does not discriminate. TeamPeople has a record of non-discrimination and provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment without regard to race, color, creed, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, marital status, family and medical leave status, ancestry or status as a covered veteran in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws. TeamPeople complies with all applicable state and local laws governing nondiscrimination in employment in every location in which the company has facilities. This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including, but not limited to, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and training. TeamPeople does not participate in any form of forced or compulsory labor, including child labor. As part of its equal employment opportunity policy, TeamPeople is committed to maintaining a work environment free of all forms of unlawful harassment. TeamPeople does not tolerate harassment of our employees by anyone, including any supervisor, co-worker, officer, director, vendor, client or visitor of TeamPeople. Likewise, we prohibit harassment by our employees of clients, guests, visitors or vendors. TeamPeople’s policy against harassment extends beyond the workplace to any work-related setting, such as business trips, business meetings or worksponsored social event. All TeamPeople employees are responsible for assuring that our workplaces are free from prohibited discrimination and harassment. Everyone is expected to avoid any behavior or conduct that could reasonably be interpreted as prohibited discrimination or harassment. No employees – not even the highest ranking people in the company – are exempt from the requirements of this policy. Any individual who violates this policy will be subject to corrective action, up to and including unpaid suspension or immediate termination of employment. This commitment also extends to all work-related settings, including TeamPeople or client sponsored events, such as business trips, training programs and social events. TeamPeople takes discrimination and harassment very seriously and with immediate action. We ask that if any TeamPeople staff member has experienced or witnessed discrimination or harassment, to notify a TeamPeople Manager, Human Resources or the Principal of TeamPeople. TeamPeople then investigates the describing conduct that is inconsistent with our policy thoroughly and promptly. If an investigation confirms that a violation of the policy or other inappropriate conduct has occurred, TeamPeople will take appropriate corrective action, including discipline up to and including immediate termination of employment as appropriate under the circumstances. TeamPeople will discipline an employee, regardless of his or her job 125 North Washington Street, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv position, for any inappropriate conduct discovered during an investigation made under this policy, regardless of whether the conduct amounts to a violation of law or even a violation of this policy, and regardless of when the conduct occurred. If the person who engaged in conduct prohibited by this policy is not employed by TeamPeople, then TeamPeople will take whatever action is reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. In investigating and imposing any discipline or corrective action, TeamPeople will attempt to preserve confidentiality to the extent that the needs of the situation permit. It is imperative that complaining parties and possible witnesses cooperate fully in any such investigation. TeamPeople forbids retaliation against anyone making a report, assisting in making a complaint, or cooperating in an investigation pursuant to this policy. If you feel you have been retaliated against, you are to notify any TeamPeople Manager, Human Resources or any Principal TeamPeople. Concerns about retaliation or attempted retaliation should be raised and will be handled in the same manner as any other concern about harassment or discrimination. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies TeamPeople supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and takes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. We believe in maximizing the positive impact of our office decisions on the health of ecosystems and people, which oftentimes can also positively impact the bottom line. Each of the client sites have expansive programs and here at HQ, we advocate green practices wherever possible. As a small business, we pay attention to ways that we can improve our own carbon footprint and encourage our staff to do the same through our greenpeople initiative that started in 2007. TeamPeople’s approach to greenpeople initiative is to show that we are aware of the growing and widespread magnitude of environmental challenges that are faced locally, regionally, nationally and globally. The threat of escalating energy costs, water restrictions, raw material shortages, polluted air and water, species extinction and global warming looms larger than ever. So there’s another reason for small businesses to green their operations: Not only does it make good business sense, it’s quite simply the right thing to do! TeamPeople takes progressive steps to make our business Earth-friendly. We realize no matter how small initial changes may be, over time the scope of this program will gradually increase, and we will be a proud part of the solution. TeamPeople promotes the following “greenpeople” initiatives at all of our client sites and headquarters. 125 North Washington Street, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv Here are just a few of the initiatives we follow:  Recycle ink & toner cartridges in office machines  Major printings including proposals, done on dual-sided, recycled paper  Conduct electronic invoicing & reporting with clients  Conduct electronic sign-up with vendors  Operate office equipment in ‘energy efficient’ modes  Purchase from other green businesses, using websites such as the local buying guides and the green pages.  Keep lights turned off when not in use  Work with building management to install energy efficient florescent light bulbs  Exploring telecommuting options and encouraging mass transit for employees  Install a water filter on the cold water line in the kitchen  Replace disposable kitchen items (paper plates, plastic wear, paper/plastic cups) with washable, reusable products  Recycle obsolete electronic equipment  Utilizing paperless and electronic systems whenever possible, including invoicing and reporting TeamPeople monitors these initiatives at all of our sites with the help of our higher level management and devoted staff. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery TeamPeople is committed to complying with all anti-corruption principles and laws at TeamPeople sites we operate in. This includes, but is not limited to, laws in the United States and international laws. TeamPeople continues its effort to institute the best practices to achieve the best possible standards in its ongoing compliance with United Nations Anti-Corruption Principle and company-wide standards for ethical business conduct. Measurement of Outcomes In 2012, TeamPeople was able to achieve all performance and targets to support the United Nations 10 Principles. 125 North Washington Street, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv
