Daewoo Securities I Sustainability Report 2011 Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2011 This report is printed on an eco-friendly paper using soy-based ink. 003 Report Overview 1. About This Report This is the third, biannual, publication of the Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report. The report, printed in 2006, was the first published by a Korean securities firm. These reports cover Daewoo Securities’ endeavors Daewoo Securities’ most invaluable asset is the and the progress it has made with its economic, social, and environmental performances. In preparation for this report, we surveyed and intertrust it has earned from its stakeholders over the past 40 years. viewed both internal and external stakeholders in order to reflect their voices on the company’s sustainability management practices. A materiality test identified and prioritized the sustainability issues. Based on the Looking ahead, Daewoo Securities will continue to results, the report disclosed the information on the material issues and strengthen its advanced financial infrastructure and the company’s performances in economic, social and environmental aspects transparently. An independent agency assured the reliability of the contribute to the nation’s economic development, report content. while fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities. 2. Reporting Guidelines This report was compiled based on the GRI G3 Guidelines by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement Guidelines. This year, the ISO26000 on Social Responsibility was added to the reporting guidelines, in consideration of the GRI Index. 3. Characteristics of the Report This report added the ISO26000 to its reporting guidelines, improving the reported content’s substantiality. This report also reflects the stakeholder voices by presenting the findings from their surveys and interviews, as well as though materiality test results, in the content structure. 4. Reporting Scope and Period Daewoo Securities publishes sustainability reports every two years. The coverage of this report spans the two fiscal years from April 1st, 2009 to March 31st, 2011, covering the current status and achievements of sustainability management practices within Daewoo Securities. As to the key performance indicators, chronological data for three to four years are provided. The reporting scope includes the headquarters of the company, Gwacheon Human Resources Development (HRD) Institute, the IT Center, the domestic branch network and overseas subsidiaries. As for the environmental performance data, however, the scope was limited to several of the company’s domestic operations including the headquarters, HRD Institute, and IT Center as data from domestic and overseas operations are not currently available. The base currency used in this report is Korean won (KRW). 5. Assurance Statement The reliability and inclusiveness of the report content was verified by a third party assurance provider, Korea Productivity Center (KPC) against the AA1000AS (2008) criteria, based on the three principles of the AA1000 APS (2008). Daewoo Securities declares that this report corresponds to the application level A+ rating, which was confirmed following a review by the GRI. 6. For Additional Information… For further information not included in the report, please contact. • Address _ Investor Relations Team, Business Management Department at: 34-3, Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-716, Korea. • Tel _ 82-2-768-2115 Fax _ 82-2-768-2119 • email _ sustain@dwsec.com 003 2011 Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report Cover story Daewoo Securities’ most invaluable asset is the • trust it has earned from its stakeholders over the past 40 years. Share is the slogan we picked for the 2011 Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report to carry our determination to sharing greater value for our stakeholders through sustainable growth. Looking ahead, Daewoo Securities will continue to strengthen its advanced financial infrastructure and contribute to the nation’s economic development, while fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities. Contents • Report Overview 001 • CEO's Message 004 Company profile 006 • Company Profile 008 • Chronology 012 • Vision & Strategy 014 Sustainability Leadership 016 • Sustainability Management System 018 • Corporate Governance 020 • Risk Management 023 • Business Ethics & Transparency 026 • Stakeholder Communication 030 • Stakeholders Interview 034 Stakeholder Management 036 • Trust Management 038 • Value Management 046 • Talent Management 052 • Community Engagement 062 • Green Management 072 Appendix 080 • UN Global Compact 081 • Third Party's Assurance Statement 082 • GRI Application Level Check Statement 084 • GRI G3 Guidelines 085 Website : http://www.bestez.com/ir/DAEWOO • Membership / Reader's Feedback 091 The PDF form of this report is also available at our website. 004 005 CEO’s Message Daewoo Securities aims to become one of Asia’s leading financial Dear Stakeholders, Today, Daewoo Securities is poised to take another step forward in its commitment to social contribuinvestment companies, and will work tirelessly to ensure that it I would like to begin this message by expressing my tion. In an effort to address rapidly changing financial sincere appreciation for your unwavering support of markets, we are leading the development of Korea’s meets its corporate social responsibilities as it helps develop Daewoo Securities. financial markets, while maintaining the trust and a sustainable society for every stakeholder. The sustainable growth of a company depends on support of our stakeholders by achieving sustainable how well it communicates with stakeholders about growth through the following strategies. its past, present and future plans. When Daewoo First, the underlying principle for mutual prosperity Securities became the first Korean securities firm with our stakeholders is that we must be held acto publish a sustainability report in 2006, we demoncountable to the very highest global standards for strated that we were serious about communicating business ethics. As such, we are mobilizing all availclearly and honestly with stakeholders, guaranteeing able resources to train our employees in legal comthe transparency of all our economic, social and enpliance and the prevention of grievances and unfair vironmental activities and performance results. transactions. In the future, we will commit ourselves Since our second sustainability report was published even further to maintaining a sense of integrity with in 2009, Daewoo Securities has established itself as respect to our corporate culture. Korea’s top financial investment company. In fact, Second, we will continue to develop customerwe had the honor of representing Korean financial oriented financial products and services that are institutions at the G20 Seoul Business Summit, and also socially and environmentally responsible. As a to accompany President Lee Myung-bak on a state leader in green finance, we are also looking for ways visit to Malaysia. This, of course, also generated new to financially address climate change and raise sobusiness opportunities for the company. cially responsible funds to support eco-friendly busiIn order to ensure the sustainable development of nesses. a company and to generate profits on a consistent Third, we are strengthening our social contribution basis, it is just as important to practice social and activities to help bring about a better world for eveenvironmental responsibility as it is economic reryone. Internally, we are inspiring our employees to sponsibility. As Korea’s leading financial investment share in the spirit of generosity by encouraging them company, Daewoo Securities has certain social reto make donations, as well as in the spirit of volunsponsibilities expected of it. As such, we relentlessly teerism. Externally, we are extending our support to put into action our ethical business principle of convarious community programs, and developing new tributing to the sound development not just of finanprograms in an effort to increase our returns to social markets but also of Korea in a broader context. ciety. As a result, the company has developed several soThis report reflects stakeholder surveys and matericially responsible investment vehicles and services, ality test results so that it better reflects the diverse such as our SRI Funds for a Better World, S&P opinions and feedback from stakeholders on Daewoo Clean Energy Funds, and the Daewoo Green Korea Securities’ sustainability management practices. Master Wrap. Developed jointly with Korea DevelopThis increased stakeholder engagement further ment Bank (KDB), KDB Asset Management, and the enhances the efficiency and transparency of discloInstitute for Industrial Policy Studies, our SRI Funds sures concerning the company’s economic, social, for a Better World is an SRI fund product that doand environmental endeavors and achievements. nates a portion of all profits to social causes, which will ultimately benefit society as a whole. Daewoo Securities will strive to secure future growth engines through relentless management innovaIn line with our ethical obligation to contribute to Kotion, while fulfilling its social responsibilities through rea’s development, Daewoo Securities established ethical and transparent management practices, ina social volunteer group in 2009 which actively encessant volunteerism, and green finance initiatives. gages in social contribution activities. In September I kindly ask all our stakeholders for your continued 2010, the government recognized the group’s philansupport and encouragement. thropic work with multicultural families and underprivileged youth by awarding it the Prime Minister’s Thank you. Award on Korea’s 11th Social Welfare Day. President & CEO Kee-Young Im 006 007 01 Company profile Company profile As Korea’s top financial investment company, Daewoo Securities is dedicated to becoming one of Asia’s leading IB houses and will continue to change and innovate in order to reach its goals. 008 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 009 Stakeholder Management Appendix Company Profile Since its founding in 1970, Daewoo Securities has maintained Overview Company profile its role as Korea’s leading securities firm, contributing to the With an aim to become Asia’s leading securities firm, Daewoo Securities actively diversifies its business portCompany Profile folios. At the same time, the company is committed to its corporate social responsibility and practices sustaindevelopment of the Korean capital markets. It is Korea’s top financial ability management in all its business activities. As a globally competent total investment company, it devotes Overview investment company, unrivaled in the scale of its revenue and total Network itself to creating economic value, to providing the best possible financial services to its customers, to creating jobs, and to preserving the environment for the local communities where it operates. shareholders’ equity, as well as market share. Share Ownership Business Areas Hit Products Company Description (As of the end of March 2011) Website : http://www.bestez.com/ir/DAEWOO Name Daewoo Securities co., Ltd. Establishment September 1970 CEO Kee-Young Im Network Domestic 120 branches, 3 overseas subsidiaries and 4 representative offices abroad No. of Employees 3,125 persons Business Areas Brokerage, wealth management, IB, securities trading Flagship Brands, Power Installment Package, Star Portfolio, Super Manager Wrap, Golden Age Trust Products & Services Paid-in Capital KRW 1.02 trillion Total Assets KRW 17.94 trillion Network Headquartered on Yeoui-do, in central Seoul, the heart of the Korean financial industry, Daewoo Securities operates 120 branches nationwide, servicing 1.59 million domestic customers. Its 3,247 dedicated employees provide advanced financial services to international customers through a global network of subsidiaries in New York, London, and Hong Kong, as well as four representative offices in Tokyo, Ho Chi Minh City, Beijing, and Shanghai. Daewoo Securities Network Overseas Network Domestic Branch Network Daewoo Securities Tokyo (Europe) Ltd. North Seoul Representative in London Office Beijing Representative Office Shanghai Headquarters Representative Ho Chi Mihn City Office West Seoul South Seoul Representative Office Headquarter 1 Daewoo Securities South Seoul (Hong Kong) Ltd. Headquarter 2 (Seoul) GyeongGi Retail Sales Unit JungBu Retail Sales Unit GyeongBuk Retail Sales Unit Daewoo GyeongNam Securities HoNam Retail Retail Sales Busan Retail (America) Inc. Sales Unit Unit Sales Unit in New York (Korea) 010 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 011 Stakeholder Management Appendix Company Profile Share Ownership charges commissions on those services. Leveraging its expertise in trading and financial engineering, Company profile Company profile as well as its unmatched sales competencies, Daewoo Securities has achieved a significant growth in The KDB Financial Group launched in October of 2009, is comprised of five affiliate financial companies, Company Profile Company Profile the business, with WM balance reaching an industry-leading KRW 45 trillion. including Daewoo Securities, the Korea Development Bank(KDB), and KDB Asset Management. With the launch, the majority shareholder of Daewoo Securities changed from KDB to the KDB Financial Group, Overview Overview Investment Banking Network holding 39.1% of the shares in Daewoo Securities. Network Daewoo Securities’ investment banking (IB) business provides a total financial solution ranging from IPOs, Share Ownership Share Ownership rights offerings, bond issuance and structured financing (ABS, ABCP) to consulting services, including Business Areas Share Ownership Structure Business Areas (As of the end of March 2011) business consulting, M&A, project financing, and private equity funds (PEF). The Company's industryHit Products Hit Products leading financial structuring abilities and deal sourcing competencies have enabled the company to successfully carry out several major deals, proving its market leadership as Korea’s No.1 IB house. KDB Financial Group 39.1% KDB Financial Group 36.4% Sales & Trading National Pension Service 4.4% National Pension Service 4.1% Daewoo Securities generates profits from the sales and trading of diverse financial products, such as Common Foreign investors 11.1% Foreign investors 10.6% Share Percentage stocks, fixed incomes, proprietary trading, and derivatives, such as ELS and ELW. The sales and trading Treasury Stock 2.5% Treasury Stock 3.2% business promises to be the future growth engine of the company, having contributed 33% of the compaOthers 42.8% Others 45.6% ny-wide total revenue for fiscal year 2010, contributing to the overall, balanced growth of the company. Hit Products Business Areas Golden Age Daewoo Securities is a comprehensive financial investment company with global competencies in all its Investors are paid back 0.5% in cash for their monthly investments, starting business areas, ranging from brokerage, wealth management, investment banking to sales and tradfrom the month following their initial investment. The diversified asset portfolio ing. It commands unrivalled leadership in the brokerage business, of which it has sustained the largest includes equity-type ETF, mixed-type funds, treasury bonds, and AAA-grade market share in terms of brokerage commissions for seven consecutive years. bonds, targeting excess earnings on the principals in each type of asset. Business Portfolio 8% 6% 10% Daewoo Securities Power Installment Package 23% 32% 33% FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 A customer-oriented investment solution, where investors can choose and 6% 7% Wealth Management 8% 6% 10% build investment portfolios that best fit their financial needs. 5% 7% 7% 9% Sales & Trading 23% 32% 33% Investment Banking 6% 7% 7% 51% 48% 42% Interest Income 5% 7% 9% Brokerage 51% 48% 42% FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Daewoo Securities Star Portfolio Available in two types, classic for aggressive investors and neutral for conservative investors, this product draws on Daewoo Securities’ advanced Brokerage research infrastructure to manage customers’ asset portfolios. Through its brokerage business, Daewoo Securities provides brokerage services related to the buying and selling of stocks, futures, options, ELW, and other financial investment vehicles, and charges commissions on those services. At Daewoo Securities, the brokerage business is divided into retail and wholesale (both domestic and international) customer groups. Daewoo Super Manager Wrap A wrap of wrap accounts for diversified investments in top investment advisors Wealth Management and advisor-wrap accounts, managed by excellent investment advisors and Daewoo Securities’ wealth management business provides advisory services on the purchase and sale highly competent managers. of financial investment vehicles, such as beneficiary certificates, wrap accounts, ELS, and trust and 012 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 013 Stakeholder Management Appendix Chronology With 40 years of experience creating value for its customers and Website : http://www.bestez.com/ir/DAEWOO shareholders, all the while growing along with the Korean financial Visit our website for more details on our corporate history. industry, Daewoo Securities now taking another leap into a brighter future. 2010. 12. 01 CI Declaration 1970. 09. 23 Established Dong Yang Securities Co., Ltd. 1984. 05. 22 Opening of Daewoo Research Institute 2010. 10. 15 Publication of the 40th anniversary corporate history book. 1993. 10. 23 Completion of the new IT center 2010. 08. 23 Launch of Trading Center • • 2004. July. 20 Selected “Korea’s brokerage house of 2008. Feb. 03 Launched the next-generation IT 2004” by Finance Asia, a Hong Kongsystem named “BESTezOn” 1970 1990 based magazine June. 13 Launched bank-related online service 1970. Sep. 23 Established Dong Yang Securities Co., 1998. May. 19 Named brokerage house of the year by Nov. 23 Selected “Korea’s fixed-income “Direct We” Ltd. Korean authorities and Asia Money brokerage house of 2004” by Aug. 18 Repurchased the head office building 1973. Sep. 01 Acquired by Daewoo Corporation Aug. 01 Selected Korea’s research firm of the International Financing Review in Yeouido-dong, Seoul 1975. Sep. 26 Initial Public Offering year by Euromoney, Maekyung 2005. Sep. 23 Revealed new corporate identity Nov. 25 Regained license on previous business Economy, and others Dec. 13 Topped securities firm category of the under Capital Market Consolidation Act 1999. Aug. 30 Majority shareholder changed from National Customer Satisfaction Index 2009. Oct. 28 KDB Financial Group launched and • Daewoo Group to bank consortium (NCSI) became the majority shareholder of 1980 Oct. 01 Separation from Daewoo Group Dec. 16 Received the “Individual investor’s Daewoo Securities favorite securities firm” Paxnet Award 2010. Mar. 02 Listing of Daewoo Securities Green 1983. Oct. 20 Renamed Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. for second year in a row Korea SPAC (the first of its kind in Asia) Dec. 19 Acquired Sambo Securities Co., Ltd., • 2006. Apr. 18 Received the deputy primere prize creating Korea’s largest securities firm Oct. 15 Published the 40th Anniversary 2000 at the “Korea IB Awards” by Money Corporate History book of 1984. May. 14 Launched Korea Fund, the first in the Today for a third year in a row Daewoo Securities market to attract foreign investment 2000. May. 16 Majority shareholder changed to 2007. Aug. 01 Opened the first wealth management into the Korean stock markets Korea Development Bank Dec. 01 Revealed the integrated corporate center in Dogok-dong Seoul identity of KDB Financial Group Sep. 28 Opened an office in New York, 2001. Oct. 15 Launched “BESTez Qway,” a cyber Sep. 26 Credit rating upgraded to AA a first among Korean companies trading system Dec. 08 Established a representative office Oct. 15 Opened the Wealth Management in Shanghai 2002. Oct. 11 Sales of OTC derivatives business Consulting Center authorized, the first in the industry Jan. 17 Earned a Baa2 grade from Moody’s to be authorized Nov. 12 Opened the IB Center in Beomil-dong, for the first time Busan Feb. 22 Opened the Shanghai representative office 014 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 015 Stakeholder Management Appendix Vision & Strategy 2020 Global Top20 • Vision Daewoo Securities’ vision is to be the IB leader in Asia by 2015. Not satisfied with its dominant leadership role in the domestic markets, the company is working to reposition itself as a leading global IB house. • Core Value Daewoo Securities values its trusted relationships with customers, which the company has built up over the past 40 years based on a customer-oriented founding philosophy. • Management Strategies With an aim to become the top regional IB house of Asia, Daewoo Securities channels all of its available resources into securing sustainable growth engines 2015 through close collaboration and balanced growth among all its business divisions, both domestic and overseas. By actively embracing and responding to market Asia Top10 challenges through bold innovation, every member of Daewoo Securities is ready to compete with leading global financial institutions. Expanding 2010 Preparation for Leap Infra Enhancing 016 017 02 Sustainability Leadership Sustainabiliity Leadership At Daewoo Securities, sustainability management is firmly rooted in the trust given and engagement afforded by its stakeholders and it is this trust-based relationship that provides a basis for Daewoo Securities’ sustainability management initiatives. 018 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 019 Stakeholder Management Appendix Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management Strategic Scheme Sustainability Management Performance Highlights Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Leadership The sustainability management strategies of Daewoo Securities are comprised of six sustainability Daewoo Securities realized tangible results in several of its sustainability management evaluations, Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management System management strategy missions, based on the six core values. The company will continue to improve living up to its responsibilities as a global leader. and upgrade its strategic sustainability management system. Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Strategic Scheme Strategic Scheme Listed on the KRX SRI Index Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Organization Daewoo Securities Sustainability Management Strategic Scheme Organization Daewoo Securities was listed on the Korea Exchange Socially Responsible Investment Index (KRX Sustainability Management Sustainability Management SRI) in 2010. The KRX SRI is Korea’s first SRI index, which reviews and selects the 70 best performPerformance Highlights Performance Highlights ers in terms of socially responsible investing among Korean companies listed on the KOSPI and Vision KOSDAQ. Asia’s leading global IB house Named to DJSI Asia Pacific Daewoo Securities was listed among the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) Asia Pacific financial institutions, in 2010. By bringing together the expertise of the leading index providers, Dow Jones Indexes and the world-renowned pioneer in sustainability investing in SAMs, the DJSI reviews Creating Strengthening Establishing Fulfilling corporate Leading the Missions sustainable stakeholder Retaining and fostering talent mutually beneficial social green finance the performances in terms of sustainability in the Asia Pacific markets. It also serves as a reliable customer value communication partnerships responsibility industry benchmark for sustainability. Core Customer Social Environmental Communication HRD Mutual Growth Values Value Contribution Management Received Official Commendation by Korea’s Prime Minister Daewoo Securities launched an official volunteer corps in 2009, which engages in various community programs, including volunteering to teach at afterschool programs for the underprivileged. In recSustainability Management Organization ognition of its commitment to making social contributions, Daewoo Securities received official commendation from Korea’s Prime Minister at the 11th Social Work Day ceremony for being a model Daewoo Securities organized the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee for a company-wide of corporate social responsibility. integrated approach to sustainability management. Chaired by the CEO, the Committee encourages its employees to participate actively and creatively in sustainability management initiatives. The company also strives to establish a process for inter-departmental collaboration, to create synergies among them. Organization CEO CSR Head of Business Headofofrespective Head Business Each department Management Unit Management division Unit Company-wide planning Check, implementation Company-wide and planning Implementation and mission, coordination, review of missions and mission, by each coordination, of missions evaluation department evaluation Auditor/Compliance Officer Compliance program • DJSI Asia Pacific 020 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 021 Stakeholder Management Appendix Corporate Governance Organization Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Leadership Daewoo Securities has an advanced corporate governance that meets global standards. For instance, the CEO Corporate Governance Corporate Governance also sits as the chair of the board of directors. Consisting of one executive and one outside director, the Audit Committee ensures the independence of the board. Management activities are under the strict control of a Organization Organization Board of Directors strong legal framework and code of ethics. The top management applies their respective expertise to the susBoard of Directors tainable development of the company as a financial leader. Corporate Governance ① General Shareholders’ Meeting ② ③ ④ ⑤ ⑥ ⑦ Board of Directors Audit Committee ① Kee-Young Im ⑤ Hae-Sung Ryu CEO ② Seung-Han Yoon ⑥ Jin-Gyu Park Regular Audit Committee ③ Jin-Ho Kim ⑦ Chan-Seok Oh BOD Composition ④ Seong-IL Hong Wealth Management Group Global Market Group BOD Profile Retail Wholesale Investment Global Financial International Head Office Position Name Career Duties Overseas Office Business Business Banking Business Market Business Business Administrative · Former vice chairman of Deutsche Securities Korea President & CEO Kee-Young Im · Former CEO of IBK Securities President & CEO, · (Present) vice president of Korea Chairman of the board Financial Investment Association · Head of the Coordination Planning Secretariat of Board of Directors Financial Supervisory Service Daewoo Securities BOD is comprised of two standing and five non-standing directors (one executive and four · Head of Financial Supervisory Service Tokyo Regular Auditor outside directors). Under the BOD, five subcommittees, including the Steering Committee, the Compensation Statutory Auditor Seung-Han Yoon Representative Office in Japan Committee member · Research member of committee at Financial Committee, the Outside Director Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Risk Management ComSupervisory Service Coordination Planning mittee operate to ensure independence and professionalism in the decision-making process. The BOD deliberSecretariat ates and resolves on matters prescribed in the relevant regulations and the company’s Articles of Incorporation, · General manager of the corporate financing the agenda commissioned by the general shareholders’ meeting, and the basic policy and business matters department, UBS Seoul branch related to management activities. At all times, the BOD works hard to maximize shareholder value and ensure Non-standing Jin-Ho Kim · Head of the IB/PE division of KTB Investment Non-standing Director the sustainable development of the company. Director Securities · (Present) senior managing director & CFO of KDB Financial Group Inc. BOD Subcommittees · Vice president of Samsung Securities Senior Seong-Il Hong · CEO of Korea Investment & Securities Senior Outside Director Outside Director · Outside director of IBK Securities Board of Directors · (Present) Chairman of Korea Corporate Development Consulting Committee Outside Director Hae-Sung Ryu Outside Director · (Present) Vice chairman representing Seodaemun-gu Outside Director at the National Unification Advisory Council Steering Compensation Risk Management Nomination Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee · Director of Asian Development Bank Committee (one executive and two (two executive and (two executive and three (two executive and two · Senior Advisor of Deloitte Anjin Accounting Firm Outside Director (two executive and two outside directors) Outside Director Jin-Gyu Park two outside directors) outside directors) outside directors) outside directors) · (Present) Senior Researcher of Korea Institue of Development Strategy Resolves on the personnel increases, Reviews the risk · Finance director of Korea Institute of Certified Resolves on Resolves on remuneration to recommends and Audits the internal management Public Accountatns key management evaluates the control system and performance and the Outside Director Chan-Seok Oh Outside Director issues directors and qualifications of business results appropriateness of · (Present) independent director of LG Hausys executives candidates for investment positions · (Present) adjunct professor of Ewha Women’s outside directors University Business School 022 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 023 Stakeholder Management Appendix Corporate Governance Risk Management Operation of the BOD Risk Management Organization Sustainability Leadership Daewoo Securities’ BOD develops management goals for each fiscal year and determines manageSustainability Leadership Daewoo Securities’ risk management organization ensures that the risk management policies of the top Corporate Governance ment policies and makes decisions on key managerial issues based on those goals. The company Risk Management management are well understood and put into practice. provides related data and information to the BOD in advance, so that they can make an informed Organization Risk Management Organization decision. When necessary, the executive responsible briefs the BOD on related matters. A monthly Board of Directors Risk Management Overview report is made to the BOD on general management and business issues, and the BOD offers feedRisk Management Organization Chart Liquidity Contingency Plan back, enhancing efficiency in the management system. Board of Directors Decision-Making Process Risk Management Committee CEO In order to ensure a fair decision-making process, resolutions are passed by the affirmative votes of the majority of directors with voting rights, where the majority of directors are in attendance. Any Chief Risk Officer Proprietary asset risk Trust asset risk management council management council director who has a related interest in the agenda at the meeting shall abstain from voting, but can suggest his/her opinion. In the event that some or all of the BOD members are unable to be present Risk Management Department at the meeting, they can attend through telepresence. Business Retail Business Wholesale IB Business GFM Business International Management Unit Business Unit Unit Unit Business Unit Professionalism of Non-Standing Directors Unit Risk Manager Risk Manager Risk Manager Risk Manager Risk Manager Risk Manager Daewoo Securities entrusts the process of searching, interviewing and evaluating the candidates for its outside directors to the Outside Director Nomination Committee. The committee recommends Risk Reporter Risk Reporter Risk Reporter Risk Reporter Risk Reporter Risk Reporter candidates from among experts in the areas of finance, economy, management, law, accounting, and media. The recommended candidates are reviewed and confirmed at the General Shareholders’ Risk Management Committee Meeting. The four outside directors of Daewoo Securities contribute their expertise to the decisionmaking process of the BOD. Consisting of more than three directors, including at least one outside director, the Risk Management Committee is at the head of the risk management-related decision-making structure. The committee develops risk management strategies in line with corporate management strategies and audits risk Performance Evaluation Process management performance. Comprised of the majority of the members, including outside directors, the Compensation CommitMajor issues that the committee reviews and resolves on include enacting and revising risk managetee ensures objective evaluation of each director’s performance and the calculation for remunerament regulations, guidelines, and systems, setting adequate capital ratio levels including risk appetite, tion to the directors accordingly. The committee sets the executive remuneration limit and deterapproving criteria for judging liquidity crisis and contingency plans, enactment or changes to key risk mines the amount of compensation given to each director. It can also review the remuneration limits management systems, setting the total risk limits of the company by year and quarter, approving total with the directors before submitting them to the General Shareholders’ Meeting. risk limits by year and quarter, setting liquidity risk limits, extending large-size credit lines, and approval of improvements and major changes to the risk management system. Active Communication with Shareholders and Employees The nomination and dismissal of committee members is determined by the BOD. The committee chair Daewoo Securities employees report on the key management issues and complaints regarding huis selected from among the members. man rights issues to the BOD for extensive discussion and consultation with the BOD. Risk Management Department The Risk Management Department implements and oversees risk policies and procedures in practice, as determined by the committee and council, and reports the results and performance to the Risk Maninterview I Eun-Seok Jung, Head of Part, Business Management Department agement Committee·Council, and to top management. The department also monitors and reports on general asset management within the company, as well as risk management practices. Risk Manager interview The risk manager, assigned from among the transaction-related business unit staff, works independently of transaction-related departments to assess the operational positions and profit/loss of transWith the launch of the KDB Financial Group in 2009, Daewoo Securities stepped up its progress in achieving greater actions, and all related risk factors of each business division. The risk manager then reports the assesstransparency in its corporate governance and in putting a specialized management board in place. The outside diment results to the head of the division and notifies the risk management department. rectors contribute their extensive knowledge and experience in financial markets to assist in a balanced and wellinformed decision making process. The monthly BOD meetings provide a venue for the BOD to discuss and reflect on Risk Reporter market developments, to further reinforce the business competencies of the company. All these activities and efforts Risk reporters are selected from each transaction-related department to report on the current status of are ultimately focused on maximizing shareholder and corporate value. their departments’ risk activities to the immediate supervisor and to the Risk Management Department. 024 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 025 Stakeholder Management Appendix Risk Management Risk Management Overview VaR. The system has three benefits. First, it provides the company with a platform for an exhaustive Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Leadership analysis of the company-wide process, so as to eliminate any operational inefficiency. Second, the comCommitted to a company-wide comprehensive risk management system, Daewoo Securities has enRisk Management Risk Management pany is now able to determine and prioritize the operational risks at each level of process levels, allowacted regulations, guidelines, and criteria for efficient risk management through operational methods ing intensive scrutiny of major risks. Finally, it allows the company to calculate the operational risk VaR Risk Management Organization and risk assessment. Risk Management Organization with internally-developed metrics. Risk Management Overview Risk Management Overview Risk Management Systems Liquidity Contingency Plan Liquidity Contingency Plan Liquidity Risk Management System In response to regulatory requirements, Daewoo Securities developed the liquidity risk management Daewoo Securities Risk Management System system to address the growing liquidity risk in proportion to growing uncertainty in the financial markets. The system allows the company to meet the minimal regulatory requirements of liquidity ratio and Total Risk New Risk Operational Risk Liquidity Risk liquidity gap measurements, with the capacity of scenario testing in the event of a crisis. Management System Management System Management System Management System Risk type Total Risk Market/Credit Risk Operational Risk Liquidity Risk Assessment Consolidation of Market/Credit VaR, Operational VaR Liquidity gap, liquidity ratio Liquidity Contingency Plan Results individual risks sensitivity, etc. Daewoo Securities has instituted a liquidity contingency plan in the event of an unforeseen liquidity crisis, such · Risk data integrated database · Capital adequacy management · Risk & Control Self Assessment · Calculating liquidity amount as one arising from abrupt changes in financial market conditions or an abrupt shock to the market system. The · Market/credit risk measuring · (RAPM) Risk-adjusted performance measure system (RCSA) by account and maturity company monitors the net liquidity-to-equity capital ratio to ascertain the crisis level and then considers external Functions · Risk analysis by department, · Key Risk Indicators (KRI) · Liquidity gap and calculating · Stress testing product and type · Loss of data control liquidity ratio factors to determine whether the crisis requires a rating of precaution, watch, or severe. The contingency · DB Risk data integrated database · Reviewing and reporting the · Risk measuring & reporting · Risk assessment and reporting plan provides guidelines for funding and trading, proprietary trading, and stakeholder communication depending resultsdatabase on the nature of the crisis, and allocates responsibilities to each of the related departments for efficient impleOutside PWC SunGard PWC In-house development mentation of the crisis plans. consulting Imported Self-developed engine Adaptive Panorama Self-developed engine Self-developed engine engine Liquidity Contingency Plan Before the Detection of DecisionTotal Risk Management System crisis crisis making Execution Reporting Lifting Daewoo Securities established a comprehensive risk management system in February 2011 to meet the Minimal Requirement for Risk Management at Securities Firms recommended by the Financial SuperAlarming the crisis Execution of Decision-making Reporting of the Monitoring of and decisioncontingency and reporting Entering into progress and visory Board, and remain in line with the initiatives by the KDB Financial Group to establish a comprenet liquidity and the crisis making on the plan in the areas results of the of the lifting financial market execution of of funding, hensive risk management system. The system also sets guidelines for calculating the integrated risk detection stage execution of the of the contingency trends contingency plan proprietary trading, Contingency Plan plan (precaution, watch, and stakeholder capitals and risk management, as well as risk-adjusted performance measurement (RAPM). crisis) communication New Risk Management System Daewoo Securities developed the New Risk Management System (hereinafter referred to as “the New System”) in May of 2008. The New System allows the company to flexibly respond to rapidly changing financial markets and business environments with the advent of complex financial products such as ELS, the enforcement of the Capital Market Act, the introduction of risk-based supervision (RBS) approach interview I Tae-Jun Cho, Head of Compliance Unit by financial authorities, and the growing need for risk management in new business areas. The New System adopts a real-time risk management process on OTC derivatives such as ELS and ELW, a first among Korean financial institutions. In particular, the key to the process is the “transplant of internal evaluation models,” to which Daewoo Securities has adjusted its internal model of SunGard, the world’s interview renowned risk management company, to the needs of the company. With the enforcement of the Capital Market Consolidation Act in 2009, the investment banking business has grown in Operational Risk Management System significance as it relates to the financial markets. In proportion to the broadening scope of businesses, however, the need for advanced risk management and internal control system continues to rise. As a leading financial investment The Operational Risk Management System consists of the process management system, which allows company, Daewoo Securities has established a company-wide, its stable risk management system and internal concompany-wide control over the risk management process, self-assessment of the operational risk control system place customer and investor protection as the top priority. In the future, Daewoo Securities will continue trol, the management of loss events, key risk indicator control, and the measuring of operational risk its effort to retain its position as an advanced financial system and increase the sustainable growth of the industry. 026 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 027 Stakeholder Management Appendix Business Ethics & Transparency Ethical & Transparent Management System Business Ethics & Compliance Training Performance Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Leadership In a bid to internalize ethical business practices, Daewoo Securities has set up a dedicated team and Business Ethics & Transparency Business Ethics & Transparency enacted a code of ethics. No. of cases Training hours Ethical & Transparent Management Ethical & Transparent Management 75 89 131 128 140 135 System System Business Ethics Organization Business Ethics Organization Business Ethics Organization Performance Performance Daewoo Securities has a dedicated team that encourages ethical business practices companywide, and Internal Control Internal Control enhances transparency in its management activities. The team encourages employees to study the code of ethics and to implement the code’s ethical practices while fulfilling their duties. FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Business Ethics Organization Chart Audit Committee Compliance Officer Integrity Pact-Signing One Regular Audit Committee Member On every anniversary of its founding, Daewoo Securities holds an integrity pact signing ceremony in order to raise Two outside directors Compliance Unit employees’ awareness to business ethics and compliance. During the event, employees explicitly affirm their commitment to business ethics and compliance with laws and regulations. Audit Department Compliance Unit Legal Affairs Department Business Ethics Day 23 persons 14 persons 14 persons Daewoo Securities designated a “Business Ethics Day” to provide its employees with opportunities for regular review of the compliance practices and the ethical requirements expected. Every first Wednesday, employees check if any possibility of breaches of law or other legal issues, in the due courses of daily business activities, have occurred and make proper corrections or improvements when necessary. Performances • Compliance Program At Daewoo Securities, business ethics and transparent management mean employee-led ethical practicIntegrity Pact Daewoo Securities runs various Compliance Programs to ensure fair transactions and mutually beneficial partes, system-based ethical business practices, the propagation of business ethics, and mutually beneficial nerships with its suppliers, checking and preventing any breach or irregularity in its transactions with suppliers. partnerships with suppliers. In order to ensure a fair and transparent process of purchase and procurement, the company has put in place Enactment of Code of Ethics the Procurement Audit Committee. In addition, the company continuously checks and improves its internal poliDaewoo Securities enacted the Code of Conduct in December 1995, as a set of behavioral guidelines for cies, bylaws, systems, and institutions to ensure transparent and fair transactions with suppliers. There were no its employees. Since then, employees have been required to follow the Code of Ethics, which stipulates violations of fair competition or antitrust provisions during the reporting period. detailed behavioral guidelines. With the amendment to the preface in July of 2004, the company distributed posters about “Our pledge and code of ethics,” including the provisions, as well as the preface, to its branches and departments. • interview I Chang-Wook Ban, Head of Part, Audit Department Enactment of Code of Ethics Compliance Training • Daewoo Securities has consistently given training to its entire workforce on regulatory compliance and Business Ethics Day the prevention of complaints or unfair transactions. The company distributes updates and notifications on compliance requirements through the intranet, as well as cyber courses on reducing complaints and preventing accidents. In addition to the visit-and-training programs by the Compliance Department, each interview department also regularly alerts its staff to the importance of business ethics and legal compliance in The 21st century business environment requires that ethical business practices be the essential factor for the susterms of human rights protection practices and consequences. tainable growth of businesses. In anticipation of this, Daewoo Securities declared a Code of Business Ethics as early as 1995, when the concept was new to the nation. Every subsequent year, the company has held a ceremony Human Rights Training encouraging all of its employees to pledge their commitment to the Code of Business Ethics. It also has a desigDaewoo Securities gave training in the prevention of sexual harassment to its entire staff, including secunated Business Ethics Day once a month, to remind employees of their responsibility to use ethical practices in all rity guards, in 2010. The company makes it a priority to give such training at least once a year. During the aspects of their work. While applying high ethical standards, Daewoo Securities strives to fulfill its corporate social reporting period, there were no complaints of disciplinary actions taken regarding sexual harassment. responsibilities. 028 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 029 Stakeholder Management Appendix Business Ethics & Transparency Internal Control Unethical Behavior Reporting Program Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Leadership Daewoo Securities uses its reporting program to incorporate ethics and compliance practices into its Daewoo Securities has set up a company-wide internal control system to prevent financial irregulariBusiness Ethics & Transparency Business Ethics & Transparency ties and to instill the importance of following ethical guidelines. In addition to regular monitoring of corporate culture, thereby preventing risks and minimizing damage and losses in the event of financial irregularities. The reporters can use phones, e-mails, and interviews to report on unethical behavior or exposure to the risk of corruption at all company premises, the code of ethics and related regulations Ethical & Transparent Management Ethical & Transparent Management System strictly prohibit employees from engaging in political activities or making donations to political parties. System regulatory breaches to the Compliance Department. The reporters’ identity remains confidential and, Business Ethics Organization Business Ethics Organization when they want, they can be transferred to different departments or branches. In addition, incentives Performance Anti-Money Laundering System Performance and rewards are offered to motivate and encourage the reporting of wrongdoing. Internal Control Internal Control Committed to preventing money laundering and establishing transparent financial transactions, Daewoo Securities enacted the bylaws on the anti-money laundering and prohibition against the financing Financial Irregularities & Corruption Reporting Center (Website) of terrorism under the Act on the Report on and the Use of Specific Financial Transaction Information. Daewoo Securities has installed a separate reporting center on its website, called the “Voice of CustomIt also applies the Transaction Monitoring System (TMS) as a risk-based consistent transaction-moniers.” Anyone who detects financial irregularities can report via this center. The subject of reporting shall toring program to detect illegal transactions by customers, review the risks, and record and report the include all information related to the financial irregularities in question, such as unfair transactions, results to the related authorities. leakage of financial information, manipulation of document accounting, embezzlement, malpractice, blackmail, or any other practice that can give rise to financial irregularity, bribery and entertainment, Customer Information Security System lending and borrowing between customer and employee, or other illegal behaviors. Daewoo Securities enacted the customer information protection bylaws, providing the basic guidelines for the effective protection and management of customer information. In addition, the company preMystery Shopping Program pared detailed guidelines on the maintenance of programs with access to customer information in order Daewoo Securities initiated its own undercover monitoring program called “Mystery Shopping” in 2009. to prevent leakage or the illegal use of customer information. No cases of complaints or violations reIn a bid to promote sound fund sales practices and to protect investor's value, the undercover agent garding customer information security or database management occurred during the reporting period. checks if employees abide by the solicitation rules in their day-to-day business activities and, when necessary, advises them to make proper corrections. The results of the check are reflected in the evaluCompliance Officer ations made by compliance officers. Detected breeches of ethical guidelines shall be subject to training Daewoo Securities assigns the general managers of each department and branch to be the compliance No. of Incidents of Corruption courses on preventing the incomplete selling of financial investment products. and Actions Taken officers. The compliance officers keep in check the legal and financial risks associated with the normal (Unit : cases) 9 12 5 course of business activities at the branch and department level. Each sales branch also has separate Internal Control Checklist compliance officers, who look for irregular customer transactions, assess the risk potential, record and Daewoo Securities regularly checks the internal control checklist as part of its company-wide internal report the results to external authorities. control system. Assigning detailed missions to each department, compliance at the departmental level is rigorously enforced. The checklist for sales branches checks practices by the branch manager, customer service team manager, and individual seller of derivatives daily, weekly and monthly. The departments at the back-office check their practices at each department daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 semi-annually and yearly. The checklist results are tracked and monitored on the computer system. interview I Jin-Sung Choi, Head of Part, Compliance Department interview As a financial investment company that offers financial products to customers, the ethical principles of its employees are particularly important to Daewoo Securities. Therefore, we regard anti-trust and transparent management standards not just as a mere legal compliance, but as a part of our corporate social responsibilities. In addition to the existing infrastructure, such as the company’s whistleblowing programs, which protect the rights of customers and their personal information, we monitor potential risks or irregularities at the department level through self-audit checklists. Maintaining a trust-based relationship with our customers is the key to the sustainable growth of our business, and we will make every effort to realize the highest standards of business ethics and transparency in our management. 030 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 031 Stakeholder Management Appendix Stakeholder Communication Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Survey Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Leadership Daewoo Securities ran extensive interviews and surveys with external and internal stakeholders at the The company interviewed and surveyed internal and external stakeholders as to their understanding of the pracStakeholder Communication Stakeholder Communication planning stage of this sustainability report. Through materiality tests of the findings from this research, tices of sustainability management from March to April of 2011. After researching the stakeholders by group: the key sustainability issues of greatest concern to its stakeholders are included in this report. Trustcustomers, shareholders/investors, employees, local communities, and environmental NGOs, an extensive Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Communication Channel based, long-term relationships with stakeholders play a key role in the sustainable growth of any busiStakeholder Communication Channel analysis of their expectations and major concerns regarding the company’s sustainability management pracStakeholder Engagement Process ness. Fully aware of this, Daewoo Securities is committed to maintaining a partnership based on mutual Stakeholder Engagement Process tices was made. Based on the findings, the results were presented, along with future plans for those issues Stakeholder Survey trust with its stakeholders. Stakeholder Survey related to their feedback in this report. Materiality Test Materiality Test Stakeholder Communication Channel Stakeholder Survey Results Daewoo Securities classifies its stakeholders into customers, shareholders/investors, employees, local communities, and environmental NGOs, based on their significance to and influence with the company, • Respondents : 1,580 persons from employees, customers, media, environmental NGOs, and local communities • Respondents : Daewoo Securities sustainability management practices and their interes and operates different communication channels for each of the groups. Each communication channel • Means : intranet, e-mail, regular mail, etc. keeps track of material issues and takes appropriate action, whenever necessary. • Evaluation : 1. Stakeholder communication / 2. Business ethics & transparency / 3. Sustainability management activities and performance Daewoo Securities Stakeholder Communication Channels Customer LOCAL COMMUNITIES 01 02 Customer Customer call center Social contributions IR roadshow Community engagement Does Daewoo Securities communicate well with Is Daewoo Securities an ethical company that Contracts, Products, CS center Addressing its stakeholders? practices transparent management? Profits Returns community needs About 50% of respondents answered affirmatively About 31% of respondents answered affirmatively to Coo ity Local pera Equ ent SHAREHOLDERS Environmental NGO to the question. The company will continue to reflect the question, while 58% had no opinion. Fully aware tion stm Shareholders/ communities inve Investors General shareholders’ Volunteer corps stakeholder opinions gathered through diverse comthat transparency is integral to sustainability manCoo on meeting Cooperation with munication channels in its reports and management agement, the company will step up efforts to mainpera Daewoo urn Ret tment Management disclosure environmental NGO tion inve s decisions. tain sound and transparent corporate governance and Securities IR briefing Forums IR contact management activities. lue co op r, Va n tio erabo tio n La crea EMPLOYEES co op ytio eraplo t, n Em en s m ge In-house journal Positive 50.4% Positive 31.3% Environmental Wa In-house infrastructure Employees Answer Neutral 40.9% Answer Neutral 58.3% NGO Labor union Negative 8.7% Negative 10.4% Stakeholder Engagement Process Daewoo Securities has put in place regular communication channels with its stakeholders. Findings 03 Is Daewoo Securities is a sustainable company which cares about environmental and social issues? from these interactions are used and reflected in identifying key sustainability issues, and developing and implementing responsive actions, when needed. In addition, the monitoring of the performance A large number of external stakeholders answered affirmatively to the question. According to the findings, they results is reported in the sustainability reports for greater transparency with stakeholders. appreciated the company's consistently sound economic performances and community engagement activities. However, they advised the company to continuously develop future growth engines and take the initiative in green finance, as well as to take a more positive response to social issues. Among internal stakeholders, 42% of respondStakeholder Engagement Process ents answered affirmatively to the question, while 38% held no opinion, showing a need for more engagement. Based on these results, Daewoo Securities understands the current status of its sustainability management practices and will apply what is required to better address the major issues needing improvement. Grouping Major Stakeholders Planning Sustainability Management Strategies Stakeholder Communication Monitoring Activities and External Positive 84% InternaL Positive 42% Performance Stakeholders Neutral 13% Stakeholders Neutral 38% Identifying Key Sustainability Issues Answer Answer Negative 3% Negative 20% Publishing the Sustainability Materiality Test Report 032 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 033 Stakeholder Management Appendix Stakeholder Communication Stakeholders’ Satisfaction with Daewoo Securities’ Sustainability Management Materiality Test Sustainability Leadership Sustainability Leadership The materiality test took place from both the stakeholders’ and the company’s point of views. Through Stakeholder Communication Stakeholder Communication stakeholder surveys and interviews, a review of internal policies, peer benchmarking and media analType ysis, and analysis of international sustainability standards such the GRI and DJSI, the impact of key Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Communication Channel Stakeholder Communication Channel sustainability issues on the company and the stakeholder’s concerns on key sustainability issues were Stakeholder Engagement Process Good (%) External Stakeholders Insufficient (%) Stakeholder Engagement Process prioritized. Stakeholder Survey Stakeholder Survey Materiality Test Materiality Test Developing future growth Materiality Test Process Creating economic value engines Economic Responsibility 79.0 points 33% 32% Finalizing Identifying issues Prioritizing issues Materiality test reporting content Clear understanding of Promoting environmental and timely response to responsibility Environmental Media Analysis customer demands Responsibility Stakeholder Economic Responsibility 46.8 points interviews / surveys Impact on the company Materiality Issues Analysis Classifying Group and 44% 42% Best practice benchmarking Concern to stakeholders Finalizing Issues Level Issues by Significance 79.0 63.0 Management Strategies Analysis Company-wide strategic Proactively addressing social contribution Social social issues Responsibility 80.3 points 30% 44% External Internal Stakeholders Stakeholders Daewoo Securities Key Sustainability Issues ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Type 46.8 57.1 Internal Stakeholders Good (%) Insufficient (%) Low Medium High Stakeholders Key Sustainability Issues Enhancing customer satisfaction management Developing future growth Customers Creating economic value Tailored customer relationship management engines Stakeholders’ Point of View Economic Responsibility Continued generation of economic performance 63.0 points Investors External Internal 50% 30% Stakeholders Stakeholders Fair distribution of created value Retaining and fostering talent Employees Promoting environmental Providing eco-friendly Promoting trust-based communication responsibility Environmental financial products Social Responsibility Responsibility Local Engaging in community engagement programs 57.1 points 34% 30% Communities Proactively addressing social issues 80.3 61.8 Environment Providing eco-friendly financial products Company-wide strategic Clear understanding of and Sustainable Establishing transparent corporate governance social contributions Social timely response to customer Infrastructure Responsibility 61.8 points Current or potential impact 44% 26% External Internal • High Gruop : Issues of high concern to both the company and its stakeholders, requiring immediate counteraction Stakeholders Stakeholders in appropriate manner • Medium Gruop : Issues of significant concerns in a perspective, requiring continued addressing • Low Gruop : Issues of relatively low importance or less 034 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 035 Stakeholder Management Appendix Stakeholders interview Daewoo Securities maintains various communication channels with its stakeholders in order to reflect their opinions in its management decisions. Unlike previous reports, this report was compiled based on the findings of stakeholder surveys, interviews, and materiality tests, strengthening the stakeholder’s engagement in the process. Stakeholders Stakeholders interview interview Stakeholders Stakeholders InterviewInterview (7Persons) (7Persons) • • 1 Local ICommunity 1 Local Community Seong-JungI Park, Secretary Seong-Jung Park, General Secretary General of the Community of theChest Community of Korea Chest of Korea 2 Shareholder2 Shareholder I Jin-Woo Hong,I Jin-Woo KDB Financial Hong, DB Group’s Financial Synergy Group’s Team Synergy Team Chang-Hui IKim, 3 Employees3 IEmployees Chang-Hui StrategyKim, Strategy Planning Office Planning ManagerOffice Manager of Korea Financial of Korea Trade Financial Union Trade Union 4 Shareholder4 Shareholder I Ki-Hwan Eun, I Ki-Hwan ManagerEun,of Himanager Asset Management of Hi Asset Management 5 Environmental 5 Environmental NGO I Young-JinNGO Park, I Young-Jin of UNICEF DirectorPark, Director Korea of UNICEF Committee Korea Committee 6 Customer 6 I Customer Pyeong-Kyun I Pyeong-Kyun Jeong, Jeong, business ownerbusiness and client owner and client of the Euijeongbu of thebranch branch of Daewoo Euijeongbu Securities of Daewoo Securities 7 Local ICommunity 7 Local Community Hyun-Sook ILee, Hyun-Sook DirectorLee, Director of Hanvit Social of Hanvit Welfare Social Center Welfare Center Daewoo Securities maintains various communication channels Shareholder Jin-Woo Hong, with its stakeholders in order to reflect their opinions in its KDB Financial Group’s Synergy Team management decisions. What do you think of Daewoo Securities and its sustainability 2 management practices? Stakeholders Proud to be the Heart of the Company's Synergies interview • The launch of the KDB Financial Group in September of 2009 raised Daewoo Securities to the next level: from a leading securities firm to the flagship company of a leading financial group. Leveraging on its world-class competencies, Daewoo Securities has developed the potential for sustainable growth. Due not only its unrivaled marketing competencies which generate industry-leading financial results, but also its globally competent talent management, advanced work system, and 1 passionate corporate culture that the company has been able to succeed despite challenges and hardships it had stood up to over the past forty years. Stakeholders It is now time for the company to create new synergies, as a member of the KDB Financial Group. interview By interacting with peer subsidiaries and generating synergies by the crossing their respective expertise, we can now make concerted effort to develop complete financial services and products, as well make a concerted approach towards activities that increase customer satisfaction. At the The Joy of Promoting a Better World for All center of this integration and synergy creation is Daewoo Securities, which will play the pivotal role in the achievement of sustainable growth for the group. • Daewoo Securities engages the underprivileged through tangibly beneficial programs, such as free groceries for people in low-income brackets and programs for the elderly, migrants, low-income brackets, disabled, and children. Made apparent by the fact that Daewoo Securities was the first Korean securities firm to publish a sustainability report, the company sets the standard for corporate social responsibility through its various programs, through its volunteer corps, and various Employees other organized volunteer activities, all based on a long-term relationship with the local communiChang-Hui Kim, ties they benefit. Strategy Planning Office Manager of Korea Financial The number of corporate social responsibility programs by Korean companies have increased over Trade Union the past several years, but Daewoo Securities is now expanding its role as it departs from simple donations to more advanced forms of social contribution. CSR has become an integral part of its business activities and a strategy for future growth. Daewoo Securities has set a model for employ3 Stakeholders Stakeholders interview ees’ spirit of volunteerism and community engagement. I expect that it will soon lend its business acumen to plan more practical social contribution programs. A Great Workplace that Respects Human Rights interview If the Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report can cover the changes that its social contributions • have made to the lives in the communities where it has worked, it would further enhance the reI meet a lot of people from many different companies in my job. The Daewoo Securities people porting content. I hope this report reflects well upon the leadership of the company and its sustainwhom I have met over the past ten years have been enterprising and committed to their jobs. I ability initiatives. believe this to be the case due to the company’s people-oriented business philosophy which encompasses its dedication to be a market leader, its distinct talent management principles, its training Stakeholders Interview (7Persons) programs, and its and corporate culture that seeks to create mutual financial benefit. • In particular, Daewoo Securities has demonstrated a revolutionary approach to the labor issues in 1 Local Community I Seong-Jung Park, Secretary General order to address conflicts of interest, such as job creation and conversion of temporary workers to of the Community Chest of Korea regular employees. Departing from the cost-efficient approach, Daewoo Securities places a priority 2 Shareholder I Jin-Woo Hong, KDB Financial Group’s Synergy Team on talent, through candid communication between the labor and management. 3 Employees I Chang-Hui Kim, Strategy Planning Office Manager Local Community Still, there is room to improve in the communication channels in the labor-management relationof Korea Financial Trade Union Seong-Jung Park, ship in order for the company to achieve sustainable development. It will be required to build a trust-based partnership with the labor union and to maintain active communication channels re4 Shareholder I Ki-Hwan Eun, Manager of Hi Asset Management Secretary General of the Community Chest of Korea sponsive to labor’s opinions and suggestions in order to better the company’s management prac5 Environmental NGO I Young-Jin Park, Director of UNICEF Korea Committee tices. Related, it is highly recommended that the company further enhance its interactive commu6 Customer I Pyeong-Kyun Jeong, business owner and client nication and liberal corporate culture within the organization. of the Euijeongbu branch of Daewoo Securities I believe Daewoo Securities can become a great workplace for its employees, in much the same way 7 Local Community I Hyun-Sook Lee, Director of Hanvit Social Welfare Center it has achieved industry-leading financial performance. At the same time, I hope the company will take the lead to establish socially responsible investment practices in the Korean capital markets. Customer Pyeong-Kyun Jeong, business owner and client of the Euijeongbu branch of Daewoo Securities Daewoo Securities maintains various communication channels 6 with its stakeholders in order to reflect their opinions in its My Lifelong Partner, Daewoo Securities Stakeholders management decisions. • interview For over three decades, I have engaged Daewoo Securities in trusted transactions. During that What do you think of Daewoo Securities and its sustainability time, I have met with six managers. I have remained loyal to the same company for that long period management practices? because I was particularly fond of the open-minded and customer-oriented attitude of Daewoo Securities’ people. That trust has led my children to also become regular clients of Daewoo Securities. Living up to its reputation as the industry leader, Daewoo Securities offers me a wide array of financial investment vehicles and customized services, as well as up-to-date financial management systems. Most importantly, the human network that goes beyond the customer-company relationship is the key to the success that Daewoo Securities now enjoys. I know that Daewoo Securities aims to become Asia’s leading financial institution. To that end, I think it is important that the 4 company cultivates open-minded employees who are ready to be responsive and engaged with their customers, to continue to live up to its unique customer satisfaction services. I also recommend Environmental NGO the company further expand the number of customer contact points. Although online trading has Stakeholders Young-Jin Park, become the norm for the stock-trade, rather than transacting through clerks sitting at branches, interview Director of UNICEF Korea Committee this has isolated investors from the vast pool of available information networking. If Daewoo Securities fills this niche and increases the points of human contact, where customers can sit down with experts for consultation, it will set the company apart from its competitors. The unique advantage A Company with a Promising, Sustainable Future 5 to working with Daewoo Securities is its people, which will play the key role in solidifying the market • confidence in the company. If you ask me which the most enterprising and passionate securities firm is, I would unhesitatingly Stakeholders interview name Daewoo Securities. It is not only because of its industry-leading financial performance, but also because of its intangible assets: the dedication and passion of its employees, the creative corporate culture, and its solid foundation for sustainable growth. Still, there is always room to improve. I expect that Daewoo Securities has the underlying power Passing Down a Clean Planet to the Next Generation Local Community to achieve further growth, and I see a promising future due to the company’s present level of pre• Hyun-Sook Lee, paredness. It will be equally important to fairly distribute value currently generated as it will be to In October of 2010, I was present when UNICEF and Daewoo Securities initiated the “Dirty Water Director of Hanvit Social Welfare Center create further innovative value through innovative products and services. Closely connected by variDrive.” Coordinated by Daewoo Securities as part of its environmental initiative and UNICEF, the 7 ous interests, any economic imbalance would lead to rifts in the overall balance of the company’s event triggered an instant sensation among the public when it was announced through online mefundamental structure. And that’s the last thing we would ever want to see in our company. dia sources, and rapidly gained traction through word of mouth sources such as blogs and twitter Through the insightful analysis and future direction taken, in regard to the securities business and feeds. The buzz it generated brought a citizen a long way to to buy a bottle of dirty water from the Interactive Community Programs Stakeholders capital market issues, Daewoo Securities will be a pioneer in providing Korean financial success. vending machine in order to teach her children the importance of the environment and the hunger • interview that children from all corners of the world suffer. It was in 2009 that I first encountered with Daewoo Securities, at a “Stepping Stones Festival” for Many companies lay claim to corporate social responsibility through various social contribution North Korean refugees. Daewoo Securities was responsible for helping the refugees settle down in programs. Most of them, however, are only self-promotions or one-time events, having little impact South Korea and allowing their children to catch up in their new academic environment. In the time or making lasting change for the beneficiaries. However, Daewoo Securities takes a far-sighted apsince, the company has expanded the scope of its sponsorship to supporting the underprivileged in proach to awaken the public to the significance of environmental stewardship and social contribulocal communities and to providing equal opportunities in educational access for underprivileged tion, as well as allowing them to have meaningful participation in the campaigns. This was a model children. campaign for corporate social responsibility. I was impressed with the company’s “Interactive Community Programs” and soon discovered that Shareholder Furthermore, the company is engaged in programs that promote “Multi-Cultural Family Support” Daewoo Securities takes a different approach to the support it provides. It first listens to the benefiKi-Hwan Eun, ciary charities and listens to what the people they benefit really need before taking action to provide Manager of Hi Asset Management and “Equal Education for Underprivileged Youth.” I hope the company can develop many more representative social contribution programs that further motivate the company towards sustainable a helping hand. Consequently, the satisfaction among its beneficiaries is very high. In addition, the growth through social contributions. In proportion to the growth of the company as a global leader, company invites the financially-distressed to various cultural events and on theme park outings. I hope that Daewoo Securities expands the scope of its social contributions on a global front. I will Departing from one-time event sponsorship or just volunteering for a few hours, Daewoo Securities be happy to observe Daewoo Securities as it grows as a global leader that cares for the societies is prepared to have meaningful interactions with the communities it supports. it supports. In the future, I recommend that Daewoo Securities analyze the performance and results of its social contributions while simultaneously identifying new social welfare issues through proactive communication with the communities it supports. By diversifying its community programs, the company will be able to realize greater achievements through its social contributions activities. 036 037 03 Stakeholder Management Stakeholder Management At Daewoo Securities, we classify our stakeholders into customers, shareholders & investors, employees, local communities, and environmental NGOs and maintain communication channels with each. 038 039 Trust Management “A Trusted Wealth Management Partner, Daewoo Securities” As a trusted wealth management partner, Daewoo Securities provides premium services and product portfolios to maximize customer assets and engages in customer marketing processes to enhance satisfaction. “Hey Passion, Wake up” The “Passion Week” promotion rejuvenated the corporate image of Daewoo Securities revealing a young and dynamic organization. Its slogan, “Hey Passion, Wake up” unleashed a dedicated, passionate response from Daewoo Securities. Our Approach & Principle Customers constitute the foundation and the destination for Daewoo Securities. Daewoo Securities offers differentiated value through its customer satisfaction management, while actively reflecting customer opinion in its management activities, through advanced customer monitoring systems. Key Performance Daewoo Securities performs various evaluation processes to continue to improve upon its customer relations and enhance customer value. Since 2008, new customers’ satisfaction survey results have continued to show progress. The overall satisfaction score was 98.1 points in 2010, up 2.4 points from 2008. We will continue to upgrade our customer satisfaction management system through constant CS monitoring. 040 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 041 Stakeholder Management Appendix Trust Management Customer Satisfaction Contact Points Stakeholder Management Stakeholder Management At Daewoo Securities, customer satisfaction is of top priority. Therefore, the company cultivates a Trust management Trust management • Head Office(+82-2-768-3355) customer-oriented mindset in its employees. Checking the quality of customer service using quarterly • Postcard provided • Customer Service Center at each of Daewoo • HTS and website self-monitoring, the Customer Marketing Department uses the findings to enhance the quality of its Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction (+82-1588-3322) Securities sales branches Customer Marketing Activities customer service. Customer Marketing Activities Communication Channels Work Process Customers of Daewoo Securities can give their feedback via the sales branch, customer service center, Type Process Duration its website, and the home trading system (HTS). The received feedback undergoes exhaustive review and analysis in search of the best solution, and is recorded for reflection in future business activities. 1 Reception at the center → 2 Notification sent to departments Immediate related to the issue → 3 Processed at center → (3 4 days) Customer Feedback Flowchart Praise 4 Feedback / Rewards 1 Reception at the center (guide on how to use the services) → Classification Receiving Within two of feedback department/ Details of feedback Response 2 Collection → 3 Consulting with customer service improvement media weeks Suggestions council → 4 Feedback Financial Supervisory Service, Korea Outside Consumer Protection 1 First reception at the center → 2 Delivered to related department Board, etc. Immediate for answers → 3 Handled at the center (secondary (1 2 days) Compliance office, Prompt handling Complaints reception when necessary) → 4 Feedback Compliance audit department Complaints Handling of suggestions Whistleblowing at the related department Sales branches 1 Reception at the center (mis-reception) → 2 Compensation to Voice of Customers Handling of grievances 2 days at the related department related department → 3 Insurance care at the center level → Customer service Website Compliance & complaints (3 5 days) Department center Customers’ suggestions Compensation 4 Feedback Review by related department Headquarters Grievances departments Case studies Website 2008-2010 CS Monitoring Evaluation CS Performance Results Media HTS Daewoo Securities operates a variety of communication channels and programs for systematic customer satisPhone/post (Unit: Points) 92.7 94.4 97.1 faction activities. Departing from one-time public relations events or customer satisfaction surveys, the company (Unit: Points) 82.8 86.6 91.3 consistently collects customer opinions through active CS Monitoring and CS consulting at sales branches, and CS monitoring, CS education, (Unit: Points) 87.8 90.5 94.2 In-house Systems customer satisfaction survey, etc. Feedback & review uses the findings to realize customer satisfaction. As a result, there were no cases of violations or sanctions regarding its CS activities during the reporting period. Voice of Customers (VOC) Category Descriptions Daewoo Securities operates the “Voice of Customers (VOC)” program to reflect customers’ opinions in its busi• Customer satisfaction survey to capture customer needs and Customer Satisfaction Survey ness activities. Received through various channels, the Voices of Customers are delivered to the departments make proper corrections to inconveniences FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 and executives of immediate relevance, and are then used to better the company’s customer service. The VOCs CS Monitoring • Regular monitoring by phone calls and visits to sales branches are shared not only within the Customer Service Center, but also across the company on a daily, weekly and Phone call Visit Total • Collecting voice of customers via various media and striving VOC monthly basis. Upon reception, via the Customer Service Center, the VOC are posted on the intranet for review * Unit: points, on a scale of 100 points to find solutions by all employees. Excerpts of important issues are compiled into the Customer Daily Report for the executives, Research on the CS index • Developing CS indexes for application at the branch level as well as the CEO, and are then used to enhance the quality of customer service. of competitors of competitors • Building customer relationships with small-sized corporations, CS support at sales branches community credit cooperatives, and supporting aggressive marketing (in-house CS lecturer) • Internalizing CS within the corporate culture and providing CS Manager pinpointing service (customized special lectures provided twice a year) • Providing systematic CS trainings by identifying the chronic CS consulting for sales branches CS issues and the appropriate responsive action 042 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 043 Stakeholder Management Appendix Trust Management New Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer Marketing Activities Stakeholder Management Stakeholder Management Daewoo Securities checks its new customers’ CS level. This immediate, round-the-clock observation Daewoo Securities conducts seminars on asset management, customer promotion activities, cultural, Trust management Trust management serves to keep the sales branches vigilant to their customer service practices. While making proper and sporting events as a means of increasing customer loyalty and building upon its customer relationcorrections immediately upon receiving customer complaints, the results are also reflected in their CS ship. Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Customer Marketing Activities evaluation. According to the new customer satisfaction survey results, the scores continued to improve Customer Marketing Activities with the customer satisfaction level increasing accordingly, while complaints decreased. Financial Investment Solutions New Customer Satisfaction Survey Daewoo Securities holds seminars to provide customers with quality investment information services New Customer Satisfaction Survey and investment solutions with investment strategies, in response to market trends. 95.7 96.3 98.1 Type FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 2 1 0 Seminars by Type Satisfaction 95.7 96.3 98.1 No. of branches scoring under 90 points 2 1 0 Type Descriptions VVIP Investment Strategy Seminars Suggesting investment strategies for VVIP customers Asset management seminars by branches Each branch suggests investment strategies to customers FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Providing solutions to customers who needs PB consulting PB consulting seminars (portfolio, taxation, real estate, etc.) Satisfaction No. of branches scoring under 90 points • 2011 Stock Market Forum 044 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 045 Stakeholder Management Appendix Trust Management Customer-Oriented Promotion Cultural & Sports Events for Customers Stakeholder Management Trust management Customer Satisfaction Customer Marketing Activities 1 2 1 2 4 • Vitamin Passion Promotion • Social Commerce Affiliate Marketing • Held a Concert for Youth Daewoo Securities held a unique promotional event, Daewoo Securities ran a “passion week” promotional Daewoo Securities invited 600 young customers and where it gave away ten vitamin tablets, the symbol event in collaboration with a Korean social com60 couples selected from its employees to Korean of passion, in gold bar-shaped cases. Distributed merce site “WeMakePrice,” selling five products repop star, Lee Seung-Cheol’s, concert. Installing its at each branch concurrently with the launch of new lated to passion through the “WeMakePrice” website own information booth outside the concert venue, the products, the gold bar-shaped cases represent the for a week. Among the products offered, Bentz was company received its invitees and offered them soucompany’s determination to enhance customer valsold out in only 44 seconds. While the other securivenirs, while running company commercials on the ue. ties firms are bent on operating their own Twitter and front of the information booth and within the concert Facebook pages, Daewoo Securities handily generhall, where about 50,000 members of the audience ated buzz through an alternative, sensational promo5 could see them. tional method. 3 4 5 • Organizing the Israel Philharmonic & • Daewoo Securities Held KLPGA Golf interview I Young-Ju Lee, Assistant Manager, Customer Marketing Department Zubin Mehta Concert 3 Tournament Celebrating its 40th anniversary, Daewoo Securities In celebration of its 40th anniversary, the company organized the Israel Philharmonic and Zubin Mehta held the “Daewoo Securities Classic 2010 Golf Tourconcert for its VIP customers. The event served to nament,” also enhancing customer satisfaction. As interview raise customer satisfaction in the company while part of its commitment to social contribution, Daeraising its image as a culture leader. It also raised the woo Securities offered 400 80kg-weighted sacks of brand value of the company as a title sponsor with At Daewoo Securities, customer satisfaction is at the top of our priority list. Customer satisfaction builds trust, rice for a hole-in-one on no. 12, to be donated under driving the engine that will propel us forward towards sustainable growth. Departing from one-time events, we the world-renowned artists. the name of the hole-in-one player to UNICEF. In the have been pursuing the development of practical programs that best reflect customer needs. Consequently, cusevent that no hole-in-one was shot, the company dotomer satisfaction survey results have trended upward for the past several years. Committed to customer satisfacnated 100 sacks of rice to UNICEF. tion, everyone at Daewoo Securities will strive to build trust-based relationships with their customers. 046 047 Value Management “Generating Transparent and Sound Economic Performance” “Generating Transparent and Sound Economic Performance” Daewoo Securities strives to achieve transparent and sound economic performance by providing differentiated value. Equal distribution of the created value to its stakeholders will further propel the company towards greater development. At all times, active communication channels are maintained with shareholders and investors on all management activities. “All for One, One for All” On October 28th, 2009, the KDB Financial Group was launched. The six group affiliates bring their respective expertise and capabilities to form a powerful alliance able to leave an impact on the financial landscape. A twig may snap easily, but bundled together they can withstand great forces. The six members of KDB Financial Group— Daewoo Securities, KDB, KDB Asset Management, KDB Capital and Korea Infrastructure Investments Asset Management— are “All for one.” Our Approach & Principle Shareholders and investors own Daewoo Securities. Active communication channels are maintained with them through various management disclosures and IR activities. Sound performance will be maintained through ceaseless management innovation in order to secure future growth engines. Key Performance Daewoo Securities has maintained balanced growth across all business areas and achieved a diversified revenue structure. As a result, it recorded KRW 319.1 billion in net income during 2009 and KRW 256.2 billion for 2010, an industry leading revenue stream that proves its market stature as Korea’s leading financial investment company. 048 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 049 Stakeholder Management Appendix Value Management Major Economic Value Creation Credit Ratings Stakeholder Management Stakeholder Management Daewoo Securities has been the market leader in the brokerage business for the past seven years. The Daewoo Securities has maintained one of the best credit ratings in the industry. In May 2010, its credit Value Management Value Management AUM and profitability in its wealth management business also continue to grow upon the groundwork it ratings were upgraded to AA (positive) for its stable profitability and sound financial structure. In Janulaid previously. An increasing number of highly profitable IPO deals and right offerings, among others, ary 2011, Daewoo Securities achieved its first credit ratings to Baa2 (stable) from Moody's. Major Economic Value Creation Major Economic Value Creation Operating Size contributed to overall growth in the IB business. Market leadership in the sales and trading business is Operating Size Credit Ratings growing, based on unrivaled competencies in trading fixed-incomes and derivatives. Since 2009 backed Credit Ratings Korean Credit Ratings Agency AA Stakeholder Distributions by balanced growth in all of these business areas, the company has achieved the top performances in Stakeholder Distributions AA (Positive) Shareholder/ Investor Communications the industry for two years in a row. Shareholder/ Investor Communications AA(Stable) (Unit : KRW in billions) A+ A FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 ABBB Operating Revenue 4,445.1 4,591.9 3,524.4 BB Operating Income 203.8 412.0 332.6 CCC+ Net Income 180.5 319.1 256.2 ROE 7.25% 11.94% 8.96% Aug. 99 Jun. 00 Apr. 02 Nov. 04 Dec. 05 May. 06 Jun. 06 Sep. 07 May. 10 SG&A 478.3 593.8 638.7 * Korea Investors Services and Korea Ratings Global Credit Ratings Agency Stabil ity S&P FITCH Moody's Total Assets Total Liabilities Total Shareholders’ Equity AAA AAA Aaa (Unit : KRW trillion) (Unit : KRW trillion) (Unit : KRW trillion) AA+ AA+ Aa1 14.2 17.5 17.9 11.7 14.6 15.2 2.5 2.9 2.9 AA AA Aa2 AAAAAa3 Positive Positive Positive A+ A+ A1 A A A2 AAA3 BBB+ BBB+ Baa1 BBB BBB Baa2 BBBBBBBaa3 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 BB+ BB+ Ba1 Negative Negative Negative BB BB Ba2 BBBBBa3 Growth • Operating Revenue Net Income ROE (Unit : KRW trillion) (Unit : KRW in billions) (Unit : %) Trading Center 4.4 4.5 2.7 180.5 319.1 193.5 7.25 11.94 8.96 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Operating Size Daewoo Securities manages the largest amount of assets in the industry— a total of KRW 17.9 trillion in total assets, KRW 2.9 trillion in total shareholders’ equity, and KRW 90.7 trillion in customer assets under management (AUM). (Unit : KRW trillion) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Total Shareholders’ Equity 2.5 2.9 2.9 Total Assets 14.2 17.5 17.9 Customer Base (persons) 2,090,139 1,607,753 2,082,512 Asset Base 27.9 39.7 45.1 AUM 58.9 81.5 90.7 050 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 051 Stakeholder Management Appendix Value Management Stakeholder Distributions Shareholder/ Investor Communications Stakeholder Management Stakeholder Management Daewoo Securities recorded an operating revenue of KRW 4,592 billion in 2009, and KRW 3,524 billion Value Management Value Management in 2010. Its net income before tax, reached an industry leading KRW 319 billion in 2009 and KRW 256 Enhancing Transparency billion in 2010. The company ensures that the profit generated is fairly distributed to its stakeholders, Major Economic Value Creation Major Economic Value Creation including the government, shareholders, employees, customers, and communities. In the future, it will Daewoo Securities disclosed its management information 47 times in 2009 and 81 times in 2010. During the reOperating Size Operating Size continue to increase its value for its stakeholders by striving to achieve sustainable growth and further porting period, the company has maintained transparent disclosure activities without a single instance of breachCredit Ratings Credit Ratings Stakeholder Distributions development. Stakeholder Distributions ing of fair disclosure. Shareholder/ Investor Communications Shareholder/ Investor Communications Distribution to Stakeholders (as of FY2010) Shareholders/Investors Relations Management Investor relations (IR) have evolved from offhand disclosures of management information into robust, interactive communication between the company, its shareholders and investors to more capably share the goal of enhancing corporate value. Daewoo Securities has maintained consistent IR activities to share its vision and goals on sustainability issues, as well as general management issues with its shareholders and investors. In addition to IR meetings for institutional investors and analysts, the company participates in various investor roadshows and conferences to further expand the scope and frequency of its contact with investors and shareholders. Wages & Community FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Welfare Benefits Investments No.Disclosures 55 47 81 KRW 341.0 billion IR meetings 138 125 152 KRW 3.7 billion Conferences Domestic 3 / International 2 Domestic 4 / International 3 Domestic 7 / International 5 Supporting Indonesia’s Financial Development • Daewoo Securities is the second largest shareholder in Indonesia’s largest online brokerage house, E-Trading Securities, holding 38.35% shares in the company. Despite the high growth potential of the Indonesian capital markets, the country’s shallow capital and Taxation Interests history hindered the development of the local markets. Without question that the local market was in need of an advanced financial system and experienced business know-how. With that in mind, since 2007, Daewoo Securities has shared IT and business know-how to KRW 133.8 billion KRW 226.7 billion E-Trading Securities, helping them construct the infrastructure necessary to become the Indonesian market leader. Interview I Sung-Choon Ryoo, Managing Director(CFO), Head of Business Management Unit Operating Revenue Dividends KRW 3,524.4 billion KRW 79.5 billion interview Daewoo Securities has sustained balanced growth in each of its business areas, which allowed it to achieve industry-leading operation results from 2009 to 2010, and solidify its market dominance as Korea’s top financial investment company. Recognized for such, it received the gold prize in the securities industry category of Korea’s renowned “Dasan Financial Awards,” in 2010. Its participation in the G-20 Business Summit as Korea’s financial investment business representative attests to its current market position in the Korean financial industry. These stellar achievements would not have been possible without the trust we have earned from our shareholders and investors. We are keenly aware that the mutual trust between a company and its shareholders and investors is essential to the respect and sustainable development of the company. In the future, Daewoo Securities will maintain active communication channels with its stakeholders in a timely and transparent manner. This will provide the foundation for transparent corporate governance and further reinforce the trust-based relationship with shareholders and investors. 052 053 Talent Management “A Global financial leader that creatively embraces challenges” Daewoo Securities People embrace challenges with global standard competences. Growing despite fierce competition, they empower innovation and face down challenges. “Creating a Healthy atmosphere” We are building a healthier atmosphere for everyone. We built a fitness center at the workplace and mounted a smoking cessation campaign to promote a healthier lifestyle for our employees. Customized career development programs have been designed to help employees realize their full potential. Our Approach & Principle Employees are the core asset of Daewoo Securities. Daewoo Securities focuses on retaining and fostering globally competent financial leaders who are able to creatively embrace challenges. Key Performance As of 2010, employment of minority groups (women, the disabled and the National Meritorious People) accounts for 44%, or 1,440 out of a workforce of 3,247 and the figure continues to grow. Committed to workplace diversity, Daewoo Securities has developed an employee management system to ensure fair and transparent opportunities for all. 054 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 055 Stakeholder Management Appendix Talent Management Workforce Cultivating Global Competencies in Employees Stakeholder Management Daewoo Securities' workforce must represent the most advanced financial business competencies to Stakeholder Management In our quest to become Asia’s leading global IB house, competent people are the key factor to achieve Talent Management stay in its top-tier position. Therefore, Daewoo Securities operates advanced human resources manTalent Management sustainable growth in the fast-changing financial markets. With this in mind, the company designed a new agement and development programs to help its employees build up their competences. Employing inHRD program to embrace the changed market environment in 2011. With a focus on fostering financial Workforce Workforce novative, creative talent, the company strives to provide fair and exceptional opportunities to all its leaders among employees, the company has established an advanced HRD system that will cultivate leadCultivating Global Competencies Cultivating Global Competencies in Employees employees. in Employees ership, reinforce expertise, propagate the company’s core values, and facilitate in-house lectures. Fair Human Resources Management Fair Human Resources Management Employee Communication Workforce Employee Communication Welfare Programs Daewoo Securities’ total workforce stands at 3,247 people as of the end of 2010. Of this, 2,542 are Welfare Programs Daewoo Securities Talent Labor-Management Relations regular staff and 705 are temporary or permanent contract-based employees; approximately 21.8% Labor-Management Relations Daewoo Securities’ Talent are “Global financial leaders who put customer value before everything, posof the total workforce. In a bid to boost the morale of its employees, the company continues to convert sesses the dignity and competencies of global leaders, and creatively embrace challenges.” contract-based employees to regular employees. (Unit : Persons) 2008 2009 2010 Daewoo Securities Talent Total workforce 3,192 3,226 3,247 Type of Regular 2,164 2,418 2,542 • Customer Orientation • Honor & Pride • Creative Challenge • Professionalism employment Temporary 1,028 808 705 Daewoo Securities Principles Diversity in the Employment At Daewoo Securities female workers account for 39.5% of the total workforce and the number is on the Human Resources Development Evaluation/Compensation Internalizing Core Values rise. In proactively seeking diversity among its workforce, the company works to increase opportunities for the disabled, international employees, and National Meritorious People. Career Development Programs (CDP) Performance / Capability-based Customer-Oriented (Unit : Persons) Coaching for Success Encouraging Creative Enterprising Spirit Global Manner 2008 2009 2010 Female 1,170 1,223 1,284 Daewoo Securities’ principles consist of human resources development, evaluation/compensation, and core values. Disabled 21 50 56 National Meritorious Persons 64 64 70 International 20 24 30 Human Resources Development (HRD) Policy * International: the company employees of foreign nationalities. Local Employment The HRD policy of Daewoo Securities works to cultivate capabilities by providing holistic solutions in Local Employment employees development, in order to better provide reliable, quality asset management services. The (Unit : Persons) 23 27 33 To secure competent workers, well acquainted with local communities, Daewoo Securities makes it a HRD scheme applies different policies to each job position and ensures that its expert courses focus (Unit : Persons) 11 17 22 principle to employ local talent. The company continues to increase the number of locally hired managon fostering competent staff members in the areas of retail financing, investment banking, and asset ers as well. management. Turnover Rate As of 2010, the turnover rate for Daewoo Securities’ workforce stood at 11.08%, relatively high comProfessional Curriculum pared to that of other industries. Given the typically high turnover rate of the knowledge-based industry in general however, this figure is not particularly high. Nevertheless, the company makes strenuous FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 • The Daewoo Securities Academy is home to future financial leaders of the Korean securities business. New emefforts to retain talent by offering various career and welfare benefits. ployees receive a primer course that helps them acquire a general background knowledge of the brokerage business No. of locally hired staff and the competencies to autonomously fulfill their duties until they are promoted to assistant manager level. The No. of locally hired managers 2008 2009 2010 “Expert Course” is for senior staff to upgrade their job competencies, assisting employees with self-directed career *Locally-hired; employees locally hired for regional Turnover Rate No. of Separation Turnover Rate No. of Separation Turnover Rate No. of Separation and overseas operations. development planning. Male 10.58% 214 6.50% 130 12.43% 244 Gender Female 9.66% 113 4.25% 52 7.48% 96 20s 10.23% 111 4.36% 42 4.70% 43 Age 30s 12.02% 149 6.75% 85 9.61% 122 40s 7.45% 54 5.16% 41 13.50% 113 Over 50s 9.15% 13 6.73% 14 27.3% 62 Companywide 10.24% 327 5.64% 182 11.08% 340 056 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 057 Stakeholder Management Appendix Talent Management Human Resources Development Programs Fair Human Resources Management Stakeholder Management Daewoo Securities has recently developed new HRD programs to foster “leading global financial exStakeholder Management Daewoo Securities grades the accomplishments and competencies of individual employees based on Talent Management Talent Management perts” to flexibly respond to the fast-changing financial markets. The new program articulates the criteria that review innovation, customer-oriented interactions, compliance with legal and ethical redetails of a competency-building roadmap, customized to different job duties and positions. The selfquirements, expertise, and teamwork. Their feedback is cross-checked against individual performance Workforce Workforce directed learning programs offer segmented curricula for each of different areas, broken down into to ensure fairness and objectivity in the evaluation and management of personal accomplishments. ExCultivating Global Competencies Cultivating Global Competencies Leadership, Professionalism, Insight, and Faculty. ecutives, managers, and team leaders are subject to upgraded evaluations of their leadership, internalization in Employees in Employees of corporate culture, and competencies and legal and ethical compliance, ensuring interactive commuFair Human Resources Management Fair Human Resources Management nication and career development at the managerial level, and improving the organizational discipline. Employee Communication Employee Communication Training Program Curriculum Welfare Programs Welfare Programs Equality and Diversity in the Workplace Labor-Management Relations Labor-Management Relations Leadership Professional Curriculum Insight Faculty Daewoo Securities advocates equal opportunities for promotion within its organization. The influence Curriculum Curriculum Curriculum Retail CIB Management Global on the human rights of employees is the first priority of consideration in all our personnel management decisions. In addition to non-discrimination management policies of personnel, regardless of their Executives leadership Expert Course Expert Course Expert Course gender, race or age, and the application of fair HRM policies, the company strives to enhance employee Branch manager satisfaction by actively taking into account personal circumstances. As a result, there were no cases of Global Experience Advanced course of CIB Synergies Manager marketing strategies discrimination or related disciplinary measures during the reporting period. As of end of 2010, the initial Global MBA Fostering in-house lecturers Advanced Branch manager Management leadership conference annual pay of a Daewoo Securities employee with bachelor’s degree amounted to KRW 38.08 million, Fostering facilitators Diploma course 377% higher than legal minimum wage, given to all employees on a pay scale that does not discriminate Case Study Regulation Case Study Coverage Biz. Skill against gender of employees. Manager leadership Job duty-related Stock investment Financial products Asset management Understanding CustomerGlobal Business Talent Training Sales Skill Primer course for experienced staff job duties of Basic external courses Female Managers ratio understanding Percentage of Female Workers Basic Salaries to those of Male Workers Newly-promoted leadership Team leader leadership other dept. Fostering future leaders Business competencies 36.65 37.91 39.54 One KDB Value (Unit : %) (Unit : %) 11.00 18.24 18.44 2008 2009 2010 Practical application CIB Case Competition Senior staff of Customer Service Team Staff 104.9 112.0 99.7 Daewoo Securities Expert Academy Manager Building job Management competences Compulsory course Advanced leadership (Coverage, Regulation) Chief 99.3 99.5 100.0 Advanced product Assistant Manager 98.3 101.0 100.3 Customer Service Team Basic course for securities experts Manager 95.2 98.1 97.1 Management Retail Orientation CIB Boot Camp Deputy General Manager 83.2 87.8 93.4 Orientation manager leadership Basic common course General Manager 94.5 97.2 90.2 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 New senior staff beginners’ course (orientation, professionalism) Female Employment Financial products + branch-level job duties OA + basic knowledge Female workers to total workforce ratio Daewoo Securities ensures fair opportunities regardless of gender when considering promotions. As of Female managers to total managers ratio the end of 2010, female managers accounted for 18.44% of the managerial staff within the company, up Beginner’s course for staff 67% from 2008. Conversion ratio International Employment Training Hours and & Courses HRD Performance Daewoo Securities does not discriminate based on nationality or disability, nor does it practice any dis(Unit : Person) 646 335 381 criminatory regulations or customs towards any minority group. Furthermore, the company is deter(Unit : Hour) 142 119 107 Daewoo Securities runs a variety of training courses for its regular staff. Although the annual aver(Unit : Person) 776 751 526 (Unit : %) 44.60 72.43 83.20 mined to increase the employment of minority groups in the future. As of the end of 2010, Daewoo (Unit : Case) 396 349 407 age training hours slightly decreased from the previous year, down to 107 hours in 2010, 407 training Securities had 55 disabled employees, up 10% from the a year earlier. Although this figure falls short (Unit : KRW) 831,988 591,843 717,525 courses were run, up 20% from the previous year, increasing diversity in choice. of the 2.3% legally required mandatory employment rate of the disabled under the Act on Employment Promotion and Vocational Rehabilitation for Disabled Persons, it plans to hire more disabled persons Training Hours & Courses in 2011, thereby meeting the legal requirements and will continue to expand the percentage of disabled employees in the future. Unit 2008 2009 2010 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Temporary Employment Annual average training hours The financial investment business typically has a high employee turnover ratio, and relies heavily on FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Hour 142 119 107 (total training hours / total workforce) Conversion Candidates highly-knowledgeable experts. Therefore, the portion of contract-based temporary employment is parPercentage ticularly high in those job duties requiring expertise. Nevertheless, Daewoo Securities does not disAnnual No. of Per No. of training courses Case 396 349 407 average training capita criminate either in terms of HRM or welfare benefit offers to these temporary workers, ensuring their training courses average Per capita average training expenses hours training KRW 831,988 591,843 717,525 equality with its regular employees. Unless caused by dereliction of duties or punishment, temporary (Total training expenses / total workforce) expenses contracts are renewed and extended indefinitely. Provided that the temporary worker satisfies all required competencies, the company may, in principle, turn them into a regular employee. 058 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 059 Stakeholder Management Appendix Talent Management Fair Evaluation of Performance Employee Communication Stakeholder Management Through grading the performance of individual employees, the company strives to make fair comStakeholder Management Daewoo Securities has established regular interviews for departments and sets guidelines for the inTalent Management Talent Management pensation in base salaries, incentives, and various welfare benefits. Conducted annually, personnel terview process. Inquiries or suggestions on personnel management policies are promptly addressed evaluation and grading is done both by supervisors and subordinates. Supervisors look at perforand answered in order to enhance employee understanding and awareness. The career development Workforce Workforce mance and competencies of employees and mark them on a five-point scale. Subordinates assess programs’ standards are set according to individual job duties, and the company actively supports its Cultivating Global Competencies Cultivating Global Competencies in Employees their senior’s leadership, contribution to corporate culture, promotion of core values, and application in Employees employees with career development plans. Fair Human Resources Management of job competencies and mark them on a five-point scale. Fair Human Resources Management Employee Communication Employee Communication Welfare Programs Welfare Programs Hot ChanneL Retail Community Labor-Management Relations Labor-Management Relations Self-assessment Details • Daewoo Securities has established a hotline, con• In 2011, Daewoo Securities opened its retail comInterview nected to the director of the Business Management Unit, munity service in an effort to enhance its employees’ Preliminary Subject Executives • Manager•Team Leader part of its in-house HR system, that serves as the chanknowledge in markets, clients, and products, as well as assessment nel for employees to voice their opinions. to promote interactive communication. While providing Performance Evaluation & Career • Executives : leadership / compliance / corporate culture / + merits/demerits model portfolios by the Retail Investment Strategy ConDevelopment Evaluation Ratio Feedback • Managers : leadership / compliance /core value /corporate culture + sulting Department, it serves as a venue for interactive 88.9 88.6 89.1 Criteria merits/demerits (Unit : %) Final communication among its employees. assessment • Team leaders : leadership / compliance / core value / job competency + merits / demerits Evaluation Confirmation Providing opportunities for interactive communication and used Opportunities In-house Messenger Service In-house Publication Grading by CEO for managerial competence-building and for organizational discipline FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 <Supervisor> <Subordinate> • The company-wide messenger ser-vice helps em• Daewoo Securities’ in-house publication “Daewoo ployees with interactive communication at work. Securities People” was launched in 1984. Over the past 26 years, it has served as an established communication channel for the company and its employees, and their Rational Compensation families, receiving the top prize for the in-house pubDaewoo Securities ensures fair compensation in proportion to its employees’ individual performance lication category at the “2010 Korea Communications and competencies through its annual payment system. The merit-based annual pay scheme increases Awards.” employee commitment and enhances corporate competitiveness. Beyond basic salaries, the company offers incentives to individual employees and to teams as motivation. Without discriminating based on seniority or age, the individual incentives motivate employees to realize their full potential. Team incentives are paid in proportion to excess corporate profits. Total Compensation Interview I KukYong Kim, Executive Managing Director, Head of Global Financial Markets Base Salary Cash Compensation interview Incentive With the belief that employees are the creators of corporate value, Daewoo Securities has put forth tremendous effort to retain and foster talented employees over the past 40 years. As a result, Daewoo Securities has earned a • Housing expenses subsidies • Family affairs subsidies reputation as the home to the financial leaders in the Korean securities business. In the rapidly-changing finanBenefits • Grants • Leisure expense subsidies Benefits cial markets, sustainable growth requires far-sighted goals and the concerted effort of all employees. At Daewoo • Medical subsidies & health check-up Securities, we consider our employees to be members of the Daewoo Securities Family and consistently strive to provide excellent working conditions, where employees can realize their full potential, while still achieving a balance between their working hours and private lives. 060 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 061 Stakeholder Management Appendix Talent Management Welfare Programs Labor Union Stakeholder Management In support of the work-life balance for its employees, Daewoo Securities offers various welfare proStakeholder Management Daewoo Securities upholds the three labor rights as stipulated in Article 33 of the Constitution of Korea Talent Management Talent Management and does not have any bylaws or regulations that counter or curtail the application of the law. Its bylaws grams, including time-share condominiums and subsidies for club activities. Other financial support detail the rights of labors, including the right of collective bargaining, the right to organize, and the right includes housing loans, grants, and medical subsidies. Furthermore, the company upholds the right to Workforce Workforce maternity leave. Through these programs, the company strives to reduce absentee rates and the resultto participate in collective actions. Cultivating Global Competencies Cultivating Global Competencies in Employees ant loss in days of productivity. As of the end of 2010, the absentee rate stood at 0.22% and the loss in in Employees Labor-Management Communication Fair Human Resources Management days of productivity at 0.00104%. Fair Human Resources Management Employee Communication Employee Communication Daewoo Securities enacted its labor-management council regulations in 1990. Under these regulations, Welfare Programs Welfare Benefits Welfare Programs six representatives from both the management and labor union meet at the Labor-Management Council Labor-Management Relations Labor-Management Relations once every quarter. In 2010, the council convened four times in total. There is no explicit time limit in Descriptions the notification of major changes to the management issues, provided that each party fully abides by the Leisure Supports Time-shares / Club subsidies good faith principle. Maternity Rights Protection Paid maternity leave / Congratulatory gifts Housing Loans Housing loan / Lease loan Union Membership Labor-Management Council Medical Subsidies Medical subsidies / Health check-ups In addition to the regular labor-management council meetings, Daewoo Securities operates an estab(Unit: Persons) 2,164 2,418 2,537 Grants Grants (Unit: Persons) 2,043 2,127 2,105 lished communication channel at the Human Resources Department under the Chief Personnel Officer, Special monthly leave for women / Preand post-natal leave / (Unit: %) 94.4 88.0 83.0 head of the Business Management Unit. The weekly meetings between managers and the labor union Legal benefits Paternity leave / Yearly paid leave / Holiday-work allowances discuss and consult on general management and personnel issues, and special meetings are convened on demand. Stress Management Programs Return to Work Rates after Parental Leaves Daewoo Securities runs stress management programs in order to help its employees effectively manage the stress from their work and in their lives through psychological consulting programs. It helps employ98% 100% 98% ees to allay their anxiety, improving productivity and reducing safety accidents in the fulfillment of their FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Female business activities. No. of employees qualified for union membership Health Check-ups No. of employees who joined the union Characteristic to the knowledge-based financial industry, the working conditions of Daewoo Securities Membership ratio 2008 2009 2010 are not unaffected by physical and mental strain, although it is not as demanding as manufacturing labor. Therefore, the company has put in place several preemptive measures to prevent of such risks. In addi0% 100% 100% tion, the company gives biannual health check-ups for employees and their spouses aged 35 and over. Male Retirement Life Planning Programs In the event of restructuring or early retirement, the company supports its employees’ retirement preparations through its “Retirement Life-Planning Program.” In order to secure a high quality of living for its 2008 2009 2010 retiree-to-be, the program provides education and training information, as well as job information and business start-up consultation services. This comes at the end of a life-long career development plan for its employees. Interview 인터 I Shi-On Kim, Clerk, Human Resources Department Paternity Leave Beginning in 2009, Daewoo Securities began a paternity leave program, in compliance with the Act on Equal Employment and Support for Work-Family Reconciliation. This program promotes gender equality for family rights after childbirth. interview Labor-Management Relations Without mentioning the equal opportunities in career development, the generous welfare programs that help emDaewoo Securities recognizes the legal activities of labor unions. The labor union participates through ployees achieve a balance between work and home are the most valuable assets of Daewoo Securities. The “Hapclear communication in the decision-making process on material management issues that have signifipiness Program,” along with the consulting center, assists employees with stress management. As the company cant impact on employment with the executive management. The company does not endorse any discrimicommits to interactive communication and a more liberal corporate culture, I believe Daewoo Securities will renation against labor union activities as they relate to its employees’ career. main a great workplace. 062 063 Community Engagement “Building a Better World Together” Daewoo Securities’ volunteer corps received a prize from the Korean Prime Minister at the 11th Social Work Day ceremony for its social contribution activities. Having started off at a monthly donation plan to raise KRW 20 million, in 2010 the employees’ monthly donations reached KRW 75 million. Accordingly, the number of charities benefiting from their generosity also increased from 27 to 76. Daewoo Securities is committed to building a happier world for everyone. “Buy Clean Water for African Children” Daewoo Securities launched a campaign to secure clean drinking water for African children. The company sells bottled, dirty water for KRW 1,000: equivalent to the cost to supply clean water to an African child for 36 days. We hope that one day all needy African children can get year-round access to clean drinkable water. Our Approach & Principle Local communities are our closest partners for building a sustainable future. As a responsible corporate citizen, Daewoo Securities commits itself to mutually beneficial and engaged management for mutual growth. Key Performance A total of 2,600 Daewoo Securities employees have donated KRW 43 million per month to causes such as “Keep the Backing on” and “Beautiful Donation.” In following the employees’ commitment to sustainability management and social contribution, Daewoo Securities invests the donated funds towards social causes in order of priority. 064 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 065 Stakeholder Management Appendix Community Engagement Daewoo Securities’ Social Contributions Social Contribution Organization Stakeholder Management Stakeholder Management Daewoo Securities is well aware that volunteer activities form the foundation of corporate social reUnder the CSR slogan “A company that puts its customers before everything, building a great workplace Community Engagement Community Engagement sponsibility (CSR). Therefore, the company encourages its employees to participate in various volunteer for employees, and a better world for everyone,” Daewoo Securities created the volunteer corps as a programs. For its part, it actively looks for more opportunities to give back to society, and continues to company-wide approach to social contribution activities in July of 2009. Daewoo Securities’ Social Contributions Daewoo Securities’ Social Contributions Social Contribution Schemes expand its social contribution programs to build a “better society for all.” Social Contribution Schemes Social Contribution Organization Social Contribution Organization CSR Organization Chart Mutual Prosperity Mutual Prosperity Participation Participation Social Contribution Schemes Donations Donations As a responsible corporate citizen, Daewoo Securities has established a social contribution scheme BOD Launched on July 13, 2009 resting on three pillars, mutual prosperity, participation, and sharing. Departing from sporadic Transferred the CSR from the General Affairs donations or one-off volunteer activities, this scheme integrates social contributions into a companyCEO Department wide approach to promote the mutual growth of the company and local communities. Responsibility CSR Steering Serves as the company-wide control tower of Committee social contribution activities Engages in differentiated social contribution Volunteer Corps Donation activities Implementing differentiated social contribution activities is the key part of its Beneficiary Staff : five persons sustainability management CSR Executive Office Selection Including (one representative, one director and Committee three staffs Mutual Prosperity CSR Steering Committee Consisting of five executives, the CSR Steering Committee plans and implements social contribution strategies, allocates the CSR project budget, and audits the spending of contributions and its budget once every quarter. Participation Sharing Volunteer Corps Daewoo Securities’ Volunteer Corps was launched in July of 2009 under the principle that “Social contributions are the best way for companies to communicate with society, its origin,” and transferred CSR duties over from the General Affairs Department. Serving as the control tower for a company-wide approach to sustainability management, the volunteer corps implements and oversees differentiated social contributions, community engagement programs at regional headquarters, and employee volunteer activities. In line with the basic principle that its volunteers should “support those most in need first,” Community engagement ㆍmutually Internalizing the spirit of sharing and the company increased its social contribution budget for 2010 by 15% on the previous year, at the same beneficial social contributions sharing through partnerships time expanding the number of beneficiaries and the subsidy amount. Donation Beneficiary Selection Committee Consisting of the general managers of the General Affairs Department, Human Resources Department, and Business Management Department, the committee deliberates and determines the beneficiaries and the donation conditions, based on the due diligence reports by the volunteer corps about the candidates. 066 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 067 Stakeholder Management Appendix Community Engagement Mutual Prosperity Stakeholder Management Community Education Daewoo Securities Volunteer Corps supports a volunteering theme that focuses on multi-cultural famiCommunity Engagement lies and equal education for underprivileged teenagers. It has assigned 50% of the total budget to these projects, sponsoring 61 beneficiaries. The multi-cultural family support projects include distributing Daewoo Securities has implemented education programs for teenagers from low-income families and Daewoo Securities’ Social Contributions recipe books and recipe calendars as well as the International Multi-Cultural School projects. Under the blind university students with strong academic motivations, helping them cherish and realize their Social Contribution Schemes Social Contribution Organization equal education for underprivileged teenagers project, the company sponsors the educational university dreams. Committed to providing equal opportunities in education, the company supports university stuMutual Prosperity volunteer corps, “People Sharing Education,” as well as helping the Community Daycare Centers. dents’ voluntary teaching programs and afterschool programs for underprivileged children. Participation Donations Supporting Multi-cultural Families • Scholarship Programs for • Supporting EduShare In proportion to the growing number of international marriages, multi-cultural families are emerging in Underprivileged Teenagers In 2009, Daewoo Securities has sponsored EduShare. a greater number in Korea than in the past. In a bid to help them integrate into society, Daewoo SecuriDaewoo Securities provides KRW 100,000 for each Edushare is a volunteer corps of university students ties has implemented various programs. scholarship and mentoring program to 100 students who went to Seoul Science High School. Daewoo from low-income families, attending a select 10 midSecurities subsidizes educational materials, PCs and dle schools in Seoul. The company donated Braille servers, and invites the volunteer teachers and their Recipe Calendars in Various Languages Korean Food Recipe Books note-taking devices to ten blind students selected for students to workshops as well as various cultural and their strong academic motivations. artistic events. As a result, the Edushare program increased from two branches to six branches including Yong-san, Mapo, Goyang, Geumcheon, Guro, and Daejeon Yuseon. • In collaboration with Sookmyung Women’s University In• Daewoo Securities published recipe books containing 45 stitute of Korean Food, Daewoo Securities distributed 22,500 Korean side dishes and an introduction to Korean food culture copies of 2009 calendars with Korean recipes in seven differin seven languages. Publishing a total of 10,300 copies, the ent languages to 195 Multi-Cultural Family Support Centers company distributed the book to migrants in Korea. In 2011, and Migrant Worker’s Shelters across the nation. In 2010, the company plans to publish the book in nine languages. the company distributed 73,000 copies of the calendars with • Afterschool Programs & • Mentoring Program 12 Korean recipes in seven languages to 171 Multi-Cultural Subsidies to Daycare Centers ※ Nine languages selected for 2011 calendar include Selecting local university students to be volunteer Family Support Centers, 14 Immigration offices, 35 Migrant Chinese, English, French, German, Indonesian, Committed to educational equality for future generateachers, Daewoo Securities provides mentoring Worker’s Shelters, and 25 Migrants Human Rights Centers for Mongolian, Tagalog, Thai, and Vietnamese. tions, Daewoo Securities provides afterschool proprograms to middleand high-school students from Women, helping foreign residents better understand Korean grams to children from low-income families. low-income backgrounds. Additionally, it provides foods. work-study scholarships to the volunteer teachers. The mentoring program includes a free tutoring service, winter camps, and various other field trip programs. 068 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 069 Stakeholder Management Appendix Community Engagement Participation Stakeholder Management Monthly Themed Volunteer Programs Daewoo Securities encourages and promotes company-wide participation in its social contribution Community Engagement activities. The company sponsors 44 beneficiaries, mostly multi-cultural families and youth education programs. The company encourages its employees and their families to participate in these programs Since 2009, Daewoo Securities has run various monthly, themed volunteer programs in which its emDaewoo Securities’ Social Contriat least once a year. ployees and their families’ can participate. Through such programs as Habitat for Humanity, Lending butions Social Contribution Schemes Farming Hands, Making Kimchi for Humanity, and Delivering Briquettes for Humanity, employees and Social Contribution Organization their families can experience unforgettable memories and foster a spirit of volunteerism in society. Mutual Prosperity Participation Encouraging Volunteerism Donations • Habitat for Humanity • Lending a hand on farms / At Daewoo Securities, everyone is well aware that volunteer activities constitute the first step to social clearing shrubs contribution activities. Launched in March of 1984, the volunteer corps of Daewoo Securities female employees, Haetsalhoe, visited underprivileged citizens at orphanages and in elderly care homes to provide volunteer services. Since 2006, the company has encouraged all of its employees to participate in volunteer activities on an average of at least four hours per year. • Encouraging Volunteerism • Delivering Briquettes and • Other Social Contribution Activities Kimchi for Humanity 070 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 071 Stakeholder Management Appendix Community Engagement Donations Donation Spent Stakeholder Management The “Lovemeter” has its origin in the “Make Donations” intranet posting, a voluntary donation page set The funds raised through the Lovemeter are spent on various social contribution programs and acCommunity Engagement tivities, allowing the company’s CSR vision of building a happier and brighter future for the society to up on the company’s intranet. A total of 2,600 employees, or 85% of the total workforce, have particibecome reality. pated, establishing the Lovemeter as a symbol of the company’s unique donation practices. Daewoo Securities’ Social Contributions Social Contribution Schemes Daewoo Securities Social Contribution Budget (Unit : KRW million) Social Contribution Organization Lovemeter Mutual Prosperity Daewoo Securities initiated the donation drive called “Keep the backing on” in October of 2005. In July 2009.7~2010.3 2010.4~2010.12 2011.1~2011.12 Participation of 2009, the company transformed the initiative into a company-wide approach to its donation practices Volunteer Corps Budget 13.5 27.0 36.00 Donations when it opened the Lovemeter page on its intranet. The number of voluntary donations and number of Employee Donations 65.0 55.0 60.0 donators continued to grow, each year after that. As a result, the number of regular donators has grown Total 20.10 32.5 42.0 from an initial 1,300 employees in July of 2009 to 2,600, or 85% of total workforce, in 2010, providing about KRW 43 million every month. In collaboration with the Community Chest of Korea, the funds help Daewoo Securities Volunteer Corps Budget families who are caring for grandparents, children with incurable diseases, to subsidize the volunteer (Unit : KRW million) groups managed under the regional headquarters. 2009.7~2010.3 2010.4~2010.12 2011.1~2011.12 Multi-Cultural Family Support 3.3 9.1 14.0 Underprivileged Youth Education Support 1.2 4.7 8.2 As of July 2009 As of March 2011 Disabled, childcare, etc 3.0 3.7 4.4 Contribution to the Holding Group 1.9 3.0 4.0 One-time donation & volunteerism support 0.4 4.0 2.5 Emergency and Distress Relief 2.5 6.3 5.9 Socially Responsible Business 3.0 Total 12.3 30.8 42.0 월 기부금 * Figures represent the accumulated data since the launch of the volunteer corps in July of 2009. 43,097,000원 현재 2,596명 / 목표 3,200명 오늘의 참여 인원 0명 No. of participants : 1,130 No. of participants : 2,596 Amount : KRW 14,350,000 Amount : KRW 43,097,000 Interview I Sung-Chul Kim, Executive Office Chief, Social Service Headquarters -----------1,200 Persons (83%) Total Participants Branch Office -----------1,380 Persons (87%) Ratio accounted for 85% interview Daewoo Securities fulfills its corporate social responsibility through win-win management, participative management, and sharing management practices. As part of win-win management, we support a variety of multi-cultural family oriented programs. As part of the participative management, we encourage employees’ to join in various volunteer programs. Sharing management ensures an increase the scope and benefit to our social contribution programs. At the same time, the company supports and promotes socially responsible businesses and generates jobs for local communities, in pursuit of mutually beneficial partnerships with its stakeholders. 072 073 Green Management “Securing New Growth Engines for Green Finance” Committed to preserving the environment, Daewoo Securities engages in various initiatives. From the energy conservation campaign to green financial initiatives that promote eco-friendliness in business, the utmost efforts will be taken towards building a brighter and greener future for the planet. “Investing in Environmental Value” Daewoo Securities has set up the ‘Green Finance Promotion Committee,” dedicated to finding new growth engines for green finance and practicing green management. Composed of nine executive members, the Committee discovers new growth engine business models for green finance through the Working Council, a group of general managers from related departments. The Working Council develops green funds, new CDM projects, investments in alternative energy source businesses, and emissions trading schemes. Our Approach & Principle Daewoo Securities strives to build an environmentally friendly corporate culture to foster harmony between human society and nature. As a leader in green financing, the company actively promotes green finance knowledge and services in addressing climate change, while establishing green management practices within and outside the workplace. Key Performance The launch of the integrated groupware e-workflow system laid the groundwork for realizing a paperless office at Daewoo Securities. The new system has reduced the volume of paper use for 2010 to 83% of that used in 2008. Reining in copy paper expenses, we have controlled resource waste and improved office eco-friendliness. 074 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 075 Stakeholder Management Appendix Green Management Spreading Green Management Practices Stakeholder Management Stakeholder Management Green Finance Promotion Committee At Daewoo Securities, we care about the planet and the sustainable prosperity of society. Daewoo SeGreen Management Green Management curities strives to awaken its customers to the significance environment issues through multiple green financing products and services. As a responsible corporate citizen, it works to financially address cli• Daewoo Securities launched the Green Finance Promotion Committee in 2010 to develop ideas for green finanSpreading Green Management Practices Spreading Green Management Practices mate change. cial products and raise its corporate image as a green financing leader. Comprised of nine executive members, the Environmental Management Performance Environmental Management Performance Committee collaborates with the Working Council, a group of general managers from related departments, for swift A Green Workplace A Green Workplace Environmental Management Policies decision-making and an organized workflow through an integrated channel for the company-wide green financial Green Finance Green Finance initiatives. Daewoo Securities laid the foundation for its environmental management system in 2006, putting into practice and establishing a company-wide environmental management process. The three-pronged environmental management policies set forth missions against which the company assesses the practices CEO and performance. The results are used in setting future goals. In addition, we abide by global standards and regulations when developing environmental management policies and in response to changes in Chairman of the Green Finance Promotion Committee global environmental regulations and systems. Green Finance Promotion Committee Environmental Management Policies & Missions Green Finance Promotion Working Council Project Financing Genera Affairs Corporate Investment Equity Derivatives PE Dept. Dept., Dept., Research Dept., Research Dept., Dept. Customer Asset Trust Product Strategic Optimizing Realizing PI Dept. PR Dept Establishing Trading Dept., Management Dept. Development Dept., Planning Dept eco-friendly green financial a green input and environments workplace output Adopting a target-management system Planning and practicing environmental Reviewing environmentally-responsible for eco-friendly input and output Reflecting environmental performance activities Reducing on the consumption of derivatives products Including the environmental Environmental Management Performance data electricity and water management practices in IB business Complying with global standards and Reducing disposable paper cup use activities and research reports Being a financial investment company that provides advanced financial engineering services, Daewoo increasing related activities Reviewing the feasibility of financial Securities’ business activities do not generate adverse impact, potential or actual, on the local cominvestment incentives to environmentally-responsible companies munities. Committed to environmental management, however, the company strives to enhance work efficiency and raise employees’ awareness of the significance of environmental issues. During the reporting period, there was not a single violation of environmental regulations or resultant sanctions. Environmental Management Goals Daewoo Securities has established and put in place environmental management goals in order to Green Energy achieve its environmental management policies. In 2010, the company reinforced its environmental Daewoo Securities has established detailed checklists on its energy consumption and worked on ways management system and theme-based environmental protection activities. In 2011, it plans to introduce Greenhouse Gas to reduce energy waste and water consumption. Although the new fitness center and newly opened many more green financial products and services. At the same time, it plans on reinforcing its employ(Unit : tCO2eq) branches increased the overall electricity use, Daewoo Securities continues to take charge of unnecesees’ competences to promote the implementation of its environmental management policies. 37,059.7 38,098.8 39,622.7 sary energy waste. For instance, indoor temperature at the main office is kept below the legal limit and 749.9 721.8 749.4 employees are encouraged to turn off lights when they go out for lunch. 37,807.6 38,820.6 40,372.1 Environmental Management System (At the main office in Seoul and Gwacheon office) Daewoo Securities operates a comprehensive environmental policy process encompassing procedures 2008 2009 2010 for the planning, practicing, evaluation, reviewing and improving of a balanced environmental management development within the company. In the future, the company plans to expand the application of Direct Energy Use City Gas(TJ) 4.0 4.3 4.2 the environmental management system to all business activities on its premises, including overseas Electricity(TJ) 214.0 220.0 228.8 Indirect Energy Use subsidiaries as well as domestic branches and the head office. District Heating(TJ) 10.3 9.4 10.1 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Total Energy Use (TJ) 228.3 233.7 243.1 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emission * The indirect energy use, electricity and district heating, are supplied by the Seoul Thermal Power Plant, which uses natural Direct Greenhouse Emission gas as fuel source, and there is no other renewable energy supply. Reviewing & Total Emission Planning Practicing Evaluating Improving 2008 2009 2010 Water Supply (m³) 80,215 79,701 81,137 * Water resources come from the public water supply system, without on-site wastewater treatment or recycling facilities. 076 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 077 Stakeholder Management Appendix Green Management Reducing Paper Waste in the Office Mitigating Climate Change Stakeholder Management Beginning in April of 2010, the company switched to using recycled papers and tape through the proStakeholder Management Different from manufacturing companies, Daewoo Securities has less impact on the environment or Green Management curement MRO system. Green consumption is a mandatory item to be reviewed for procurement planGreen Management climate change. Nevertheless, the increasing expense to address climate change and the resultant ning, with a weighted adjustment. The company encourages the use of green products and the list is reduction in profitability will have an adverse impact on the financial markets. Fully aware of this, the Spreading Green Management Practices Spreading Green Management Practices to be expanded in the future. Papers containing customer information are shredded after use and not company has made positive progress towards mitigating climate change. In addition to its participaEnvironmental Management Performance Environmental Management Performance reused. Introduced in 2011, the KDB Financial Group’s Integrated Groupware e-Workflow System is tion in the carbon disclosure project (CDP), the company has recently adopted the Caring for Climate A Green Workplace Mitigating Climate Change expected to realize a paperless office. Declaration. Green Finance A Green Workplace Green Finance Signing to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) With the rising concern over growing carbon emissions and the consequent global warming, a growing number of international financial institutions are signing on to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). As a responsible corpo2008 2009 2010 rate citizen, committed to propagating the importance of greenhouse gas emissions control and addressing climate Total use of papers Total use of papers Total use of papers change for its stakeholders, Daewoo Securities is also working to sign on to the CDP. 205.4 ton 202.2 ton 169.8 ton Adopted the UN Caring for Climate Declaration In a bid to alert society to climate change issues and to fulfill its responsibilities, Daewoo Securities adopted the “Caring for Climate” Declaration in 2009, and has reported on its environmental management performance to the UN Publications 23.5 Publications 23.0 Publications 22.0 Global Compact every year. Direct messages (DM) 5.8 Direct messages (DM) 5.7 Direct messages (DM) 5.6 Copy paper use 176.2 Copy paper use 173.5 Copy paper use 142.2 Volume of Waste Reducing Waste Green Purchase Performances A Green Workplace 8,774,900 Waste generated at the head office and branches of Daewoo Securities is mostly paper and office sup(Unit : KRW million) 2.44 2.41 2.58 In a proactive response to the pending issue of climate change, Daewoo Securities endeavors to estab(Unit : tons) 8,369,500 plies. In an attempt to increase waste recycling, the company donates scrap iron and worn out office lish a green workplace. Committed to its environmental responsibilities for its stakeholders, the com4,463,400 supplies for recycling. In 2011, a company-wide campaign was mounted to eliminate the use of dispospany implements various eco-friendly initiatives such as the green office initiative, a green purchasing able paper cups. system, preferred purchase of recycled products, and the purchase of eco-friendly hybrid vehicles for official use. Environmental Investments & Costs Daewoo Securities earmarks a sum of money to purchase poly bags, to discharge waste from the main FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 office and Gwacheon office separately, according to their use. It helps the company to precisely measure Increasing Green Purchase and Recycling the waste discharge and reduction at the headquarters and at all branch locations, to maintain vigilance Daewoo Securities joins in the Green Bag campaign by the retail business and uses recycled-paper bags made by over the accomplishments of its environmental management initiatives. local environmentally-friendly companies. Afterwards, it expanded the use of recycled paper to copy paper, business cards, handouts, and other office supplies, establishing itself as a green office initiative leader. Daewoo Securities Challenges Employees to Not Use Disposable Paper Cups at Work Green Office, Green Building Cigarettes contain a notorious number of pollutants, hazardous to both people and the environment, such as nicotine, • As part of its green management initiative, Daewoo Securities began encouraging use of personal mugs, instead tar, phenol and dioxin. In order to eliminate these hazardous substances from its premises, Daewoo Securities has of disposable paper cups at its headquarters, HRD Center, and IT Center in April of 2011. Posted in elevators, the mounted a six-month long smoking cessation campaign. With funds raised through the campaign, the company supcompany notified its staff of the annual consumption of disposable paper cups and the resultant volume of carbon ports environmental activities inside and outside the company. emissions, under the slogan “Save the Earth.” Phasing in Hybrid Vehicles In order to reduce the exhaust emissions during its employees' daily commute, Daewoo Securities encourages the use of mass transportation and car pooling. Committed to minimizing the environmental impact of all its business activities, both inside and outside its premises, Daewoo Securities phased in eco-friendly hybrid vehicles, which have 90% reduced greenhouse gas emissions, for official use. 078 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 079 Stakeholder Management Appendix Green Management Energy Saving Stakeholder Management Stakeholder Management 4 Nubija Donation Wrap Green Management Energy Saving Initiatives Green Management “Nubija Donation Wrap” is a financial product which donates a portion of the excess profits to the community project created by Changwon City to expand common-use infrastructure for bicycle riders called, “Nubija.” As of now, 1,230 Missions Spreading Green Management Practices Spreading Green Management Practices Nubija bicycles are operated at 101 terminals with the number of daily users approaching 8,000. Environmental Management Performance Turning office lights off at lunch and after work Environmental Management Performance ※ Nubija is the name for common-share bicycles offered by Changwon City. Begun in October of 2010, Changwon City has A Green Workplace Turning lights off throughout the building, except at the desks of those A Green Workplace successfully operated its unmanned bike-rental service as part of its eco-friendly green city initiative. Reducing Green Finance working overtime Green Finance Electricity Use Turning off the lights on exterior signboards and standing signboards Replacing lights with LEDs (sales branches and rest rooms) 5 Daewoo Green Korea Equity-type Master Wrap Daewoo Securities became the first Korean financial institution to introduce the “Green Korea Wrap” that invests in Reducing Lowering the water pressure and checking for water leakage in rest rooms green growth businesses, laying the groundwork for future green finance in Korea. Leveraging on the features of wrap Water Use Checking for leakage along the water pipes accounts, which have no asset portfolio limits, the product concentrates investments on ten selected companies in the green business sector, such as solar power, LEDs, wind power and carbon footprint reduction. The aggressive investment operation realized high economic performance, as well as social and environmental value. Cost-efficient operation of air-conditioners Reducing Discouraging personal heaters Fuel use Preferred use of hybrid vehicles for official use Propagating Green Finance Installing bike-racks for our bike commuters Promoting on the Use of Renewable Energy Others Reducing the number of overseas and out-of-city business trips through video conferences During the reporting period, Daewoo Securities held the Green Forum twice in March of 2009 and again in April 2010, inviting 140 Korean and international organizations, as well as businesses with achievements in “Low-Carbon Green Growth” initiatives. During the forum, companies operating in carbon footprint reduction, wind power, solar power generation, and other eco-friendly businesses gave briefGreen Finance ings on industrial trends, their technologies, and strategies. An official from the Ministry of Knowledge Daewoo Securities realizes a green financial environment through socially responsible investment (SRI) Economy gave a special lecture on “Understanding of the National Drive to Address Climate Change” products that support eco-friendly companies, guided by its fair transaction principle. As part of its and the “Green Energy Development Plan,” awakening the public to the significance of climate change. green finance initiative, it introduces green products in collaboration with local communities, and holds forums to help its customers better understand the concept and purpose of green finance. New Growth Engine Investment PEF Daewoo Securities was designated as the administrator for the green technology business of the New Green Financial Products Growth Engine Private Equity Fund (PEF) by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, investing in the capital growth for promising businesses, such as renewable energy, carbon-free technologies, LEDs, and green 1 Daewoo Securities Green Korea SPAC transportation systems. This project contributes to the development of green technologies, the efficient Daewoo Securities became the first Asian financial company to administer the enlisting of Green Korea SPAC stocks, reduction of greenhouse gasses, and addressing climate change, as well as establishing the best pracspecial purpose acquisition companies. Green Korea SPAC was established in December of 2009 for the purpose of a merger with a company that leads green growth business initiatives and the new growth engines industry. Participattice for green growth initiatives. ing shares include Daewoo Securities, Korea Teachers Pension Fund (KTPF), an insurance company, and the British hedge fund “Arrowgrass.” 2 SRI Equity-type Beneficiary Certificates Interview I Kyung-Seok Woo, Assistant Manager, General Affairs Department Daewoo Securities provides “KDB SRI Funds for a Better World,” jointly developed by the company, KDB, KDB Asset Management, and the Institute for Industrial Policy Study (IPS). The Funds make investments in consideration of financial performance, CSR performance, environmental policies, and the ethical practices of the investees. In contributing to the SRI funds, the company donates some of the revenues from the operating and selling of the mutual fund products. As of the end of March of 2011, the assets under management (AUM) amounted to KRW 9.31 billion. interview Environmental responsibility is the greatest challenge and most urgent issue that the human society faces in this 3 S&P Clean Energy Equity-Type Beneficiary Certificate century. In addressing environmental issues, Daewoo Securities adopted hybrid vehicles for official company use Daewoo Securities offers “KDAP S&P Clean Energy Equity-type Funds,” which invests in global clean energy busiand has reduced paper use at its workplaces. Leveraging its experienced knowledge in the industry, the company nesses. In alliance with the world’s renowned index agency S&P, the company developed the product using the “S&P Global Clean Energy Index” benchmark as one of its environmentally responsible products. In March of 2011, the AUM also makes aggressive investments in eco-friendly projects. In the future, we will continue our research activities stood at KRW 5.3 billion. and commit to eco-friendly products and business as a leading global financial company. 081 Stakeholder Management Appendix UN Global Compact 04 Appendix Principles & Pledges Daewoo Securities joined the UN Global Compact in October 2006, pledging its commitment to the international standards of business ethics and sustainability management. Since then, the company has abided by the ten principles in the four categories of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Daewoo Securities prohibits child labor, guarantees prenatal and postnatal leave in protection of maternity rights, sick leave and annual leave. In the future, it will proactively work to improve stakeholder relations, maintain cooperative labor-management relations, and actively participate in the environmental causes and disclose its performance in these areas to its stakeholders. UN Global Compact Principle Performance Indicators G3 Employee education 1. Businesses should support and respect HR1, HR2, HR3, Human Rights Protection training, the protection of internationally proclaimed HR4, HR5, HR6, Human business ethics training human rights. HR7 Rights Sexual harassment prevention training 2. Businesses ensure that they are not Total number of discrimination cases HR4, HR8 complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom Labor union & membership of association and the effective recognition HR5, LA4, LA5 Labor disputes of the right to collective bargaining. Compliance with the Labor Standards Act, 4. Businesses eliminate all forms of forced and International Labor Organization HR7 Labor compulsory labor Convention, collective bargaining rights Compliance w or Organization Convention, 5. Businesses effectively abolish child labor. HR6 collective bargaining rights 6. Businesses eliminate discrimination Disabled employment and HR4, LA2, Appendix in respect to employment and occupation. female employment rates LA10, LA13, LA14 7. Businesses should support a precautionary UNEP FI, environmental risk 4.11 approach to environmental challenges. management system Green financial products, carbon neutrality EN12, EN13, 8. Businesses undertake initiatives to promote program environmental performance EN14, EN18, Environment greater environmental responsibility. management and greenhouse EN21, EN22, gas reduction EN26, EN30 081 UN Global Compact 9. Businesses encourage the development Energy saving campaigns, environmental EN5, EN6, EN7, and diffusion of environmentally-friendly investments, fostering green growth EN10, EN18, 082 Third Party’s Assurance Statement technologies. industries EN26 084 GRI Application Level Check Statement 10. Businesses should work against corruption AntiIntegrity pact and signing, business 085 GRI G3 Guidelines in all its forms, including extortion and SO2, SO3, SO4 Corruption ethics self-assessment 091 Associations & Memberships bribery. Reader's Feedback 082 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 083 Stakeholder Management Appendix Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the stakeholders of the Daewoo Securities sustainability issues. The Assurance Provider found that the key sustainability issues in the financial industry were identiUpon request, Daewoo Securities (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) and the Korea Productivity Center (hereinaffied as customer satisfaction management, talent retention and training, trust-based communication with employees, and ter referred to as the “Assurance Provider”) present the following third party assurance statement for the 2011 Daewoo eco-friendly financial products. The Assurance Provider confirms that the Report fairly states these issues and the related Securities Sustainability Report (hereinafter referred to as the “Report”). information. The Assurance Provider advises Daewoo Securities to consult with external specialists and refer to government policies when the company identifies issues, to fully reflect the issues and related information in future publications. Accountability and Independence Responsiveness: Organization’s Responsiveness to Issues Daewoo Securities may be held accountable for all information and claims contained in the Report. The Assurance ProThe Assurance Provider has confirmed that Daewoo Securities engages in a variety of activities to properly respond to vider is responsible only for this statement. As an independent assurance agency, the Assurance Provider has not been various sustainability issues. The Company implements CS Monitoring, CS Indicators, CS Manager System, and new cusinvolved in the preparation of the Report and has no stake in Daewoo Securities that can undermine its independence from tomer satisfaction surveys to realize customer-oriented management and enhance customer satisfaction. In order to the Company. secure and foster talented workers, the Company has established a new education system and strives to further advance its HRD system through the “Daewoo Securities Academy.” Dedicated to trust-based communication with employees, the Criteria for Assurance Company has in place such programs as Hot Channel, Retail Community, and an in-house magazine. In particular, the AsThe Assurance statement is based on the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008), which checks the report content against surance Provider wishes to emphasize the fact that the Company has launched the Green Finance Promotion Committee the requirements of Type 1 and Moderate Level guidelines. The Assurance Provider verified that the data compiled in to implement its green finance initiatives. The Assurance the Report was based on the three core principles of AA1000APS, namely Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. In Provider advises Daewoo Securities to present midand long-term strategies, plans to address present issues, as well as addition, the Assurance Provider evaluated the content of the Report to ensure that it adheres to the GRI Sustainability the performance of such activities in the future publications. Reporting G3.1 Guidelines. Recommendations Limitations The Assurance Provider recognizes the Company’s commitment and achievements in enhancing sustainability. It recomThis assurance engagement does not provide an evaluation on the credibility of the offered data in the Report. On-site due mends the following factors to be considered for the future publications: diligence was conscribed only to the head office in Seoul, excluding the overseas branches and domestic offices. Accord1. Establish a company-wide sustainability management system, including overseas operations and domestic offices, and ingly, the statement is open to change, depending on the results of any additional due diligence. expand the scope of reporting to include the performance and activities at these locations Methodology 2. Develop long-term sustainability management plans and goals, and present them in future publications 3. Establish more systematic channels for stakeholder engagement and link it to the Company’s sustainability manageThe Assurance Provider evaluated the content of the Report following the process outlined: ment system 1. Reviewed the appropriateness of the process for identifying and stating the material issues in the Report, which were 4. Develop various indicators and indexes for measuring the sustainability management performance and seamlessly tie determined through media research and benchmarking this to financial performance 2. Verified that the Report content meets all the requirements for the GRI Application Level A by reviewing the reporting 5. Establish a company-wide system for integrated control and management of diverse sustainability management inrate and statements of the indicators and financial supplementary indicators of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines dexes, and use it to improve the substantiality of future publications 3. Verified that the Report content adhere to the principles set for reported content and quality as provided in the GRI G3.1 Guidelines AS of May 2011 4. Comparative analysis for appropriateness and statement errors of the Report statement by comparing it against the sources 5. On-site due diligence at the head office in Seoul to verify the sources of data and information of the Report and to check the related internal process and system Conclusions President of Korea Productivity Center Dong Kyu Choi The Assurance Provider verifies that the Report covers the sustainability management activities and performance of Daewoo Securities objectively and substantially. The Report meets all the requirements for the self-declaration of the GRI Application Level A. Inclusivity : Stakeholder Engagement The Assurance Provider found that Daewoo Securities classifies its stakeholders into customers, shareholders, local Direcot Reserch Fellow Resercher Resercher communities, and environmental NGOs, and operates various communication channels and methods to reflect their different voices in its management activities. To collect customer feedback, the Company uses the VOC, website, home tradD.S. Kim T.H. Park J.M. Park Y.H. Kim ing system (HTS), customer service center, and customer satisfaction survey. In particular, it evaluates the Company’s commitment to interactive communication with stakeholders through IR seminars for investors, various promotion and Korea Productivity Center (KPC), established in 1957, has been at the forefront of increasing industry productivity through its accumulated marketing campaigns for customers, and cultural and sports sponsorships for local communities. The Assurance Proexperience as a specialized training and consulting agency. Recently, KPC has set up the Sustainability Management Center, which supports vider advises Daewoo Securities to evolve its stakeholder communication channels to be more diverse and systematic, businesses’ sustainability management activities, thereby improving the overall sustainability of the nation’s major industries. Since 2009, the and to keep managing and reporting the procedures and performance of such activities. Center has announced the DJSI Korea list in collaboration with Dow Jones Indexes and SAM. The DJSI Korea list helps Korean companies to Materiality: Material Issue Identification & Coverage put their sustainability management practices into perspective, against global best practices. The KPC Sustainability Management Center holds certification conferred by Accountability to conduct independent assurance service domestically. Accountability is a globally renowned standard The Assurance Provider found that Daewoo Securities has identified the major stakeholders in the financial industry and agency, which enacted the AA1000, the international standards for stakeholder engagement and assurance. The Assurance Committee consists their key sustainability management issues. In the process, the Company aggregated issues from extensive research and of experts in their respective fields who have profound experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance, and have completed analysis, including stakeholder surveys and interviews, review of internal policies, media analysis, best practices benchrelated training courses. marking, and analysis of international sustainability management standards. It ran materiality tests to finalize the key 084 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 085 Stakeholder Management Appendix GRI Application Level Check Statement GRI G3 Guidelines (● Reported, ◐ Partially reported, ○ Not reported, N/A) Company Overview Strategy and Analysis GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level 1.1 CEO’s message 6.2 5 ● 1.2 Risks and opportunities 6.2 5 ● Organization Profile GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level 2.1 Company name 9 ● 2.2 Flagship products and brands 9 ● 2.3 Organizational structure 6.2 20 ● Statement 2.4 Location of headquarters 9 ● 2.5 Countries where the company operates 9 ● 2.6 Ownership and legal form 10 ●      2.7 2.8 Markets served Scale of the company 9 9 ● ● Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2.9 10 ● structure, or ownership GRI hereby states that     has presented its report “2011 Sustainability Report” to GRI’s 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 12 13 ● ! & '&%!!!!% !%!  &4, Report Parameters    & %!!(!!!'!!!!3%   GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level % ! %$ % !!) ,  !!!% !% 3.1 Reporting period 1 ●   % !!  && ! !!!  3.2 Date of most recent previous report 1 ● !!( !! & ! !%  % +  !  3.3 Reporting cycle 1 ● 3% , 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content 1, 33 ● 3.6 Boundary of the report 1 ●   & !&! % !!)!!! 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 1 ● %!)! !!, Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability 3.8 1 ● from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 1 ●  !+23%2011 3.10 Restatement of information provided in earlier reports 1 ● Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 3.11 1 ● scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI Content Index 84 90 ● Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3.13 82 83 ● assurance for the report Governance ( GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level %!)(% & 4.1 Corporate governance 6.2 20 21 ●     & Explanation of whether the chairman of the board also holds 4.2 6.2 20 21 ● the executive officer position .4/ !!   &% ' %    %$! ! 4.3 Board of directors organization 6.2 20 21 ● (! %, ! !!'! !&! % 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 6.2 22 ● recommendations or direction to the highest governance body &, Linkage between compensation for BOD members and      '(  &              % !  4.5 6.2 22 ● executives and the business results   !                $     4.6 Process in place for BOD to ensure conflicts of interests are avoided 6.2 22 ●                     #   #       $ $  $ Process for determining the qualifications and expertise 4.7 of the BOD members for guiding the corporate strategy 6.2 22 ● Disclaimer:        !      #        #   ! & on economic, environmental, and social topics           , +)**$  !          !   4.8 Management principles 18 18 ●       $ Procedures of BOD for overseeing the company’s identification 4.9 and management of economic, environmental, and social 22, 75 22, 75 ● performances The content of Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2010' meet all the criteria to qualify for GRI-G3 Application levell A and this was assured by an independent assurance provider. (The + mark in the A+ means that the application level was assured by a third party.) 086 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 087 Stakeholder Management Appendix GRI G3 Guidelines (● Reported, ◐ Partially reported, ○ Not reported, N/A) Governance GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5, 6.5.4 75 ● Process for evaluation the BOD’s own performance, particularly Public water 4.10 22, 75 22, 75 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5, 6.5.4 N/A with respect to economic, environmental and social performance service only Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Not use 4.11 23 23 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5, 6.5.4 N/A principle is addressed by the company recycled water Externally developed economic, environmental, and social Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 6.5, 6.5.6 No applicable N/A 4.12 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the company 6.2 77, 81 ● lands owned subscribes or endorses protected areas Memberships in associations and/or national/international ● Description of significant impacts of activities, products, 4.13 6.2 91 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 6.5, 6.5.6 No applicable N/A advocacy organizations EN12 biodiversity value outside protected areas lands owned 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the company 6.2 30 ● No applicable N/A Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5, 6.5.6 4.15 6.2 30 ● lands owned whom to engage Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts N/A 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 6.2 31 ● EN14 6.5, 6.5.6 Not applicable on biodiversity Key issues and concerns that have been raised through Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 4.17 stakeholder engagement, and how the company has responded 6.2 31 ● EN15 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of 6.5, 6.5.6 Not applicable N/A to those key issues and concerns extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5, 6.5.5 75 ● Disclosure on Management Approach Economic EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5, 6.5.5 In the pipeline ○ EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 6.5, 6.5.5 In the pipeline ○ GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 6.5, 6.5.3 Not applicable N/A EC Disclosure on Management Approach 46 47 ● EN20 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions by type and weight 6.5, 6.5.3 Not applicable N/A 6.8, 6.8.3, EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 48 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5, 6.5.3 75 ● 6.87, 6.89 No classification Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5, 6.5.3 ◐ EC2 6.5.5 74 79 ● available the company’s activities due to climate change No spills EC3 Coverage of the company’s defined benefit plan oblications 60 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5, 6.5.3 N/A occurred No subsidies EC4 Financial assistance received from government N/A Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed received EN24 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, 6.5, 6.5.3 Not applicable N/A Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EC5 6.4.4, 6.8 57 ● local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water 6.5, 6.5.4, Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based 6.6.6, 6.8, EN25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting 6.5.6 Not applicable N/A EC6 77 ● suppliers at significant locations of operation 6.8.5, 6.8.7 organization’s discharges of water and runoff Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management 6.8, 6.8.5, Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and 6.5, 6.5.4, EC7 54, 57 ● EN26 78 79 ● hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 6.8.7 services, and extent of impact mitigation 6.6.6, 6.7.5 Development and impact of infrastructure investments 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials 6.5, 6.5.4, EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit through 6.8.4, 6.8.5, 63 71 ● EN27 Not applicable N/A that are reclaimed by category 6.7.5 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of 6.3.9, 6.6.6, EN28 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental 6.5 75 ● Understanding and describing significant indirect economic 6.6.7, 6.7.8, 6.8, ● EC9 laws and regulations impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 54, 57, 65 71 (including the scope of impact) 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and 6.5, 6.5.4, EN29 other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, 78 ● 6.6.6 and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 76 ● Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level EN Disclosure on Management Approach 72 73, 75 -76 ● Disclosure on Management Approach Social : Labor Practices and Decent Work EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5, 6.5.4 76 ● GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5, 6.5.4 76 ● LA Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2, 6.3.10, 6.4 52 -57 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 6.5, 6.5.4 75 ● Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, 6.4, 6.4.3 No data by ◐ LA1 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 6.5, 6.5.4 75 ● and region region available EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 6.5, 6.5.4 No data available ◐ Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, 6.4, 6.4.3 LA2 54 ● Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based and region EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a 6.5, 6.5.4 No data available ◐ Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 6.4, 6.4.3, LA3 54 ● result of these initiatives temporary or part-time employees, by major operations 6.4.4 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leaves, by gender 60 ● EN7 6.5, 6.5.4 No data available ◐ reductions achieved Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, LA4 61 ● agreements 6.4.5, 6.3.10 088 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 089 Stakeholder Management Appendix GRI G3 Guidelines (● Reported, ◐ Partially reported, ○ Not reported, N/A) GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level Disclosure on Management Approach Social : Society Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, 6.4, 6.4.3, 61 ● LA5 GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level including whether it is specified in collective agreements 6.4.4, 6.4.5 SO Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2, 6.6, 6.8 26 29, 62 63 ● Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint LA6 management-worker health and safety committees that help 6.4, 6.4.6 Not relevant ○ Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, SO1 64 65, 75 ● monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs of operations on communities 6.8.7, 6.6.7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks LA7 6.4, 6.4.6 60 ● SO2 6.6, 6.6.3 28 ● and number of work-related fatalities by region related to corruption Support programs in place to assist workforce members, 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption LA8 60 ● SO3 6.6, 6.6.3 27 ● their families, or community members regarding serious diseases 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.8 policies and procedures Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 6.6, 6.6.3 26 ● LA9 6.4, 6.4.6 60 ● trade unions Public policy positions and participation in public policy development 6.6, 6.6.4, SO5 28 ● Average hours of training per year per employee by and lobbying (prohibition on political donations) 6.8.3 LA10 6.4, 6.4.7 27, 56 ● employee category Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties 6.6, 6.6.4, SO6 28 ● Lifelong learning programs that support the continued employability 6.4, 6.4.7, and politicians 6.8.3 LA11 60 ● of employees and assist them in managing career endings 6.8.5 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 6.6, 6.6.5, SO7 27 ● Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career anti-trust, and monopoly practices 6.6.7 LA12 6.4, 6.4.7 58 ● development reviews Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 6.6, 6.6.7, SO8 27 ● No specific sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.8.7 LA13 Composition of BOD and breakdown of employees 6.3.7, 6.3.10, classification ◐ Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.4, 6.4.3 SO9 75 ● available on local communities 6.8.7, 6.6.7 6.3.7, 6.3.10, Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations 6.3.9, 6.8, LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 57 ● 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 S010 with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local 6.8.5, 6.8.7, Not relevant ○ communities 6.6.7 Disclosure on Management Approach Social : Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Social: Product Responsibility GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level HR Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2, 6.2 52 53, 60 61 ● GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level Percentage of significant investment agreements that include human 6.3, 6.3.3, PR Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2, 6.6, 6.7 38 41 ● HR1 No data available ◐ rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 6.3.5, 6.6.6 6.3.9, 6.6.6, Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, PR1 Customer health and safety policies 6.7, 6.7.4, 78 79 ● HR2 No data available ○ 6.7.5 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken 6.4.3, 6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 6.3.9, 6.6.6, HR3 6.3, 6.3.5 27 ● PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of 6.7, 6.7.4, Not applicable N/A concerning aspects of human rights products and services 6.7.5 6.3, 6.3.6,6.3.7, HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 57 ● 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 11, 78 ● 6.2, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, HR5 Actions taken to support the right to exercise freedom of 61 ● 6.7.6, 6.7.9 6.3.5, 6.3.8, association and collective bargaining 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 6.7, 6.7.3, PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 41 ● Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, HR6 81 ● labeling 6.7.6, 6.7.9 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10 6.7, 6.7.4, Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced 6.3, 6.3.3, PR5 Customer satisfaction policies and procedures 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 40 42 ● HR7 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 81 ● 6.7.8, 6.7.9 of forced or compulsory labor 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes 6.7, 6.7.3, Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s 6.3, 6.3.5, HR8 26 ● PR6 related to marketing communications, including advertising, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 41 ● policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights 6.4.3, 6.6.6 promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, HR9 75 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 6.7, 6.7.3, people and actions taken 6.3.8, 6.6.7 PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 41 ● Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship HR10 27 ● to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches 6.7, 6.7.7 28 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and PR8 ● HR11 26 ● of customer privacy and losses of customer data resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and PR9 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and 6.7, 6.7.6 41 ● services 090 Company profile Sustainability Leadership 091 Stakeholder Management Appendix GRI G3 Guidelines Associations & Memberships (● Reported, ◐ Partially reported, ○ Not reported, N/A) Financial Services Sector Supplement No. Organization No. Organization GRI Index No. GRI Index Details ISO 26000 Page & Remarks Reporting Level 1 Financial Security Agency 15 21st Century Finance Vision Forum Policies with specific environmental and social components 2 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry 16 Federation of Korean Industries FS1 77 ● applied to business lines 3 Korea Listed Companies Association 17 Korea Management Association Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and FS2 75 ● 4 Korea Capital Market Institute 18 Korean Securities Association social risks in business lines Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and 5 International Financial Center 19 Korea Securities Law Association FS3 compliance with environmental and social requirements included 78 79 ● 6 World Economic Forum 20 Center for Financial Law of Seoul National in agreements or transactions University 7 Global Finance Forum Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement 8 Institute of Global Economics 21 Internal Auditor’s Society of Korea Listed FS4 the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied 26, 79 ● to business lines 9 Korea Economic Research Institute Companies Association Interactions with clients/investors/business partners regarding 10 Korea International Finance Association 22 Financial Securities Forum FS5 79 ● environmental and social risks and opportunities 11 The Korean Financial Engineering Society 23 Financial Information Security Council Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, FS6 10 ● 12 Korea Employers Federation 24 Infomation Sharing & Analysis Center (ISAC) size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver 13 Korea Money & Finance Association 25 International Swaps and Desivatives FS7 a specific social benefit for each business line broken down 78 79 ● 14 Seoul IB Forum Association(ISDA) by purpose Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver FS8 a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken 78 79 ● down by purpose Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of FS9 65, 75 ● environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s FS10 portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted Not applicable ○ on environmental or social issues Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental FS11 No data available ◐ or social screening Feedback Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for share FS12 over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares Not applicable ○ or advises on voting Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged FS13 Not applicable ○ areas by type Feedback • Daewoo Securities seeks to collect and reflect the value opinions of our Initiatives to improve access to financial services stakeholders on the its third issue of sustainability report. Your invaluable opinions and FS14 51 ● for disadvantaged people suggestions shall be reflected in the future sustainability management activities and reports FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 41 ● of Daewoo Securities. We deeply appreciate your time and interest. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary Not applicable ○ 1. Which of the following stakeholder groups do you belong to? □ Customers □ Shareholders & Investors □ Employees □ Local Communities □ Environmental NGO □ Business Partners □ None above ( ) 2. Which of the following sections do you find is most interesting? (open to multiple choices) □ About this report □ Sustainability Management □ Customers □ Shareholders/ Investors □ Talent Management □ Local Communities □ Green Management 3. Which of the following sections do you find requires improvements? (open to multiple choices) Cut along the dotted lines. □ About this report □ Sustainability Management □ Customers □ Shareholders/ Investors □ Talent Management □ Local Communities □ Green Management 4. Feel free to state your opinions regarding the company’s sustainability management activities and the overall structure and content of this report. Designed by_TOBE PARTNERS Investor Relations Team, Business Management Department 34-3, Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-716, Korea TEL : +82-2-768-2115 I FAX : +82-2-768-2119 • Contact Points Questions or comments on this report can be referred to Investor Relations Team, Business Sender Management Department 34-3, Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-716, Korea TEL : +82-2-768-2115 FAX : +82-2-768-2119 Cut along the dotted lines. email : sustain@dwsec.com website : http://www.bestez.com/ir/DAEWOO
