KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2 0 11 Overview of the Konica Minolta Group Business Companies Common Function Companies Companies entrusted with the authority Companies that perform centralized necessary to execute business activities Group-wide functions in their field of expertise Konica Minolta Technology Center, Inc. Konica Minolta Business Technologies, Inc. Provides services to group companies including R&D, Manufacturing and sale of customized product design and management of multi-functional peripherals intellectual property assets (MFPs), printers, and equipment for production print systems and graphic Konica Minolta Business Expert, Inc. arts, and providing related Provides various shared services for the Group in the solution services fields of engineering, logistics, environment, safety and others Konica Minolta Opto, Inc. Management Philosophy Manufacturing and sale of The creation of new value optical products (pickup lenses, etc.) and electronic Affiliates Managed by materials (TAC films, etc.) the Holding Company Konica Minolta Companies that strive to cultivate business with Holdings, Inc. the support of the holding company Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc. Konica Minolta IJ Technologies, Inc. Manufacturing and sale of consumables and Manufacturing and sale of inkjet equipment for healthcare printheads, inks and textile printers systems for industrial use Konica Minolta Sensing, Inc. Konica Minolta Planetarium Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and sale of Manufacturing and sale of measuring instruments for planetarium systems, show industrial and healthcare contents production and applications sales, construction of planetariums and facility management services Holding Company: Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc. As a holding company, drafts and implements group management strategies, as well as supervising, managing and coordinating group management. Company name Consolidated Sales Breakdown of Sales by Business Segment Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc. Consolidated Sales Other 3% (Billions of yen) Head office 1,200 Healthcare 1-6-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, 1,027.6 1,071.6 11% Tokyo, Japan 947.8 800 Business 804.5 778.0 President and CEO Optics Technologies Masatoshi Matsuzaki 17% 69% Fiscal Established 400 2010 December 22, 1936 Paid-in capital 0 37,519 million yen 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) Note: Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc. transferred its graphic Fiscal year-end imaging business to Konica Minolta Business Technologies, Inc. March 31 Consolidated Operating Income/ on October 1, 2010. The results of the Healthcare Business for Operating Income Ratio fiscal 2010 include those of the graphic imaging business for the first half. Consolidated Operating Income Operating Income Ratio (Billions of yen) （%） 120 119.6 15 Breakdown of Sales by Region 104.0 Other 8% 11.2 80 10.1 10 Asia (excluding Japan) Overview of the Group 17％ Japan 28％ The Konica Minolta Group consists of Konica 56.3 44.0 40.0 Fiscal Minolta Holdings, 89 consolidated 40 5 5.9 5.5 subsidiaries, 17 non-consolidated subsidiaries, 5.1 2010 and 5 affiliated companies. Group companies Europe 28％ USA 19％ are located in 35 different countries. 0 0 (As of March 31, 2011) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 1 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Editorial Policy Contents The Konica Minolta CSR Report is published to Overview of the Konica Minolta Group 1 inform all its stakeholders of the Group’s corporate social responsibility initiatives. This report focuses Editorial Policy/Contents 2 on topics of social significance and high priority to Message from the President 3 Konica Minolta and discusses the Group’s basic Konica Minolta’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 5 concept, specific efforts and achievements with respect to those topics. Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy 7 This year's Special Feature articles focus on the Green Products Certification System, which Special Features 1 constitutes the heart of Konica Minolta's approach to environmental responsibility, and on healthcare, Reducing Environmental 9 a field in which Konica Minolta leverages the Impact in Every Phase of collaboration of group companies. The reports on the Business environmental initiatives and initiatives for 2 different stakeholders describe issues that are addressed by regular topical meetings in areas Leveraging Core Technologies 13 such as environment and quality, primarily those to Contribute to the Future of that marked significant progress in fiscal 2010. Human Health and Healthcare To promote communication with stakeholders around the world, this report is published in five languages: Japanese, English, Chinese, German, For the Global Environment 17 and French. (2010 Progress on Medium-Term Environmental Plan) Preventing Global Warming 19 Report Boundary Supporting a Recycling-Oriented Society 20 This report covers the entire Konica Minolta Group, including Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc., the Group’s Reducing the Risk of Chemical Substances 21 business companies and common function companies, Fiscal 2010 Environmental Data Summary 22 and its consolidated affiliates. When data is given on a CLOSE UP specific subset of companies, the boundary is separately Reuse and Recycling of MFPs 23 indicated. In this report, “Konica Minolta” refers to the Konica Minolta Group. Reporting Period Earning the Confidence of Customers 25 In principle, the report covers activities from April 1, 2010 Improving Product Quality and Safety 26 to March 31, 2011. Some sections may include information on earlier initiatives or more recent activities. In this Strengthening the Ability to Provide 28 report, “fiscal 2010” refers to the fiscal year starting April 1, Solutions to Customers 2010 and ending March 31, 2011. Publication Date Fulfilling Social Responsibilities 31 September 2011 with Business Partners (Next report: scheduled for August 2012; previous report: August 2010) Promoting CSR Procurement Throughout 32 the Supply Chain Guidelines Observed in Preparation of the Report Growing Together with Our 33 The CSR Report, which consists of the booklet and website pages, was created with reference to the Global Employees Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006. The report meets application level B+. Personnel Training and Effective Utilization of Skills 34 Health and Safety at Work and Support for 36 About the Website Work-Life Balance Konica Minolta maintains a website that provides detailed information on its CSR activities. http://konicaminolta.com/about/csr Contributing to Society 37 The Web icon indicates that more information on a given topic is available on the website. Disclaimer Management System 39 In addition to facts about past or present circumstances, this report contains descriptions of the Group’s current plans and projections for the future. These descriptions are based on information that is currently Expert Opinion of Konica Minolta’s CSR Report 41 available and have been deemed reasonable based on the Group’s current status. The Group’s actual performance could differ from its External Assurance 42 predictions due to future changes in the business environment. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 2 Message from the President Building a Company That is Valued by People around the World Fulfilling a necessary role our goals for growth, in April 2011 we launched our new, three-year medium term business plan, called “G Plan 2013.” in a changing world This plan lays out three basic strategies: expanding the The world today is witnessing a transformation of attitudes scale of operations by achieving growth, changing into a and values in response to a variety of situations. Some global company, and increasing the recognition of the examples are the growing severity of global environmental Konica Minolta brand. problems, the emergence of issues relating to energy, and Konica Minolta is actively moving into sectors where it changes in global markets accompanying the rapid growth can meet the expectations of society using its core of newly developing countries. Against this backdrop of technologies. In order to achieve further growth and to change on a global scale, the role that companies are continue to expand in size, the Group is entering the new expected to play is also changing significantly. Corporations businesses of energy saving and energy creation, while are required to predict the impact of these changes and continuing to strengthen and expand its existing respond promptly. businesses. True to our management philosophy of the creation of Specifically, we aim to make a broad contribution to new value, we aim to maintain strong growth to ensure that society by commercializing LED and organic light emitting Konica Minolta is a company essential to society and diode (OLED) lighting. In response to changing market worthy of its support. The Group has been undertaking a conditions, we are also striving to provide products and variety of challenges in order to transform social changes services to meet the challenges in various areas, including into opportunities for advancement. emerging markets. Nonetheless, the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011 was far beyond anything we had imagined. Many of Konica Minolta’s customers and G PLAN 2013 Policy business partners suffered extensive damage. I would like to offer my sincere condolences to everyone who was 1. Expanding the scale of operations affected by the earthquake. At Konica Minolta, we are by achieving growth acutely aware of our responsibility to do all we can to contribute to the recovery. It is especially at times like this 2. Changing into a “Global Company” that all of our professionals think about what we can do as a company, and act to achieve it. This will in turn 3. Increasing the recognition of strengthen our relationship with our customers, business the Konica Minolta brand partners and society as a whole, and earn greater trust. Although direct damage to Konica Minolta Group facilities was minor, procurement of materials and the future of electricity supply remain uncertain. These factors will have an unavoidable impact. By anticipating future Putting CSR activities on trends, we will seek ways to minimize the impact of these factors on business operations and take a range of a business footing measures to fulfill our responsibility to maintain the supply To ensure that Konica Minolta remains a company essential of our products. to society and worthy of its support, it is imperative that, while achieving growth, we also fulfill our various social responsibilities and contribute to society. New medium term Among the first of these responsibilities is responding to business plan launched global environmental issues. Konica Minolta works to While facing this unexpected situation, Konica Minolta’s reduce the environmental impact of its business activities commitment to growth remains unchanged. To achieve at every stage. In fiscal 2009, we established our long-term 3 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 environmental vision, “Eco Vision 2050,” and the Minolta a truly global company that is valued by people Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015 to drive progress around the world. on it, setting targets to be met and priority measures. Then from fiscal 2011, we introduced the Green Products Certification System to promote the creation of environmentally responsible products as one of the mechanisms to support the achievement of our vision. In addition to these environmental initiatives, ensuring Masatoshi Matsuzaki President and CEO product quality is indispensable for companies involved in Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc. manufacturing. Product quality is an important element in corporate reliability and social responsibility, as well as in customer satisfaction, so Konica Minolta does its utmost to prevent quality problems. Still, to be prepared for the unlikely event that a quality problem arises, we have established a system to ensure that top management can assess the situation quickly and respond appropriately in a timely manner. Going beyond Konica Minolta itself, we have expanded our perspective to encompass our entire supply chain, and are undertaking “CSR procurement” initiatives with our business partners to address environmental and social issues. Changing into a truly global company Konica Minolta currently has operations in some 40 countries around the world, and 70% of our sales are outside Japan. Among the basic strategies set out by the G Plan 2013 is the goal of transition from a company that simply has operations in countries around the world to a truly global company that genuinely thinks and acts globally. To realize this, we are working to develop human resources who can play a role around the world with a global perspective. As part of this, the company began its Global Executive Program in fiscal 2010 to develop executives and young managers from Group companies worldwide. Furthermore, the Group has put forward the worldwide action slogan “simply BOLD” to further promote a corporate culture that will encourage each employee to develop a confident and ambitious mindset. Through these initiatives, we aim to reconcile global business development with the delegation of authority to local operations. In this way, Konica Minolta will achieve optimization as a single company that operates globally. Through these and other efforts, we aim to make Konica KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 4 Konica Minolta’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake We would like to offer our sincere condolences to everyone who was affected by the massive earthquake in eastern Japan. To support the fastest possible recovery, Konica Minolta is doing all it can to contribute through its corporate activities to reconstruction in areas affected by the disaster. Konica Minolta’s Response On March 11, 2011, the day of the earthquake, Konica Minolta established a Disaster Response Headquarters ▼ P40 to monitor the situation, and has been providing cooperation and support to customers and others in the disaster areas. (The following describes the situation as of June 22, 2011.) The Situation of the Konica Minolta Group Response to Rolling Blackouts and Employees of the Group in the disaster areas were unhurt. Power Supply Restrictions Konica Minolta has a number of production sites in the Kanto Konica Minolta is helping customers to save electricity and area, a region including Tokyo and nearby prefectures, but cope with planned power outages by providing information none suffered extensive damage. on its website and by other means. There is a possibility that production will be affected by Moreover, in addition to carrying out rigorous power damage experienced by suppliers of parts and materials, as conservation in its business activities, the Group is reducing well as disruption of or limits on power supplies. However, the the amount of power used for production at peak times in the Group will gather information and take proactive steps to summer when power demand is highest. The Group also plans ensure a stable supply of products, and regular provision of to introduce additional measures to reduce electricity use, services. While the Group’s sales and distribution sites in the including closing sites on a rotating basis. Tohoku area, the most affected region, were damaged, Konica Minolta is maintaining the operations of its service organization with support from other regions. Assistance for Affected Areas Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc. and other Group companies have will continue to support the smooth restoration of various donated 50 million yen to help people in the disaster areas corporate and social functions. through the Japanese Red Cross Society, while the employees The Group plans to use various Konica Minolta products and of domestic and overseas Group companies have donated services to provide a range of ongoing support activities. approximately 23 million yen through the Red Cross organizations of their respective countries. In addition, the company has donated 410 units of its pulse oximeter “PULSOX-1” medical instrument, among other aid in kind. Konica Minolta Business Solutions Japan Co., Ltd. is also providing its IT support service, IT-Guardians, free of charge to companies and municipalities in the disaster area until the end “PULSOX-1” pulse oximeter which measures oxygen saturation in of March 2012. Through remote support for PC operation and the blood, without the need for by providing antivirus security and data backup, the company blood collection 5 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Impact on Group Companies and Customer Support As described below, each of the business companies in the Group is gathering information while introducing reconstruction measures and offering appropriate support in the affected areas. Konica Minolta Business Technologies, Inc. and its affiliates Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc. and its affiliates Response to Customers Response to Customers Some of the sites of the sales company Konica Minolta Konica Minolta Healthcare Inc., a sales company in Japan, Business Solutions Japan Co., Ltd. were damaged, but the continues to provide support for the early recovery of hospitals company is maintaining the operations of its service and clinics in the affected areas. organization with support from other regions. In the weeks following the earthquake, the company Immediately after the earthquake, the company’s head finished checking the situation of customers, and ensured that office in Tokyo established a Disaster Response Headquarters branches and sales offices in the affected areas were able to and began to work in conjunction with the Tohoku branch in provide substitute equipment or replacement parts as Sendai, the largest city hit by the earthquake. necessary at any time. First, the company confirmed the situation of its customers In addition, in late March, personnel were added from and distributors by checking Remote Care connection status other regions to provide technical service support. People and by phone when needed, and established a special from the localities who are familiar with the geography of the customer help center for inquiries by phone and email. In affected areas were selected, in order to ensure a rapid addition, the company repaired equipment damaged in the response. earthquake at a special rate or provided substitutes for Supply of Products non-repairable machines to help businesses get back to work Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic’s equipment and quickly in the areas affected. consumable supplies are produced outside the affected areas, Supply of Products so there has been no significant impact at this time. Most of Konica Minolta Business Technologies’ equipment is manufactured in China, while consumable supplies are produced outside the affected areas, so there has been no Konica Minolta Sensing, Inc. significant impact at this time. A sales site was damaged, but there has been no major impact on business continuity. The company will continue to monitor the situation of its customers and provide repairs, while Konica Minolta Opto, Inc. and its aff iliates working to ensure a stable supply of products and regular Production and sales sites were unaffected, and there has been provision of services. no major impact on business continuity. There is a possibility that production will be affected by Konica Minolta Planetarium Co., Ltd. disruptions experienced by suppliers of parts and so on, as well as disruption of or limits on power supplies. However, the The company checked the situation at 86 planetariums with company will ensure that any such impact on its business the company’s equipment that may have been affected by the activities is kept to a minimum and will maintain a stable earthquake. Two were in need of major repair, while 12 were supply of products. found to require minor repairs or adjustment. The checks and investigations of facilities affected have been completed, and the company will provide repairs requested by its customers. Konica Minolta IJ Technologies, Inc. Production and sales sites were unaffected, and there has been no major impact on business continuity. Going forward, the company will work to ensure a stable supply of products and regular provision of services. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 6 Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy Konica Minolta’s CSR activities are based on its Management Philosophy of “The Creation of New Value,” and upon its Charter of Corporate Behavior. The Group strives to live up to the trust and expectations of society by fulfilling its responsibilities to all of its stakeholders and to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. Konica Minolta is signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, the universally accepted principles covering human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The company also has joined the Global Compact Japan Network (GC-JN). The Group’s policy to respect and comply with these and other universal principles is articulated in Konica Minolta Group Guidance for Charter of Corporate Behavior, which is shared globally, helping to ensure Konica Minolta’s compliance with these universal principles P40 . ▼ Management Philosophy The Creation of New Value Konica Minolta Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Corporations, in addition to being economic entities engaged the spirit of this Charter is its own role and responsibility, and in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, should be shall take the initiative to ensure that all directors, officers and beneficial to society at large. For this reason, Konica Minolta employees fully understand the Charter. In addition, the Group shall behave in a socially responsible manner and shall management shall constantly pay attention to the opinions of have all of its directors, officers and employees clearly internal and external parties and shall promote the acknowledge the spirit of this Charter of Corporate Behavior. implementation of effective systems to secure ethical Senior management shall recognize that the fulfillment of corporate behavior. 1. Beneficial and safe products 5. Contribution to society We shall strive to earn the confidence of consumers and clients We shall, with a global perspective, affirmatively make contributions through the development and provision of socially beneficial to society while respecting local customs and cultures. products and services with the utmost consideration for safety. 6. Respect for employees 2. Fair and transparent corporate activities We shall endeavor to make the lives of employees comfortable and We shall, in the pursuit of fair and transparent corporate activities, fulfilling, provide a safe work environment, and respect each comply with laws and social regulations and act in accordance employee’s personality and individuality. with international rules and the articles of incorporation. 7. Responsible actions 3. Communications with society and information disclosure In the event of a violation of the principles of this Charter, in order to We shall communicate with society at large and disclose solve the problem senior management shall investigate the cause corporate information fairly and adequately. of the violation and develop reforms to prevent its recurrence in accordance with corporate compliance procedures. Prompt public 4. Environmental protection disclosure of precise information and an explanation regarding the We shall acknowledge the seriousness of global environmental violation shall be made and responsibility for the violation shall be issues and shall act voluntarily and affirmatively to protect the clarified. Strict and fair disciplinary action shall be taken including environment. with respect to senior management where necessary. Konica Minolta Included in Various Indices as About > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Investor Relations (IR) > Web a Socially Responsible Investment Evaluation of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Konica Minolta Holdings Inc. was ranked in the SAM Silver Class of Konica Minolta Holdings was also named by Canada-based the SAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment by SAM Group Corporate Knights Inc. in January 2011 as one of the Global 100 Holding AG, the internationally leading SRI assessment company, Most Sustainable Corporations in the World. The company has also in February 2011 for the second year in a row. been included by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. and SAM Group in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index, and by UK-based FTSE Group in the FTSE4Good Global Index. Moreover, Konica Minolta Holdings has been included in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) operated by Morningstar Japan K.K. in Japan. (Information as of June 22, 2011) 7 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Konica Minolta’s Responsibilities, by Stakeholder Group Stakeholders Responsibilities to stakeholders Konica Minolta has operations throughout * Providing highly reliable products and the world. It is comprised of separate group services companies in charge of different lines of – Improve product quality, ensure product business to serve different clients. The safety group’s clients in its key lines of business are – Ensure stable operation of products as follows: – Ensure stable supply of products Customers * Business technologies business: general enterprises, * Increasing customer satisfaction printing companies and government agencies – Expand the solutions business * Optics business: Information technology and – Strengthen service and support electronics enterprises * Healthcare business: Hospitals, clinics * Sensing business: Manufacturers and other general enterprises Konica Minolta procures raw materials, parts, * Instituting transparent and fair business and components from different companies practices Business depending on the types of business. Over * Implementing CSR throughout the global Partners 90% of these suppliers are located in Japan, supply chain (human rights, workplace China, and elsewhere in Asia. safety and health, environmental protection, etc.) Konica Minolta has 29,991 shareholders. * Ensuring fair and proper return of profit The breakdown highlights relatively high * Respecting shareholder voting rights ownership by institutional and foreign * Implementing fair and proper disclosure of Shareholders shareholders; foreign shareholders own a financial information and Investors combined stake of 44.4%, while Japanese * Implementing global IR activities financial institutions own 39.6%. (As of the end of March 2011.) Konica Minolta employs 35,204 people * Respecting human rights, eliminating worldwide, with 35% of the workforce discrimination located in Japan, 26% in China and * Respecting diversity elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, 21% in * Fostering and making the most of Employees North and South America, and 18% in personnel Europe. (Figures are based on total regular * Ensuring workplace safety and health employees of consolidated companies, as of the end of March 2011.) Konica Minolta has operations in some 40 * Developing social contribution programs Local and countries across the globe, and acts as a that make the most of the group’s business Global responsible member of every community expertise Communities where it operates. * Implementing activities to address local needs As a manufacturer, Konica Minolta engages * Preventing global warming in various operations that impact the * Supporting a recycling-oriented society environment, for instance generating CO2 * Reducing the risk of chemical substances Global emissions, which contribute to climate * Restoring and preserving biodiversity Environment change, using materials derived from petroleum, which is a dwindling natural resource, and affecting ecosystems in various ways. Web About > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Konica Minolta's CSR Policy KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 8 Special Feature Reducing Environmental Impact 1 in Every Phase of the Business Worldwide, steps are being taken to address today’s increasingly serious environmental problems such as progressive global warming, the depletion of energy resources, and threats to biodiversity. Corporations are also expected to engage in environmental activities from a broader perspective. Recognizing this, Konica Minolta does not limit its environmental efforts to the manufacturing process alone. At every level of its business activities, whether product development, procurement, production, distribution or sales, the Group works to reduce its impact on the environment. Green Products Certif ication System Product development Production Distribution Procurement Environmentally & Product Development of environmentally CSR Procurement responsible Sales usage responsible production activities products Green Marketing * Reduction of CO2 emissions * Energy-saving products * Product assessment * Procurement taking into * Promotion of modal shift account human rights, * Reduction of waste * Reduced use of * Energy-saving design labor standards, safety discharged externally and * Introduction of eco-cars consumables and and health, ethics and final disposal rate and promotion of improved durability * Small, lightweight product design the environment * Reduction of atmospheric eco-driving VOC emissions * Collection and recycling * Reduction of material inputs and number of parts of used products Green Factory Certification System Web About > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environment Plan: Objectives and Efforts > Green Products Certification System 9 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 “We are undertaking business-focused environmental initiatives with an emphasis on creating environmentally responsible products.” Takenori Takahashi Senior Manager Environment & Safety Management Group Corporation Social Responsibility Division Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc. Taking a Long-term Perspective on has three levels based on the degree to which a product Environmental Initiatives minimizes environmental impact, with “Sustainable Products” For companies involved in manufacturing, the challenge of being the highest level. The certification standard for minimizing the environmental impact of products is becoming Sustainable Products requires that they not only embody more and more pressing. To fulfill its responsibilities, Konica superior environmental performance not typically achieved by Minolta established its Eco Vision 2050, and at the same time, earlier products, but that they also incorporate original set priority themes and specific targets in its Medium-Term technology. While we should seek to reduce the environmental Environmental Plan 2015 P17 . Furthermore, to achieve ▼ impact of all our products as a matter of course, by setting a these targets, the Group is working to establish unique systems very challenging certification level, we seek to promote across the product life cycle, including product development, innovation and contribute more proactively to sustainability. procurement, production, sales, and use. In sales and services, Konica Minolta is promoting Green Marketing. There is no certification system for this, but our Reducing Environmental Impact across the Entire business companies and sales companies around the world Product Life Cycle will plan their own community-based environmental activities, In January 2010, Konica Minolta introduced the Green Factory and start putting them into operation from July 2011. Certification System for comprehensive evaluation of the At Konica Minolta, all employees—from product environmental activities of its production sites P11 . From ▼ development, procurement, production and sales—are the first year of its introduction, many sites met the targets involved in business-based environmental activities. Through ahead of schedule and are achieving steady gains. these efforts, the Group aims to reduce the environmental In addition, the new Green Products Certification System impact across the entire life cycle of its products. was started in July 2011 P12 . This system represents the ▼ core of Konica Minolta’s environmental activities. The system KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 10 Special Feature Reducing Environmental Impact in Every Phase of the Business 1 Enhancing the Green Factory Certification System Adding New Certification Criteria to Enhance Environmental Activities at Production Sites In January 2010, Konica Minolta launched its unique Green requires that sites follow the guidelines set for management of Factory Certification System for comprehensive evaluation of soil contamination risk as one aspect of reducing chemical risks. the environmental activities of its production sites. This system * A single business unit is an organization engaged in the same production activities even across different locations. A single location may include several has two levels of targets. The Level 1 targets for fiscal 2011 are business units. preliminary goals representing milestones on the way to the Guidelines for Biodiversity Preservation (Excerpt) Level 2 targets, which are to be achieved by fiscal 2015. In fiscal Category Items for monitoring 2010, out of 23 business units,* 12 units achieved Level 1 (11 in Consideration of Reduction targets are set for total water intake, or for water Japan and one in China). water resources used on site, and reduction measures are implemented. In order to further strengthen environmental activities, Checks are in place to determine the impact of wastewater Konica Minolta added two new items to the Level 2 criteria in Consideration of emitted into public water areas on ecosystems, such as wastewater aquatic habitats. April 2011. One of these requires that sites implement measures to restore and preserve biodiversity, according to guidelines set Proper management Invasive alien species that are likely to have a negative for management of water resources and wastewater, and of greenery at impact on ecosystems are not planted or sown on the factories plant’s premises. proper management of greenery at factory sites. The other Green Factory Certification Standards Newly added items Objectives Management indicators Level 1 Level 2 Preventing global warming CO2 emissions (per unit of production* 1 ) 12% reduction* 2 20% reduction* 2 Waste discharged externally 30% reduction* 2 50% reduction* 2 Zero waste (per unit of sales) Supporting activities Final disposal rate of total waste 0.5% or less 0.5% or less a recycling-oriented society Petroleum-based resource waste 30% reduction* 2 50% reduction* 2 (per unit of sales) Atmospheric emissions of volatile organic Achievement of fiscal 2011 targets for Achievement of fiscal 2015 targets for each site in accordance with each site in accordance with Reducing the risks compounds (VOCs) Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015 Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015 of chemical substances Guidelines for managing soil contamination risk — Consistent with guidelines Restoring and Guidelines for biodiversity preservation (consideration of water resources and wastewater, and — Consistent with guidelines preserving biodiversity proper management of greenery at factories) Guideline-based activities Achievement rate of implemented items 70% or more 90% or more *1 Per unit of production: Environmental impact in terms of production output or production volume. *2 The base year is fiscal 2005. Based on this (base year) figure, standards tailored to factory characteristics are established. Moving on toward Level 2 Certification We succeeded with Level 1 because everyone got involved. When it comes to environmental activities, I always say, “If we’re going to do this, we should aim to be the best.” With this mindset, we adopted the “3C” slogan for our activities, which stands for “Challenge, Create, and Continue.” We focused our efforts on eliminating waste based on the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle). As a result, we became the first in the Group to achieve Green Factory Level 1. Everyone worked together to tackle some very difficult issues, and the recognition our team earned for its hard work was very gratifying. As we aim for Level 2, in addition more intensive implementation of the 3Rs, we intend to introduce Izumi Osawa renewable energy and develop approaches to restoring and preserving biodiversity that honor the President principle of harmony with nature. Konica Minolta Supplies Manufacturing Co., Ltd. 11 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Introducing the Green Products Certification System Defining Evaluation Standards for the Environmental Performance of Products, and Promoting the Development of Environmentally Responsible Products Konica Minolta introduced a product assessment system in 1992 The targets are basically set as early as the product planning in order to develop and provide environmentally responsible stage. Not only must the product meet standards for products. To further strengthen this effort, the Group has environmental performance, it must also fulfill requirements introduced the Green Products Certification System, a unique such as being produced at a Green Factory certified plant, system for evaluating products with superior environmental compliance with environment-related regulations, and performance that went into full operation in July 2011. management in accordance with the Group’s CSR procurement Under this system, standards are set for each of the plan P32 . ▼ different businesses and product characteristics, and products The environmental performance of certified products will that meet these standards are certified at one of three levels. be made public in product catalogs and websites. Green Products Certification System Certification standards (excerpts) Products that contribute to Sustainable Products Preventing global warming realizing a sustainable society (SP) * Reduce CO2 emissions from product usage * Reduce CO2 emissions throughout product life cycle Products that achieve the Supporting a recycling-oriented society Green Products Plus industry’s top environmental * Reduce petroleum-based resource usage (GPplus) performance * Make products smaller and lighter * Increase the operating life of products Products that achieve top-level Green Products * Promote the use of re-used and recycled materials environmental performance in the industry (GP) * Promote the use of plant-based materials * Reduce rare metals usage Environmentally responsible Reducing the risks from chemical substances products based on product assessment * Restrict the use of hazardous chemical substances Certification requirements Restoring and preserving biodiversity * Use biological resources in a sustainable manner Management in Production at Compliance with accordance with the a Green Factory environment-related CSR procurement plan certified plant regulations Manufacturing process innovation Example of Certified Products REGIUS Σ desktop CR Certified as the First Green Product Plus The REGIUS Σ desktop CR (computed radiography) from Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc., and the AeroDR cassette digital radiography detector ▼P15 were recognized as the first Green Products Plus. REGIUS Σ Environmental performance features of REGIUS Σ Lowest Weight CR (approx. 28kg) * The world’s lightest*1 cassette CR system at 28 kg Power consumption is less than one tenth of * Power consumption at 100VA, less than 1/10 that of a film processor prior models. * Compact, energy-saving design reduces CO2 Smallest carbon footprint CO2 emissions emissions by 64% over the product life cycle reduced by more than 64% (Calculated at lifecycle, compared to our conventional CR) *1 As of April 27, 2011 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 12 特集 Special Leveraging Core Technologies to 22 Feature Contribute to the Future of Human Health and Healthcare Since Konica Minolta launched Japan’s first X-ray film in 1933, the Konica Minolta Group has consistently offered new value in the field of medical diagnostics and other healthcare fields. Today, with the increasing importance of accurate medical diagnosis, Group companies are combining their unique technical strengths to develop and provide products and services that make a real difference in the world of healthcare. Konica Minolta Sensing, Inc. * Pulse oximeters * Jaundice meters For clinics Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc. Optics * Digital X-ray diagnostic image readers * Digital mammography systems * Diagnostic ultrasound systems Konica Minolta * Diagnostic medicines and inspection Technology Core apparatuses Imaging Materials technologies Center, Inc. Nanofabrication For Konica Minolta Opto, Inc. hospitals * Sensitive in vitro diagnostic equipment * Fluorospectrometer cancer diagnostic equipment 13 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 “As we focus on facilitating better healthcare, we are working group-wide to create products and services that make good healthcare accessible to everyone.” Kunihiro Koshizuka Director, General Manager, R&D Headquarters Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc. Making Medical Diagnosis Easier on Everyone aim to contribute to cooperation in regional healthcare, In recent years, values in the medical world have been enhanced quality of healthcare in developing countries, and significantly changing. There is a greater emphasis than ever more efficient diagnosis. before on early detection and prevention of disease, while control of medical costs and the correction of disparities in Expanding the Scope of Our Contribution through access to good healthcare are widely viewed as global Synergy Between Group Companies challenges. In addition, there is growing awareness in the In addition to Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Konica medical field of safety and environmental issues. Minolta Opto, Inc., with its advanced optics and Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc. has been nano-fabrication technologies, and Konica Minolta Sensing, developing products that make the most of its core Inc., which has a wide range of measurement technologies, are technologies in order to meet these healthcare challenges. using their respective strengths to develop products that meet Since the introduction of Japan’s first X-ray film, the company the needs of the medical sector. Moreover, Konica Minolta has fostered its core technologies in the course of providing a Technology Center, Inc., a common function company that large number of diagnostic imaging system products. The handles R&D in basic and new technologies, is pursuing company boasts sensitive detection material technologies and research in life sciences. image processing technologies that are at the top of their class In order to respond to a variety of challenges in the in the world, and their use has expanded greatly with the healthcare field in a more effective and broad-reaching progress of digitalization. manner, we are working to further strengthen the cooperation Behind the development of products that use these between these companies. technologies lies our desire to protect the lives of as many In the digital X-ray diagnostic imaging field, where we are people as possible. To achieve this, we must create new focusing our effort, further technological advances are driving diagnostic value using advanced technologies, and at the a rapid evolution from structural images to functional images, same time, provide it in a form that can benefit many people and to an era of molecular imaging. At Konica Minolta, we are safely and inexpensively. In addition, by establishing remote integrating the core technologies of our group companies at a diagnosis and interpretation support systems utilizing IT, we high level, and will capitalize on the synergies of cross-sector R&D to create new solutions for medical professionals and their patients. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 14 Special Feature Leveraging Core Technologies to Contribute to the Future of Human Health and Healthcare 2 Technology & Products Konica Minolta’s Medical Diagnostic Equipment Meets a Range of Challenges Imaging Materials Example: Diagnostic Radiography AeroDR Digital Radiography System Contributes to Faster, More Efficient Diagnosis Challenges Konica Minolta’s solution * Show the results immediately * Displays images instantly on the monitor * Scan freely from any angle * Improves flexibility with wireless transmission and * Reduce exposure to radiation reduced weight * Reduces radiation exposure to about half that of CR The world of radiography has witnessed a change from requires. In addition, use of a conventional film X-rays, to digitization with computed new type of battery enables fast radiography (CR). Also attracting attention today is digital charging so that a full charge radiography (DR). DR acquires images directly with an flat takes just 30 minutes. panel detector (FPD), so they are viewable immediately after * As of April 20, 2011. Including battery. scanning. However, conventional DR equipment is heavy, and AeroDR the power and data transmission cables required have made usability an issue. Differences Between the Imaging Processes In March 2011, Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc. solved X-ray film CR DR these issues with the release of the AeroDR Digital Radiography Intensifying screen/film Imaging plate FPD System. Incorporating many weight-saving innovations, the DR Carry by hand Carry by hand system is the world’s lightest* at 2.9 kg, and offers wireless data Develop the film Read the imaging plate 1s transmission. Furthermore, fluorescent material using (darkroom) with a dedicated machine proprietary technology ensures that high-quality images can 45 s 25 s be obtained with about half the radiation exposure that CR Processed film Display on a monitor Display on a monitor Optics Example: Homecare Pulse Oximeter Measures Oxygen Saturation in the Blood in Real Time Challenges Konica Minolta’s solution * Reduce the burden of measurement * Measures oxygen levels simply by inserting a f ingertip The pulse oximeter is a device for measuring oxygen saturation prices, as well as some with self-contained memory, in the blood in real time, indicating whether there is a normal contributing to broader use of pulse oximeters. Not only supply of oxygen in the blood. This can be measured without playing a role in respiratory monitoring in operating rooms and blood sampling, simply by exposing the fingertip to light. As a hospital wards, PULSOX is now testing device that is completely non-invasive, the pulse finding a wide range of other oximeter has become indispensable in the medical setting. applications, including Since commercializing the world’s first pulse oximeter with self-management by home oxygen fingertip measurement in 1977, Konica Minolta Sensing, Inc. therapy patients and screening for has worked to develop lighter, more compact types, with lower sleep apnea syndrome. PULSOX-300 15 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Imaging Example: Breast Cancer Screening Mammography CAD System Assists Radiologists in Making a Diagnosis Challenges Konica Minolta’s solution * Early detection of breast cancer * Uses computer processing to help radiologists * Prevention of oversight in analyzing the results interpret mammograms The number of breast cancer patients has been increasing suspicious regions in the image are marked to assist the worldwide in recent years. Mammography (breast X-ray) radiologist with interpretation. devices that can detect early symptoms of breast cancer such *1 Phase contrast technology: A technology that enables sharper imaging using differences in density due to the phase shifts that occur when an X-ray passes as microcalcification have come to be regarded as an effective through an object. diagnostic device for early detection of cancer. *2 CAD: Computer-aided detection. Starting with the launch of the PCM breast X-ray system, Area of suspected mass which was the first in the world to use phase contrast (indicated by solid lines) technology*1, Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic has consistently provided a variety of systems that deliver a full range of functions from scanning to interpretation support. In 2010, the company developed the Neovista I-PACS CAD Type M mammography CAD system. This system detects suspicious regions that could represent breast cancer from Area of suspected patterns in X-ray images, using CAD*2 processing based on Image before display Image displayed with CAD microcalcification cluster proprietary algorithms. With easy button operation, any (indicated by dashed lines) Mammogram Technology for the Future Development of High-sensitivity X-ray Imaging Applying Optical Technologies Devices that Contribute to the Early Detection to the Field of Medical and Life Sciences of Rheumatism and Breast Cancer Konica Minolta Opto develops products for the field of medical and Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic is participating in an life sciences, taking advantage of the optical, nano-fabrication, and industry-university project with the University of Tokyo and image processing technologies it has mastered over many years. The other universities to develop an innovative X-ray imaging company plans to offer high-sensitivity in vitro diagnostic systems on devices that uses the refraction of X-rays (Talbot-Lau system). small chips for blood tests, and systems where devices are implanted This equipment captures images with very high sensitivity by in the body for diagnoses using light. One example of this is the sampling phase shifts in X-rays that pass through the subject, fluorescence and reflectance spectroscopy cancer diagnostic using interference in the diffraction image. This has succeeded equipment currently under joint development. in capturing images of soft tissue such as cartilage, which cannot be visualized with conventional X-rays. It is expected to Optical contribute to the early detection of rheumatism accompanied technologies by cartilage abnormalities, breast cancer, and other disorders. Konica Minolta Three types of data can be obtained with one shot, including Image processing Opto, Inc. Device production images similar to conventional X-rays (left). These are images of technologies technologies a cherry. In vitro diagnostic Optical diagnostic equipment equipment Clinical examination in hospitals and clinics Absorption image Small angle X-ray Differential phase (Early detection of lifestyle-related diseases and cancer) scattering image contrast image KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 16 For the Global Environment Medium-Term Environmental Plan, Single-year Targets and Achievements (see pages 19 to 21 for details of achievements in fiscal 2010) Fiscal 2015 Targets (Base Year: Fiscal 2005) Fiscal 2010 Targets CO2 emissions throughout product life cycle: Reduce by 20% −43.5% CO2 emissions from product usage: Reduce by 60% −62.9% Preventing global warming CO2 emissions from manufacturing: Reduce by 10% (per unit of sales) +34.6% P19 CO2 emissions from distribution: Reduce by 30% (per unit of sales) −17.0% CO2 emissions from sales and service: Reduce by 50% (per unit of sales) +44.7% Petroleum-based resource usage: Reduce by 20% (per unit of sales) +21.2% Supporting Packaging materials usage: Reduce by 25% (per unit of sales) −24.7% a recycling-oriented society Waste discharged externally*1 from manufacturing: Reduce by 50% (per unit of sales) +09.9% P20 Product recycling: Build up product recycling systems in each region and aim for * Confirm the current state of recycling a recycling rate of 90% or more systems and develop new plans Chemical substance management: Maintain strict management of chemical * Fully implement the new green substances, including the entire supply chain*2 procurement system Reducing the risk of * Complete preparations for chemical substances compliance with the China RoHS*3 P21 Atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs): Reduce by 75% −71% (in items of environmental impact index*4) * Reexamine the procurement Restoring and standards for paper preserving biodiversity Help restore and preserve biodiversity * Establish a plan for ecosystem Web conservation measures *1 Waste discharged externally: The amount of waste disposed of outside Konica Minolta facilities, comprising the total amount of waste generated through production activities, minus the amount recycled and reduced internally. *2 Supply chain: In this case, the process by which raw materials from upstream companies pass through component manufacturers and are delivered to Konica Minolta. Web About > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environment Plan: Objectives and Efforts 17 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Implementing the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015, a key step on the road to the long-term environmental vision “Eco Vision 2050,” with specific targets for reduced environmental impact. Konica Minolta’s long-term environmental vision, Eco Vision plan sets targets to be met and priority measures for the 2050, declares the Group’s intention to reach certain goals whole Group based on four themes: preventing global by the year 2050 to fulfill its responsibility as a global warming, supporting a recycling-oriented society, reducing corporation by contributing to a sustainable earth and the risk of chemical substances, and restoring and human societies. preserving biodiversity. To achieve this vision, Konica Minolta has established its The Group has also set target values for each year for Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015, setting specific each business company and is taking an array of measures measures to implement with 2015 as the target year. This to achieve each stipulated target. Reductions in CO2 Emissions Eco Vision 2050 （%） 100 Products Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the product 1 80 life cycle by 80% by 2050, compared to 2005 levels CO2 emissions 60 Promote recycling and effective use of Earth’s Reduction by 20% Manufacturing 2 limited resources 40 from fiscal 2005 levels by 2015 Collection, distribution, procurement, sales and services 80% 3 Work to promote restoration and preservation of 20 Reduction by from fiscal 2005 biodiversity levels by 2050 0 2005 2015 2050 (Year) Fiscal 2010 Achievements and Key Measures Achieved Fiscal 2011 Targets −45.5% Yes −44.4% −64.0% * Marketed products with high energy-saving performance Yes −64.0% +29.5% * Improved energy efficiency in production through the Green Factory Certification System Yes +38.9% +45.8% * Reduced air freight No −23.3% +48.5% * Improved efficiency in sales and services No +39.3% * Introduced eco-cars and eco-driving +24.0% * Reduced resources used in products No +24.0% * Reduction of waste in production through the Green Factory Certification System * Introduced eco-cars and eco-driving −28.9% * Reduced packaging through improved design Yes −27.0% * Made packing boxes returnable between production facilities +15.9% * Improved production efficiency and promoted internal recycling through the No +01.6% Green Factory Certification System — * Began selling re-manufactured MFPs Yes * Expand sales of re-manufactured MFPs * Implemented survey on recycling systems * Enhance recycling systems — * Fully implemented the new green procurement system Yes * Study alternatives to * Complete preparation for compliance with the China RoHS substances to be reduced * Ensure compliance with the China RoHS −73% * Implemented the reduction plan through the Green Factory Certification System Yes −67% ― * Prepared revised draft of the procurement standards for paper Yes * Revise and implement the draft * Finalized revised draft that incorporates biodiversity preservation in the criteria of procurement standards for paper the Green Factory Certification System * Pursue compliance with criteria of the Green Factory Certification System *3 China RoHS: Administrative Measure on the Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products. Hazardous substance regulations enacted by China in March 2007. *4 Environmental impact index: An index unique to Konica Minolta designed to measure impact on the environment, obtained by multiplying VOC emission volume by a hazard factor (impact on human health and environmental impact) and a location factor. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 18 For the Global Environment Preventing Global Warming Konica Minolta is working to reduce CO2 emissions across every stage of the product life cycle, including product usage, manufacturing, distribution, sales, and services. Achieving Reduction Targets for CO2 Emissions across the Product Life Cycle In addition to its efforts to reduce CO2 emissions across the How the Targets Are Set entire product life cycle, Konica Minolta sets targets for each In the Medium-Term Environmental Plan, Konica Minolta has stage including product usage, manufacturing, distribution, and set the reduction target for CO2 emissions over the product life sales and services. As a result of achieving the target values for cycle for fiscal 2015 at 20% based on the 80% reduction set as CO2 emissions from product usage and manufacturing the target in Eco Vision 2050. However, based on the progress processes, which account for nearly 90% of the total, the Group of its environmental policies and the current economic succeeded in meeting its overall target in fiscal 2010. environment, Konica Minolta has set a reduction target of The business technologies business accounts for more 44.4% for fiscal 2011. The Group may change the target for than 90% of CO2 emissions during product usage, so the fiscal 2015, anticipating future growth in sales. company is prioritizing efforts to reduce the energy consumed by these products. In fiscal 2010, the company launched the bizhub 184/164 monochrome MFP with industry-top-class low power consumption, which contributed to achieving the CO2 Emissions across Product Life Cycle reduction target. Product usage Manufacturing Distribution Sales and services Product life cycle (Target) Product usage (Target) Regarding CO2 emissions resulting from manufacturing (Thousand t-CO2) processes, the Green Factory Certification System P11 ▼ 1,800 incorporates its own criteria to encourage each business unit 1,630 to increase its energy efficiency in production, thereby steadily 1,350 1,304 reducing CO2 emissions per unit of production (output or 1,013 900 900 888 921 906 production volume). The Group did not achieve its targets for CO2 emissions 450 from distribution, or from sales and services. In particular, the increase in air freight required to respond to volatile demand 0 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 (Fiscal year) trends had a significant impact on the emissions, and as a result Result Target Target Target the Group missed the target by a large margin. Note: Past data has been restated to reflect the improvement in calculation accuracy. Feature Launch of MFPs with High Environmental Performance for Emerging Markets The bizhub 184/164 is a series of monochrome MFPs with low-carbon products in recognition of industry-top-class low power consumption. Sales began in their environmental performance. May 2010 targeting small and mid-sized offices in emerging * TEC (typical electricity consumption) value: markets where demand for office equipment is increasing. Typical weekly energy consumption specified by the International Energy Star Program. It is This series contributes to reducing CO2 emissions by calculated assuming an average usage pattern reducing power consumption during usage to less than half in offices of five days of alternate operation and sleep/off, and two days of sleep/off. bizhub 164 the reference value (TEC value* ). In addition, weighing in at only 23.5 kg, the volume of each machine has been reduced by about 30% compared to previous models, and the quantity Power Consumption (TEC value) Comparison (230 V) of components cut by about 35%. The mass of the packaging （kWh/w） materials used is also about 40% less than that of previous 2.5 2.30 2.10 2.0 models. Furthermore, the adoption of proprietary polymerized 1.5 toner achieves both outstanding environmental performance 1.01 1.0 0.92 and high-resolution printing. 0.5 The bizhub 184/164 and nine other models have received 0 the China Environmental Labeling Product Certification for Reference value bizhub 184 Reference value bizhub 164 Web About > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Preventing Global Warming 19 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Supporting a Recycling-Oriented Society Konica Minolta views reducing the usage of petroleum-based resources as a priority target, and the Group is working to support the establishment of a recycling-oriented society through the efficient use of resources and the reduction of waste. Working to Minimize the Usage of Petroleum-based Resources in Products Konica Minolta has set three themes for reducing the use of the target for reducing fuel consumption in vehicles, among petroleum-based resources: the amount of resources such as other factors. plastic used in products; waste generated in production; and The Green Factory Certification System P11 incorporates ▼ the fuel consumption of sales and service vehicles. Of these, its own criteria for waste discharged externally from the Group is placing particular emphasis on reducing the manufacturing, to encourage reductions at each production resources used in products which account for more than 60% site. However, the target value was not met due to increased of the total. Besides making products lighter, thinner, shorter manufacturing of products that generate relatively high levels and smaller, the Group is also increasing the use of recycled of waste during production, as well as the unexpected waste materials. In fiscal 2010, Konica Minolta Business Technologies, that is produced with the start-up of new plants. Inc. implemented measures such as adopting two types of Reduction of packaging materials usage and product environmentally responsible plastic for the first time in the recycling are progressing as planned. In fiscal 2010, Konica bizhub 652/552 monochrome MFP P24 . However, the ▼ Minolta commercialized a re-manufactured MFP, starting sales Group did not achieve the target value due to failure to meet of the bizhub 750RM/600RM in Japan from December P23 . ▼ Petroleum-based Resource Usage Waste Discharged Externally from Manufacturing Total volume Per unit of sales Per unit of sales (target) Total volume Per unit of sales Per unit of sales (target) (Thousand t) (tons/billion yen) (Thousand t) (tons/billion yen) 120 1.2 40 0.4 0.95 0.93 0.91 0.93 0.28 0.29 90 0.75 0.84 0.9 30 0.25 0.24 0.27 0.25 0.3 0.60 60 0.6 20 0.2 0.12 30 80.4 79.6 76.1 72.6 0.3 10 26.6 23.0 22.2 22.4 0.1 0 0 0 0 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 (Fiscal year) 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 (Fiscal year) Result Target Target Target Result Target Target Target Note: Past data has been restated to reflect the improvement in calculation accuracy. Feature Achieving Thinner TAC Films for LCD Polarizers One of the indispensable components of the liquid crystal requirements of liquid crystal display applications such as high displays used in mobile phones, PC monitors, LCD TVs, and large flatness and UV absorption, the company has achieved screens is TAC* film, which protects polarizers. production of a film twice as thin as conventional films, with a Konica Minolta Opto, Inc., got a head start in the thickness of only 40 μm, thereby reducing the use of material development of TAC films for liquid crystal polarizers using resources by half. In the expanding market for liquid crystal technology acquired over the years in the development and displays, use of thin TAC film is increasing every year, production of photographic film. While meeting the quality contributing to the conservation of resources. * TAC: Abbreviation of the substance triacetylcellulose Structure of a liquid crystal panel Polarizing plate Glass plate Color filter LCD TAC film TFT/electrode 80 μm Polyvinyl-alcohol polarizing element Glass plate Retardation film/TAC film 40 μm Polarizing plate Back light Web About > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Supporting a Recycling-Oriented Society KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 20 For the Global Environment Reducing the Risk of Chemical Substances Based on the precautionary principle, Konica Minolta strives to stay ahead of international trends in chemical management in its efforts to minimize the risk of chemical substances. Updating the Green Procurement System and Meeting Reduction Targets for VOC Emissions As part of the strict management of chemical substances during fiscal 2010. VOC emissions including other solvents across the entire supply chain, Konica Minolta updated its increased compared with the previous year due to increased green procurement system in October 2009 in order to production in response to the economic recovery in fiscal establish a system capable of meeting the future requirements 2010, but the Group achieved the target for the year. of chemical management. In fiscal 2010, the Group carried out a comprehensive survey of around 2,000 suppliers of all Group Reduction of Atmospheric VOC Emissions (Risk-Adjusted) companies in and outside Japan using the new SIGMA Green Environmental impact index Environmental impact index（Target） (Points) Procurement System. Based on the findings, the Group will 5,000 5,032 ensure that banned substances are not used, and will continue to phase out the use of highly hazardous substances. 4,000 75% reduction In addition, since 1993, Konica Minolta has worked to from fiscal 2005 3,000 reduce atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) that the Group determines as having a high risk in 2,000 1,662 terms of hazard and volume, at its production sites around the 1,464 1,366 1,476 1,258 1,082 world. The Group has worked systematically to eliminate the 1,000 use of highly hazardous solvents by fiscal 2010, eliminating 0 benzene, formaldehyde, chloroform, and others by fiscal 2004, 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 (Fiscal year) and the remaining applicable substance, 1,2-dichloroethane, Result Target Target Target Feature Implementation of a New Green Procurement System Compliant with More Stringent Chemical Substance Regulations Konica Minolta implements green procurement, assessing the *1 RoHS Directive: Regulations enacted by the EU in July 2006 prohibiting chemical constituents of parts and components and giving the use of specified hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. preference to those with the least environmental impact. *2 REACH regulations: Regulations enacted by the EU in June 2007 Konica Minolta has established its own list of banned and concerning the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of monitored substances from the perspective of compliance chemicals, to consolidate existing regulations concerning chemical and environmental safety, and the Group is working to reduce substances. or eliminate chemicals that adversely affect human health and Overview of the SIGMA Green Procurement System the environment from its production processes and products. Regulations on chemical substances in products will be Management of survey records Konica Minolta Group Request product strengthened in the future with the revision of the RoHS constituent survey Directive*1 and the addition of approval candidate substances Parts and materials manufacturers Database Conf irmation of receipt and restricted substances in the REACH regulations.*2 In of request response to these substances’ regulations, the Group began * Manufacturer information Smooth Web-based operation of its SIGMA Green Procurement System in October communication * Information on parts 2009, an updated version of the earlier system. and raw materials Ensure compliance The tools are now available in Chinese, as well as English * Information on through communication and Japanese. Through improved communication with chemical content record management business partners realized by providing Q&A support and Response with chemical Calculation View regulatory information, survey response rates increased to content information about 95%. The results of the survey are evaluated by experts Development & design Notification of in the Group on a regular basis, and feedback given to the information registration business companies to promote more accurate responses and Provide information on Management of chemicals in products response records the elimination of parts containing hazardous materials. In this Sales companies & customers way, the Group will improve the reliability of risk avoidance. Web About > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Reducing the Risk of Chemical Substances 21 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Fiscal 2010 Environmental Data Summary Web About > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environmental Management at Konica Minolta > Environmental Data Environmental Impacts Resulting from Business Activities Konica Minolta continually monitors its environmental performance in areas such as total energy and resource inputs, CO2 emissions and waste discharge at each stage of the product life cycle, on a global basis. Overall Picture of Environmental Impact INPUT Konica Minolta OUTPUT Resources (Usage in products) Atmosphere Petroleum-based resources (48.7 kt) Procurement CO2 emissions (443 kt-CO2) Non-petroleum-based resources (71.3 kt) Atmosphere Energy CO2 emissions (362 kt-CO2) Electricity (510 million kWh) SOx (0.2 t), NOx (48.6 t), Soot and dust (0.6 t) Fossil fuels (2,208 TJ) Wastewater Water Production/ Wastewater (5,211 thousand m3) Water consumption (6,020 thousand m3) Research and COD (11.1 t), Phosphorous (0.4 t), Nitrogen (2.5 t) Water recycled/reused (40.5 thousand m3) development Waste Total waste (31.6 kt), Waste discharged externally (22.4 kt), Resources Amount recycled (22.0 kt), Final disposal (71.1 t) Amount recycled internally (9.2 kt) Chemical Substances Atmospheric emissions of VOCs (618 t) Energy Fossil fuels (803 TJ) Atmosphere Distribution Resources CO2 emissions (57.4 kt-CO2) Packaging materials usage (19.9 kt) Atmosphere Energy CO2 emissions (offices) (42.8 kt-CO2) Electricity (70.6 million kWh) Sales and CO2 emissions (vehicles) (59.5 kt-CO2) Fossil fuels (offices) (139 TJ) service Fossil fuels (vehicles) (886 TJ) Waste Waste discharged externally (2.9 kt) Energy Atmosphere Usage Electricity (814 million kWh) CO2 emissions (409 kt-CO2) Resources Resources (product recovery) Product recovery (8.7 kt) Recovery Product recovered and recycled (8.5 kt) * See the Konica Minolta website for the scope and standards for calculation Environmental Accounting Environmental accounting personnel are appointed at each Group company and the Group carries out consolidated environmental accounting globally, from research and development to production and sales. Investment Expenditures Economic Benefits Environmental Preventing global Pollution R&D cost Environmental remediation cost Social activity cost remediation cost Other costs warming prevention 27.3% 0.1% 0.9% 2.0% 0.0% Upstream / 2.2% 0.0% downstream Pollution 12.3% prevention cost Administration 17.6% R&D cost 0.0% Pollution 0.3% prevention cost Preventing 3,581 41.2% R&D cost 11,933 global 16,975 35.5% warming cost (million yen) (million yen) 5.0% (million yen) Upstream / Resource downstream circulation cost costs 0.0% 12.9% Resource Preventing global Upstream / Resource circulation cost warming cost Administration cost downstream costs circulation 17.7% 13.4% 12.7% 13.4% 85.5% KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 22 For the Global Environment CLOSE UP Reuse and Recycling of MFPs In its Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015, Konica Parts are disassembled and sorted for recycling Minolta set targets to be met by the whole Group on the theme of supporting a recycling-oriented society ▼ P17 . To achieve these targets, Group companies are committed to policies tailored to the nature of their respective businesses. These pages present the initiatives of Konica Minolta Business Technologies, Inc. (hereafter, Business Technologies) on reuse and recycling of MFPs. Machines collected in Japan in fiscal 2010 * Estimated collection rate = 73.6% * Recycling rate = 98.7% (by weight) Action 1 Re-manufactured MFPs Achieve 85% Reuse of Parts Business Technologies markets re-manufactured MFPs, which CO2 Emissions (Life Cycle Assessment Results) are built from used products, by disassembling and cleaning or (kg/year) replacing parts as necessary and making adjustments. The 1,400 1,405 58% finished product comes guaranteed as meeting the same 1,200 CO2 quality standards as a new product. 1,000 reduction The re-manufactured MFP bizhub 750RM/600RM released 800 in December 2010 in Japan is a recycled version of the bizhub 600 585 750/600 monochrome MFP that prints 75/60 pages (letter or 400 A4 landscape) per minute. Using recycled parts for more than 200 85% of the mass ratio of the product reduces CO2 emissions 0 bizhub 600RM bizhub 600 bizhub 600RM over the product life cycle by about 41% for the bizhub 750RM and about 58% for the bizhub 600RM. How MFPs are Re-manufactured Collection of products Used MFPs are collected. Sorting Disassembly Cleaning MFPs that are suitable for The MFPs are disassembled The parts are cleaned. re-manufacturing are by hand so that the parts selected. do not get damaged. Customers Sales company Simple packaging Inspection Replacement of parts The MFPs are wrapped The reassembled MFPs are and reassembly with low-waste subject to the same quality Some parts are replaced with packaging for delivery. inspection as newly new ones, MFPs are reassembled manufactured products. in their original form. 23 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Action 2 Promoting Reuse and Recycling of Parts Business Technologies collects used MFPs within Japan through its nationwide sales companies and JBMIA* Achieving a sustainable society based on replacement centers. Disassembly and sorting of the MFPs relationships of trust. collected is outsourced to contractors in seven locations At OMT, we see our business as a resources and environment nationwide. business. Regarding the industrial waste from other companies as OMT Co., Ltd., the contractor for the Kanto and Tohoku a resource, we have consistently striven to achieve a recycling rate regions, carries out disassembly by hand instead of using close to 100% from the perspective of returning the waste to its original materials. In addition, we have actively promoted the mechanical processing, achieving a high recycling rate. The disclosure of information about our company and waste dismantled parts are sorted into about 20 different types, treatment processes, by opening our plants to a wide range of including metal, plastic, and others. Reusable parts are cleaned, visitors as a venue for environmental education. It was through inspected and reused. Other parts are sent to be recycled by these efforts that we have established a relationship of trust with our customers and the local community. companies that can process them as feedstock for recyclable We have been working with Konica Minolta for about 10 years materials or fuel. now, and we take pride in the fact that our relationship is founded In addition, a group company of Business Technologies, on their full confidence in our principles and activities. As a good Toyohashi Precision Products Co., Ltd., selects, cleans and partner, we want to continue our contribution to achieving a sustainable society together. inspects the developing rollers and conveyance springs from used toner cartridges. These are then sent to group companies for use in new products. *JBMIA: Japan Business Machine and Information System Industries Association Mutsuo Okamura President OMT Co., Ltd. At Toyohashi Precision Products At OMT Focus Adoption of Environmentally Responsible Materials Adoption of Recycled PET Plastic and a Bioplastic for MFPs Konica Minolta actively seeks to reduce the use of petroleum-based resources. As part of this effort, Business Technologies has adopted two types of environmentally responsible plastic for the bizhub 652/552 monochrome MFP. New Polymer Alloy Recycled PET Bioplastic Recycled material developed Plant-based plastic that uses by Konica Minolta to make biomass as part of its resources. effective use of waste PET Compared to petroleum-based material obtained from waste plastics, they are characterized in the manufacturing process. by low consumption of Strong and fire resistant, it can petroleum-based resources also be injection molded. Used for the lid and low emissions of CO2. Used for the cover (vertical transport) KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 24 Earning the Confidence of Customers Providing safe, high-quality products is the Quality Activities, by Stage most important responsibility of a Design/Development Procurement Manufacturing Sales/Service manufacturing company. Ascertaining the needs of customers and society, and then Quality risk assessment creating solutions for challenging issues, Quality problem prevention Customer satisfaction survey helps to increase customer satisfaction. Production capability evaluation Konica Minolta is implementing group-wide initiatives to improve its solutions and Product safety education services, while enhancing the quality and Solution evaluation Solution quality improvement safety of its products throughout the Service standardization product life cycle. Each business company is Environmental assessment taking its own steps to better meet customer needs. Information sharing and communication system strengthening Fiscal 2010 Targets Major Achievements * Ensure product safety and prevent quality problems * Strengthened the quality problem prevention system Improving product quality and safety * Implemented site evaluation by top management * Workplace initiatives to improve product quality and P26, 27 promote production reform * Promoted evaluation of production capability Strengthening the * Improved network-based support systems ability to provide * Provide solutions that meet the needs of changing market environments * Provided solutions that meets the needs of emerging solutions to markets customers * Build mechanisms for solution quality improvement P28, 29, 30 * Provided desired solutions for issues in each business area Providing useful * Incorporated universal design products to meet needs * Provide useful products and services to society * Improved security features for MFPs Web Web About > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Customers 25 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Improving Product Quality and Safety Based on the Konica Minolta Quality Policy, the Group always strives to give top priority to customers and quality, and implements group-wide quality management. Furthermore, each business company is taking steps to respond to its own business issues. Preventing Quality Problems and Preparing for Rapid Response If One Occurs The globalization of production and procurement and today’s Accordingly, in April 2011, the company posted a notice on its advanced product performance mean there is a greater risk of websites in regions where the model numbers subject to this production issues. This makes it difficult to deal with quality risk were sold, offering free inspection and repair of these issues using only conventional quality assurance and quality products. management methods. Consequently, Konica Minolta Business Technologies, Inc. thoroughly analyzes past quality problems Responding to Quality Problems and investigates the root causes. In this way it is focusing on tackling problems in the early stages, not only through reoccurrence prevention, but also through the elimination of Quality Problem Incident potential problems never encountered before. Inter-divisional response team is assembled, In the unlikely event of a quality incident, the first priority is and response measures are immediately investigated and implemented. to respond quickly and minimize any inconvenience to customers. To deal with any problem that may arise, Konica Minolta has a system for the immediate assembly of a response Potential Quality Problems team of experts from the divisions concerned. Furthermore, Past problems are analyzed, and steps are taken to the company has built a system that can gather and compile prevent future problems by overhauling similar information relating to the quality problem concerned, and designs, components, and manufacturing processes. distribute it to top management and relevant divisions within the same day. This enables rapid decision making and Previously Unknown Quality Problems determination. Through the deep investigation of past problems, peripheral It was determined that the Konica Minolta A4 color printers and extension issues are identified, and measures are taken magicolor 4750DN and magicolor 3730DN have the potential to prevent new potential quality problems from occurring. to overheat and catch fire under very rare circumstances. Production Site Evaluation by Top Management In fiscal 2010, Konica Minolta began a unique initiative for site evaluation by top management covering not just quality issues, but also environmental and safety issues. The presidents of Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc. and other Group companies visit sites and confirm for themselves the implementation of policies and plans relating to quality, the environment, and occupational health and safety. The president who is visiting then evaluates the situation and offers advice for improvement. The initiative helps boost the motivation of frontline employees through opportunities for dialogue with their company president. This initiative was launched in November 2010, and evaluation was performed at 11 sites, including mainly the group's manufacturing facilities in Japan along with some external facilities. The visits took from a half-day to a full day; Masatoshi Matsuzaki, President, Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc., during this time, the presidents received reports on frontline performing a site evaluation initiatives and conditions, inspected facilities, and engaged in active Q&A sessions with employees. The initiative will be gradually expanded to non-production sites in the future. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 26 Earning the Confidence of Customers Improving Product Quality and Safety Promoting Evaluation of Production Capability Linked with Process Improvement Using improvement methods based on fact and data analysis, Production Capability Evaluation Konica Minolta is promoting unique Process Improvement efforts, targeting workplace reform and human resource improvement. Although it started off as a production site Production Capability Process Improvement Strengthening Activities initiative in Japan, in recent years it has since spread to sites in China, as well as business support divisions. Through this effort, Site culture and operation Problem resolution process reform based Evaluation of through onsite quality improvement is being advanced from the frontlines. on production structure production capability issue awareness Meanwhile, as part of initiatives to address management reform and policy Identification of issues, the Group has been carrying out Production Capability management by production problems Enhancing activity content site managers Strengthening Activities for production innovation under the Accelerating the pace of leadership of executives and organizational managers Promoting production reform implementation responsible for production at each Group company. Collaboration Since fiscal 2009, these two activities were linked together, and the Group began Evaluation of Production Capability with the aim of improving quality and reducing costs at production sites. Under this new initiative, teams comprised of managers Quality improvement Production efficiency improvement responsible for production capability as well as personnel involved in process improvement perform site evaluations twice a year at all the major production sites in Japan and Asia. The Evaluation Scores for Evaluation of Production Capability plan is to raise the bar across the entire Group by promoting Average score Range from highest to lowest scores mutual cross evaluations between different Konica Minolta (points) companies and sharing successful practices. 100 The average evaluation scores are steadily rising, thanks to 80 even more eff icient issue resolution. This is the result of combining 60 improvement activities at individual plants, along with initiatives 40 for strengthening productivity based on the identification of issues from a broad perspective. In the future, Konica Minolta will 20 raise the production efficiency group-wide, by promoting direct 0 guidance to Group companies with low evaluation scores. 1H FY2009 2H FY2009 1H FY2010 2H FY2010 Feature Chinese Team Wins Top Prize at the Process Improvement Convention Once a year, Konica Minolta holds the Process Improvement developed a singleness of purpose. As a result, we were able to Convention, featuring teams selected from Group companies in unify awareness across different divisions, and we achieved Japan and China. At the convention held in November 2010, a results that crossed organizational boundaries.” team from a Chinese company won the top prize for the first Not only did the team raise the level of improvement time since Chinese companies began participating in 2006. ability among all its members through the activity, but it also The winner of the gold medal was the Shen Liu Hao team deepened understanding of process improvement. This was from Konica Minolta Opto (Dalian) Co., Ltd., which produces evident in their determination to achieve “further improvements optical lenses and assembles optical units. The team achieved in the future by looking beyond conventional practices.” major results through initiatives for the improvement of glass lens processing quality based on the combined efforts of four divisions: manufacturing, technology, quality assurance, and business management. Reflecting on their achievement, the members of the team said, “At first many of us were unsure about the high targets, but through the implementation of initiatives we came up with new ideas for changing old production methods, and we all Presentation by the Shen Liu Hao team 27 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Strengthening the Ability to Provide Solutions to Customers Each business company at Konica Minolta is helping customers to solve their business issues by providing products and solutions that meet changing needs and individual market environments. Supporting Global Optimization of the Office Printing Environment The proliferation of MFPs and printers in offices and the The service was initially offered in separate regions such as consequent increase in printing costs has raised the profile of North America, Europe and Japan. In order to meet the needs managed print services (MPS) as a means of optimizing the of global companies seeking to optimize on a worldwide scale, placement and utilization of printers. it has been expanded into the Global OPS Program from fiscal In response to these needs, Konica Minolta offers its own 2010. With remote management which centralizes control of MPS solution, Optimized Print Services (OPS), covering all MFPs and printers around the world, and monitoring systems aspects of printing including operational processes, costs and that show the status of each printer, Konica Minolta delivers security, to achieve continuous improvement in the three the best solution for each customer. phases of consulting, implementation and management. The OPS Procedure Conduct surveys concerning the status of use and printing volume of existing printers and Consulting analyze the results of user interviews, and then design the optimal printing environment. Bringing optimization Comprehensive collaboration to bear on the next issue towards resolving issues * Fleet * Process * Finance * Security Management Implementation After introduction of a new system, In addition to the introduction carry out remote management, of new printing solutions, offer monitor the use of the equipment, related services such as and review the state of operation in deployment management and order to make further Meticulous support training based on customer improvements. after implementation requirements. Customer Comment Konica Minolta’s program delivered the flexibility we hoped for. Allianz is an insurance company with offices in 70 countries. exactly. With this flexible proposal, we feel that Konica As a result of meeting the printing needs of each office, the Minolta is keen to provide the optimum solution with a clear company was faced with a complex web of contracts with understanding of the needs of each region. various printer vendors, and it was very difficult for the company as a whole to assess its printing costs. Therefore we decided to restructure our printing environment completely with a single, global contract, aimed at implementing MPS across 80% of the company’s global operations. Consequently, Allianz sought a partner that could offer a straightforward price that would meet the needs of its offices around the world. Richard Mayer Konica Minolta’s response was a combination of locally Corporate IT Purchase tailored solutions and central management that fit our needs Allianz SE KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 28 Earning the Confidence of Customers Strengthening the Ability to Provide Solutions to Customers Providing IT Services to Support Collaboration Between Hospitals and Clinics Given the rapid digitalization of medical diagnosis, there is an automatically backed up in real time on a data center server increasing need for dedicated IT networks to support medical managed by Konica Minolta. This enables the reading of professionals. In order to respond to this demand, in 2007, images outside the clinic, such as during a house call, and Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc. launched its Infomity prevents the loss of data due to a disaster. service in Japan. This is a business support service provided to The other is the online Collaboration Box Service, which medical clinics over the Internet. enables the sharing of medical data including examination The service focuses on remote maintenance carried out 24 images, regular image data such as JPEG files, and reports, by hours a day, 365 days a year, for maintenance and multiple hospitals and clinics. As a result, doctors from different management of equipment such as computed radiology (CR) specialties can exchange opinions while viewing the same along with options such as support for website creation and patient images, and hospitals and clinics can collaborate in regular provision of government healthcare news. In April enabling healthcare based on regional consultation. 2010, two new features were added: management of medical In March 2011, the Infomity service was also launched in images, and support for online collaboration between facilities. the United States. With the first new service, the Databank Service, image data from various types of diagnostic equipment is Databank Service and Collaboration Box Service Integrated management of all inspection information Clinic * Hospital CR Digital camera or scanner Endoscope CT Ultrasound Electrocardiograph equipment Note: All-in-one system for storing and managing medical image data before and after inspection Clinic Easy storing and Automatic backup Data retrieval sharing of in real time Online data recovery designated data Other specialists Databank Collaboration Box Networking House call Konica Minolta data center 29 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Providing Measurement Devices to Support Manufacturing Quality in the Environment and Energy Field Konica Minolta Sensing, Inc. is contributing to manufacturing is necessary to establish methods for measuring and evaluating and quality management in various industries, through the the performance of new devices. development of a range of measurement devices based on Konica Minolta Sensing is developing and supplying “technologies for measuring light and measuring with light.” measurement devices that can accurately measure the These products have been adopted as standard equipment at properties of these kinds of technologies. The company also many companies in the fields of product color management and promotes awareness raising activities for the expanded adoption display quality management, in particular. of evaluation methods and measuring standards. Konica Minolta In recent years, there has been interest in LED and solar cell Sensing believes that these efforts will help foster the technologies as new industries in the environment and energy development of new industries, and ultimately contribute to the field. In order to further expand the use of these technologies, it resolution of environmental and energy issues. Feature Improving Production Efficiency for LED TVs Promoting the Expanded Use of Solar Cells In recent years, there has been increasing demand for LED TVs. A solar simulator is a device that creates simulated sunlight for use in These LCD televisions employ LED backlighting, which enables the evaluating solar cells. Konica Minolta’s reference photovoltaic (PV) creation of slimmer and more lightweight units, without the use of cells are used to calibrate solar simulators to provide illumination harmful substances such as mercury. However, due to the uneven equivalent to “standard sunlight,” an international testing standard. wavelength distribution typically produced by LED light, The technology was developed jointly by Konica Minolta Sensing, manufacturers have had difficulty in obtaining accurate Inc. and Japan’s National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science measurements for the adjustment of white balance in LED TVs. and Technology (AIST). It is used for the testing of tandem solar Konica Minolta Sensing has developed a new sensor compatible cells, which have been seeing increased with LED light emission characteristics which enables demand in recent years. By realizing a much measurement with high speed and higher level of measurement accuracy and accuracy. By using this sensor, stability compared to conventional manufacturers can radically improve products, the company is helping to expand operation efficiency, increasing solar cell use by accelerating R&D for productivity as well as picture quality tandem solar cells, which are expected to when manufacturing LED TVs. CA-310 display color analyzer reduce costs in the future. Reference PV Cell AK-100 Responding to Demand in the Still Rapidly Growing Chinese Market by Supplying Inkjet Printheads with High Added Value In China there has been increasing demand for outdoor a good reputation and a high level of customer confidence. advertising and signage, as a result of large events such as the The company also plans to develop high-performance Beijing Olympics and the Shanghai Expo. In this market, the printheads that can be used for water-based inks, which are in industrial inkjet printhead made by Konica Minolta IJ Technologies, great demand in the indoor advertising market. Inc. has the top share for printheads for large-format inkjet printers used to print outdoor advertising. KM1024 Series of Industrial This inkjet printhead employs an on-demand piezo method Inkjet Printheads that utilizes the characteristics of a piezoelectric element to * Substantial improvement in change form when voltage is applied. Since it requires less heat productivity due to a greater print compared to the thermal method, it can be used for high-viscosity width (72 mm), and high number of solvent ink and UV ink, among others. Furthermore, with the nozzles (1,024) * Approximately 50% reduction in application of printhead components that offer superior ink power consumption compared to a resistance, it has achieved superior durability and stability, earning previous model KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 30 Fulfilling Social Responsibilities with Business Partners At the briefing held for business partners in China in March 2011, simultaneous interpretation in Japanese and Chinese was available using wireless earpieces. Konica Minolta seeks to provide products and CSR Procurement services that deliver superior performance in every area—including quality, price, and environmental responsibility—to customers around the world, Procurement Manufacturing Sales and always in a timely manner. To achieve this, it is Business essential to have reliable business partners. Konica Customers partners Minolta strives to build relationships based on trust with partners who supply materials and Consideration for human rights, components, by conducting fair and transparent safety and health, and the environment business transactions. In addition, in order to fulfill its social responsibility for products and services it provides to customers, the company is committed to collaborating with partners on CSR The same is required of our partners. procurement and green procurement. Fiscal 2010 Targets Major Achievements Promoting CSR procurement * Implemented self-assessment questionnaires * Implement CSR procurement with business partners throughout the based on the medium-term plan for fiscal 2009 to 2011 * Requested improvements when necessary supply chain P32 Improving customer * Continued to operate the Procurement Collaboration satisfaction through * Implement a Procurement Collaboration System for System collaboration with improving quality, productivity, delivery times, and so business partners on through collaboration with business partners * Provided simultaneous interpretation at the briefing Web for business partners in China Promoting green procurement for * Full operation of the new green procurement system * Fully implemented the new green procurement system reducing impact introduced in fiscal 2009 * See “For the Global Environment”. on the environment P21 Web About > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Business Partners 31 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Promoting CSR Procurement Throughout the Supply Chain A growing expectation today is that companies practice “CSR procurement,” which means working with partners throughout the supply chain to fulfill social responsibilities with regard to respect for human rights, occupational health and safety, and environmental protection. Konica Minolta is implementing CSR procurement group-wide, working closely with its business partners. Self-assessment Questionnaires Done by Group Production Sites and Business Partners Konica Minolta’s CSR procurement initiatives that started in July Minolta asked a total of 1,428 companies for cooperation, and 2009 target the Group’s production sites and business partners. of these, 387 companies completed questionnaires. Self-assessment questionnaires were completed at 36 major facilities within the Group in April 2010. One facility CSR Procurement System initially recorded Rank B for certain items, but after taking steps towards improvement, all facilities achieved Rank A in June Konica Minolta Business companies and Holdings, Inc. other affiliated companies 2010. The self-assessments will continue to be carried out Policy and standards Directives Officer responsible for periodically in the future in order to maintain the Rank A status Executive officer CSR procurement and make further improvements. in charge of CSR Reporting Reporting Directives Konica Minolta encourages as many of its business Cooperation Staff partners as possible to undertake CSR initiatives. In addition, Head of the Corporate Implementation from fiscal 2009, each Group company is implementing a Social Responsibility Division Implementation three-year plan to conduct questionnaire assessments of its Group production sites main business partners, aiming to ensure that more than 90% of the Group's business partners in terms of transaction value Business partners are subject to the assessments. From fiscal 2009 to 2010, Konica Feature Business Partners Asked to Make Improvements Based on the Results of Self-assessment Questionnaires The results of the self-assessment questionnaires categorize questionnaires to all business partners that respond. Partners respondents in four ranks, from A to D, according to ranked C or D receive specific instructions on areas that must achievement. Group production sites are expected to achieve be addressed, and are asked to submit and implement a plan Rank A, and business partners are expected to achieve Rank B for improvement. or higher. Each Group company reports the results of the Example of Improvements Requested Here is a record of the procedure from request for improvement to report on completion of improvements in 改善要請書 （兼 改善計画書） A 社 御中 relation to business partners that ranked C overall. 改善要請事項を報告いたしますので、お取引先様におきましては以下の要請事項を中心とした改善をお願い致します。 各々の改善要請事項について、改善計画 （取組み内容及び完了時期） を弊社宛にご連絡願います。 Visited the business partner to report the 【分野別の達成度】労務管理：ランク C 倫理管理：ランク B 安全衛生マネジメント：ランク C 環境マネジメント March 2010 survey result and explained the seven requests アンケート 改善計画 No 分野 改善要請事項 設問番号 for improvement and the steps required 組込み内容（＊＊＊を〜〜する） 完了時期 部分実施している、監査およびレビューによって認識 管理者を設置し改善します→管 2010 年 1 労務 CL4 12 された労務または倫理上の欠陥に対する適宜改善措 理者を設置しました 9月 置を実施してください。 Receipt of the improvement plan; 貴事業所において労務方針（またはコミットメントの 労働安全衛生法にのっとり実施 2010 年 April improvement measures started with a target 2 労務 FL３ 1a 表明）の文書化を実施してください。 します→実施しました 12 月 of completion in September 貴社のすべての事業所における職場の安全衛生に関 する法律、規制および規範の遵守を確保することに 管理者を設置し改善します→管 2010 年 3 安全衛生 CH1 1 ついて責任を課せられている管理責任者の設置を実 理者を設置しました 9月 施してください。 Checking progress (five items complete, two September 貴社において適用すべき安全衛生に関する法律およ 安全衛生 CH4 1a び規制を認識し、モニターするためのトラッキング・ します→実施しました 労働安全衛生法にのっとり実施 2010 年 incomplete), and thereafter monthly checks 4 FH16 システムの確立を実施してください。 12 月 December Received the final report on improvement Improvement request (excerpt) KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 32 Growing Together with Our Employees With its business expanding globally, Konica Minolta employs a Employee Composition by Region diverse group of people around the world—people of different Asia Pacific (excluding Japan): nationalities, cultures, and languages. The Group recognizes 9,047 Japan: 12,421 that enabling each member of this diverse team to maximize 26% 35% his or her individual potential is essential to its growth. For this reason, Konica Minolta fosters an environment in which all Worldwide: employees, regardless of ethnicity, nationality, or gender, are 35,204 encouraged to challenge themselves, and it strives to build the North/South America: skills of those who are capable of taking the lead on the global Europe: 6,491 7,245 stage. The Group also focuses on improving health and safety in 18% 21% the workplace and providing the support employees need to (Total regular employees of consolidated companies, as of the end of March 2011) achieve a satisfying work-life balance. Fiscal 2010 Targets Major Achievements * Establish program to foster those likely to become leaders * Constructed Global HR Database on the global stage and to fully deploy their talents * Implemented Global Executive Program Personnel training and effective utilization * Implement corporate culture reforms to encourage of skills * Introduced simply BOLD Award employees to take on new challenges P34, 35 * Enhance personnel system to reflect employee aspirations * Introduced Free Agent (FA) System * Enhance system that helps employees achieve proper * Fully implemented work-at-home system work-life balance Promoting diversity Web * Maintain environment that allows all employees regardless * Implemented programs to train and develop female of gender to fully demonstrate their skills and capabilities managers * Continued to implement measures to prevent Promoting occupational * Prevent accidents during working hours work-related accidents at priority sites safety and health * Maintain an environment that provides for employees’ * Introduced fundamental facility improvement for safety P36 Web mental and physical health * Bolstered measures to prevent overwork Web About > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Employees 33 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Personnel Training and Effective Utilization of Skills Konica Minolta is committed to creating an environment in which each person in its diverse team of employees is able to maximize his or her individual skills, capabilities, and aspirations, as well as continuously challenge themselves in the workplace. The Group also focuses on building the skills of those who will play an active role on the global stage. Introduction of Group-Wide Executive Training Program In its effort to raise Konica Minolta to the level of a truly global these policies are well established at all Group companies. It is company, the Group focuses on fostering those who are likely also designed to foster leadership from a global perspective, to become leaders on the global stage to maximize the overall and build a network among executive management and strength of its team as a whole. participating candidates. In the first year, separate sessions were As part of this initiative, Konica Minolta has built a database held for Chinese speakers and English speakers, but Konica of executives and executive candidates at Group companies Minolta is now considering integrating them so that they are throughout the world. In fiscal 2010 it introduced the conducted in English and include Japanese participants. Group-wide Global Executive Program to foster the skills of people selected from the database. In November 2010, 14 Presentations and discussions at the Global Executive Program candidates from nine companies in China visited Japan to participate in the weeklong program. They were followed in February 2011 by 19 people from 15 companies in a total of 11 countries spanning Europe, the U.S., and Asia Pacific. The program facilitates communication with executive managers in order to impart an understanding of Konica Minolta management policies and strategies and ensure that Employee Comments The program was tremendously valuable for I realized just how important our company is to expanding our business in the global market place. Konica Minolta’s business in the growing Chinese market. The Global Executive Program was a tremendous By participating in face-to-face discussions with and receiving experience both in regards to the content and the guidance from executive managers, I gained a broader importance of time spent with other attendees. The understanding of Konica Minolta Group management opportunity to get to know leaders from other countries policies and strategies. At the same time, I realized that, as has provided a connection to share ideas and best practices competition in the global market intensifies, the Chinese for the benefit of all attendees. Understanding that Konica market is becoming increasingly important and the subject of Minolta is investing in leadership development to build a greater expectations. I was deeply aware of the responsibility worldwide leadership network will increase our ability to our company has in driving Group growth in the future. I will succeed in the global marketplace. bring what I learned from the program back with me to share with my colleagues in China and take the initiative in fulfilling my role to live up to the Group’s expectations. Velinda Cox He Yue Feng Vice President General Manager Strategic Business Planning Production Division I Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A., Inc. Konica Minolta Business Technologies (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 34 Growing Together with Our Employees Personnel Training and Effective Utilization of Skills Employees Who Embody “simply BOLD” Mindset Honored with Award Konica Minolta recognizes that employee motivation and to integrate them throughout the entire Group, Konica Minolta independent initiative is essential for its continued growth as a introduced “simply BOLD” Award to commend employees who company. In fiscal 2008, the Group introduced the worldwide have implemented excellent initiatives. The award committee action slogan “simply BOLD” to help create a Group-wide culture received 247 submissions for initiatives in “simply BOLD” Award Logo that encourages employees to develop the necessary mindset for Japan and 65 pre-selected submissions taking bold action. from companies overseas between In fiscal 2010, targets were set to expand the focus of the November 2010 and January 2011. Thirty “simply BOLD” mindset beyond the level of the individual teams in Japan and eight teams overseas employee and incorporate “simply BOLD” action at the Group level. were selected by employee ballot to Conceived as a way of sharing information on individual activities receive the simply BOLD Award. Feature “simply BOLD” Award Winners Konica Minolta Enterprise Foundation Project Team Company Study Group Transcends Departmental Borders Konica Minolta Business Solutions France S.A.S. Konica Minolta Opto, Inc. Konica Minolta’s MFPs incorporate the principles of universal design It can be difficult for employees, even those working on the same to make them easy to use for people of all ability levels. We are product, to share their knowledge with others who play different proud to have been a part of the establishment of the Konica roles in development, production, or sales, or work in different locations. To address these difficulties, we asked employees interested Minolta Enterprise Foundation, which is dedicated to increasing to take part in a study group we introduced in May 2010. Employees mobility for those who are physically challenged by installing from different departments give talks presenting the particular wheelchair-accessible ramps expertise of their own department to employees from other divisions. in public places. This initiative, This is a strictly voluntary gathering that takes place after working which began as the idea of hours. Despite this, the study group had met 30 times by January just five employees, has now 2011 and more than 500 gone company-wide. Many employees had employees are making participated. The donations and participating documents prepared for the study group in various ways. presentations are From left: Marc Fargeas, Alain Bendavid, distributed Group-wide François Balouzat, Nathalie Ribes, and have proved useful in Stéphane Guibore From left: Katsuaki Horibe and Hiroki Umeda our business activities. FA System to Promote Self-Determination in Career Building As a complement to the Group’s company-led system of personnel Under the FA System launched in May 2010, employees wishing assignments, Konica Minolta has introduced the Internal Open Job to take on the challenge of a new type of job or department are Posting System* and the Free Agent (FA) System,* which encourage asked to post their application on the Intranet server. Departments employees to request transfers to new positions on their own. These with open positions review the employee posts, call promising systems will help produce employees willing to undertake new candidates in for interviews, and if both the department and the positions in building their own careers and create a corporate employee agree, the employee is transferred to the new job. In culture that respects the desire to challenge oneself in new ways. fiscal 2010, 10 employees transferred to new departments under The Internal Open Job Posting System allows employees to this system. apply for open positions posted by departments looking for With these two systems in place, Konica Minolta continues to personnel. When the system was introduced in fiscal 2009, facilitate the fluid movement of human resources across the Group and numerous employees applied for several openings in two to support employee self-determination in shaping their own careers. departments, and a total of seven employees transferred to new * These systems are for regular employees at the holding company, business companies, jobs. In May 2011, 11 open job posts were listed on the system. and common function companies in Japan. 35 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Health and Safety at Work and Support for Work-Life Balance Konica Minolta implements a variety of measures designed to continuously improve health and safety levels in the workplace and to help employees achieve a fulfilling personal life. Identifying Priority Sites and Implementing Intensive Accident Prevention Measures Konica Minolta works to prevent accidents from occurring Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Sites in Japan Accidents causing absence from work Accident frequency rate during working hours by identifying the specific risks at each (Case) (Frequency rate) company and developing specific measures for dealing with 40 0.8 them. Each fiscal year, the Group also identifies priority sites and 0.70 implements intensive measures at these specific sites. 30 0.6 In fiscal 2010, the Group chose one of its production sites in 26 China to establish an organization to implement health and 20 0.4 safety programs, and provided on-site training to raise the level 0.28 0.21 of risk assessment. During the first half of fiscal 2010, two 10 0.12 9 0.17 0.2 accidents causing absence from work and three accidents not 0 4 5 6 0 causing absence occurred at this site. With the implementation 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) of intensive measures starting in July, the site was able to Notes: Boundary: Regular and temporary employees at the holding company, business companies, achieve a record of zero accidents during working hours for the common function companies, and affiliated companies in Japan. second half of the fiscal year. This approach will be expanded to Accident frequency rate: Number of people injured or killed due to occupational accidents per one million labor hours other production sites in China in the future. Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Overseas Production Sites In fiscal 2010, Konica Minolta created a list of equipment at Accidents causing absence from work Accident frequency rate high risk for causing serious accidents and implemented (Case) (Frequency rate) fundamental facility improvements to reduce this risk. The 20 0.4 0.27 Group drafted safety standards to be met during installation or 0.23 refurbishing of equipment and developed tools to check for 10 10 0.16 0.2 potential risk. In fiscal 2011, it plans to establish a system to 7 0 6 0 promote activities that will reduce the risk of accidents at 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) business companies and to introduce specific measures under Notes: Boundary: Employees at major production companies in China and Malaysia this system. Accident frequency rate: Number of people injured or killed due to occupational accidents per one million labor hours Enhancing the Work-Life Balance System Konica Minolta is striving to enhance its system to provide the allows employees to work from home one to two days per support employees need to achieve a satisfying work-life week. The program is proving quite effective with an increasing balance. The goal is to ensure that employees are able to fully number of employees, including men, taking part. In January demonstrate their skills and capabilities in the workplace while 2011, the Group received for the second consecutive year also achieving a fulfilling personal life that includes family, Honorable Mention in the Telework Promotion Awards community, and self-development. presented by the Japan Telework Association in recognition of A program allowing employees to work at home during such initiatives. child-rearing years was introduced in October 2009. This system Work-Life Balance Support Program Use (Fiscal 2010) During pregnancy/child-birth, post delivery Child-rearing period Others Women Men Women Men Women Men Maternal health management leave 5 Parental leave 80 1 Nursing care leave 1 3 Shorter working hours Shorter working hours Maternity leave 33 for childcare 170 0 for nursing care 1 0 Work-at-home during Spousal maternity leave 140 child-rearing 17 5 Volunteer leave 0 0 Scope: Regular employees at the holding company, business companies and common function companies in Japan. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 36 Contributing to Society Commitment to Addressing Social Issues around the World Aiming to earn the confidence and trust of society and be a good corporate citizen, Konica Minolta is helping solve local social issues around the world. The Group focuses especially on issues where it can make a unique and highly effective contribution through its business. Web About > Sustainability > Contributing to Society Worldwide Support for the Pink Ribbon Campaign for Early Breast Cancer Detection Konica Minolta Medical and Graphic, Inc., supplies digital mammography units for early detection of breast cancer. Naturally, Konica Minolta Group companies worldwide also support the Pink Ribbon campaign, which emphasizes the importance of early breast cancer detection. Participating in a Charity that Promotes Early Breast Cancer Detection (Canada) In 2010 Konica Minolta Business Solutions (Canada) Ltd., a sales company of office equipment and solutions, partnered with the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation. The company donated a portion of sales of the Konica Minolta color MFP for the period from October 2010 to March 2011 to the Foundation. In addition, several employees from across Canada came together to form a run team and took part in the Foundation’s awareness-raising run event on October 3, 2010. Holding Breast Cancer Seminar for Female Employees (Japan) On February 17, 2011, a breast cancer seminar was held for female employees, which was relayed by video conference to 11 Konica Minolta sites across Japan. The seminar was the result of the passion of the developers of digital mammography to protect as many women as possible from breast cancer. It began with a plan to first raise awareness inside the Group about the importance of breast cancer screening, and to identify information that women wanted to know, based on interviews with female employees. As many as 521 female employees participated in the seminar, and with the cooperation of like-minded doctors from a clinic specializing in breast cancer, a lecture on properly understanding breast cancer was given and specific methods for self examination were introduced. The company plans to continue this seminar in the future, and is looking into expanding it to women outside the Group. 37 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Supporting Children with Mental Disabilities (China) Konica Minolta Business Solutions (China), a sales company of office equipment solutions, has been supporting schools for mentally disabled children in Shanghai and Beijing, based on the theme of a “colorful future together with Konica Minolta.” This activity began with the donation of laser printers to a school that participated in the Shanghai Special Olympics in 2007, and it has now grown to six schools. Since 2008, the company has been creating calendars featuring the children’s paintings for distribution to customers and employees, as well as children and school staff. These calendars have been very well received each year. Other efforts include volunteer activities by employees, printer donations, and donation of study materials and year books printed on Konica Minolta equipment. In fiscal 2011, the company plans on launching a painting contest for the children, in addition to its usual activities. Activities Making Use of Planetarium Full-Dome Video (Japan) Konica Minolta Planetarium Co., Ltd., provides digital full-dome systems that show dynamic video on a full planetarium dome, along with planetarium equipment to recreate starry skies. On November 6 and 7, 2010, the company offered support for the Saga Prefecture Space and Science Museum, providing high-definition live projection of an International Balloon Festival in the museum’s planetarium. The full-dome show provided the audience with a very realistic experience, thereby contributing to the excitement of the event. The company also exhibited at the National Lifelong Learning Festival “Manabipia” held in Kochi Prefecture from November 19 to 21, 2010. The company’s exhibit featured a small planetarium dome imitating a spacecraft, and provided a computer animated space travel experience. It was an opportunity to increase many children’s interest in space. The company will continue engaging in various activities like these in Top: Photo courtesy of the future, with the aim of contributing to society by promoting astronomy Wakayama University and science education. Helping an Organization That Supports Patients with Intractable Illnesses (Slovakia) Konica Minolta Slovakia spol. s r. o., a sales company of office equipment and solutions, contributes time and resources to the Association Hope, a non-profit organization which provides support and services to those affected by multiple sclerosis.* The organization hosts a variety of educational activities designed to inform patients, doctors and the community about the aspects of the disease. The association also provides services such as employment assistance, counseling and physical therapy, and hosts various supporting events. Through the donation of bizhub C252 MFP, paper supplies and support services, the company has supported the smooth everyday operations of this organization. *Multiple sclerosis: A chronic disease which damages the myelin sheath around nerve fibers, causing inflammation in the brain, spinal cord and optic nerves. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 38 Management System Konica Minolta seeks to improve corporate value by using a holding company system and maintaining a highly transparent management and governance system that separates supervisory and execution functions. Corporate Governance Konica Minolta believes that strengthening corporate connections to executive officers, or significant financial governance is a vital part of fulfilling its responsibilities to relationships with the company. This initiative has been stakeholders. The Group has created a management and publicly recognized, and the company received a Corporate governance structure that allows more timely and appropriate Activity Award at the 2010 Listed Company Awards sponsored decision-making on matters such as restructuring. by the Tokyo Stock Exchange Group, Inc. Company-with-Committees System Holding Company System Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc. has adopted a company Konica Minolta has adopted a holding company system with-committees system, enabling the management comprised of a holding company, business companies and supervisory function of the directors to be separated from the common function companies. business execution function of the executive officers. Having separate business companies in each business The executive officers are entrusted by the Board of category enables accelerated decision-making processes and Directors with the task of business execution. The content of enhances competitiveness. Moreover, the common function this business execution is subject to the oversight of the Board companies centralize basic research and back-office operations of Directors and to audits by the Audit Committee, which within the Group, helping to achieve greater efficiency and enhances the soundness of management and compliance. stronger functionality. Each president of a business company The Board of Directors includes four outside directors, who are or common function company is also an executive officer of highly independent and have no significant business relations Konica Minolta Holdings. They have the authority and with the company. A majority of directors do not serve as responsibilities necessary for directly executing the executive officers. Moreover, the Chairman of the Board of management activities in their respective business. Directors has no executive officer position, which reinforces the Thanks to this system, the holding company is able to focus supervisory function of the Board of Directors. on Group management and governance with greater The company has written independence criteria for the leadership ability, which helps to improve corporate value for selection of outside director candidates, including the the entire Group. requirement that candidates not have any personal Board of Directors and Three Committees (as of June 22, 2011) Corporate Governance System Board of Directors (total of 11 people) General Meeting of Shareholders Seven Non Executive Officers Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc. Business Companies and (Holding Company) Common Function Companies Nominating Audit Compensation Committee Committee Committee Board of President Directors Directors and CEO (Chairman of the Board) Nominating Executive Outside Director Committee Officers *1 Outside Director President Audit Outside Director Committee *2 Board of Directors ⁝ Outside Director Compensation Director Committee *3 Director *1 Nominates director candidates *2 Performs management audits Four Executive Officers: : Chairman *3 Decides on board members and executive officers’ compensation Director (President & CEO) Three Directors (Senior Executive Officers) Delegation of authority Accountability 39 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 Web * About > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Corporate Governance * About > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Compliance * About > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Risk Management Compliance Risk Management In October 2003, Konica Minolta established the Konica Minolta Konica Minolta has established a system for minimizing the Group Charter of Corporate Behavior P7 , as the basis for ▼ business and social impact of crises that may arise from a range corporate activities. At the same time, the Group established of risks, by taking prompt and appropriate action and by the Konica Minolta Group Conduct Guidelines to serve as a releasing information. foundation for the governance of the Group companies in Japan, based on the principles contained in the Charter. Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Compliance manuals and codes of conduct have also been prepared by Group companies outside Japan based on these Immediately after the earthquake that struck on March 11, guidelines. 2011, Konica Minolta set up a Disaster Response Headquarters, and began to confirm employee safety and the extent of damage to affected Group companies. Guidance on the Konica Minolta Group Charter of Headquarters meetings were then held each morning, Corporate Behavior headed by the president of Konica Minolta Holdings, who also In April 2011, the company published the Konica Minolta serves as chief of the Disaster Response Headquarters. The Group Guidance for Charter of Corporate Behavior for all Group meetings included the heads of relevant departments at Konica companies worldwide, as a reference for individual employees Minolta Holdings, the executive officer for personnel, and the when implementing the Charter. executive officer for crisis management. The team discussed The Guidance provides specifics on practices employees information provided by various Group companies in Japan, should follow, based on a common understanding of the items and issued instructions for unified Group response measures. in the Charter. It also contains specific requirements Meanwhile, each business company and their subsidiaries concerning human rights and anti-corruption measures, as continued to confirm conditions of customers and the entire outlined in the United Nations Global Compact P7 , joined ▼ supply chain, while investigating response measures P6 . At ▼ by Konica Minolta in 2008. the Headquarters meetings, the information was compiled, and Employees worldwide are required to follow their own rapid determinations were made on how the entire Group Group company compliance manuals and codes of conduct would move forward with recovery measures and support for that correspond to the social ethics and laws of their respective the disaster region. The Headquarters team dealt with issues countries, using the Guidance as a baseline. that were changing on a daily basis, including conditions in the disaster region, the impact of the nuclear crisis, planned power outages, and gasoline shortages. Decisions by the team were Revision of Compliance Manual for China promptly disclosed in and outside the Group whenever In April 2011, the compliance manual for China was revised. necessary. Complementing to the Konica Minolta Group Charter of The Headquarters meetings at Konica Minolta Holdings Corporate Behavior, the manual refers to Chinese law and were concluded one month after the earthquake, and since social ethics and describes practices employees should follow then reconstruction measures have been carried out at each using specific examples. The first edition of this manual was business company according to the circumstances. Along with issued in fiscal 2004, and the revision was necessary in order to the continuation of these activities, the company will also keep pace with the legal and social changes in that country. analyze new potential risks brought to light by the disaster, The compliance manual for China has been released in which will be useful for improving the Group’s crisis Chinese and Japanese, and is used not only for employee management system. training in China, but also for preparing employees temporarily transferred from Japan to China, and those traveling there on business. Disaster Response Headquarters on the day of the earthquake KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 40 Expert Opinion of Konica Minolta’s CSR Report We asked Yoshinao Kozuma, Professor of Economics at Sophia University, to give us some feedback on this report. His comments are presented below. We will use this feedback to improve our future CSR activities and the CSR report next year. in a bid to ensure that economic activity need no longer result in greater resource consumption and increased environmental impact, the scope of environmental management has been broadened to go beyond its focus on the traditional business areas. There is now a pronounced trend for it to additionally cover the entire value chain. This is the thinking behind Konica Minolta’s approach, which is quite advanced even by international standards, and I have high hopes that it will help to make human societies more sustainable. Yoshinao Kozuma However, with the increase in information included this Professor Faculty of Economics year over last year, notational issues related to the reporting of Sophia University environmental management plans and results has made it a bit harder to grasp the big picture. For example, the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015 adopts a product life-cycle CO2 reduction target of 20%, but when one examines the Prompt disclosure of earthquake response subcomponents of this target, absolute targets are used for the information “product usage“ stage of the life cycle, while per-unit targets The most notable feature of this year’s report is its disclosure of are used for the other three stages. This makes it difficult to see information on Konica Minolta’s response to the Great East the quantitative relationship between the parts and the whole. Japan Earthquake on the pages just after the Message from the In addition, some of the per-unit targets show an increase in President. The earthquake delivered a devastating blow to the the current year, where the Group’s medium-term targets had social infrastructure of eastern Japan, severely affecting industrial called for a reduction. A more detailed explanation is required activity there. However, the Group’s business companies have regarding the relationship between the two. provided quick and detailed reporting on how they coped with the disaster, thus providing timely information on the functioning of the company’s risk management system not only Better disclosure of social information to stakeholders who have been worried about the ongoing The Konica Minolta Group’s Medium Term Business Plan, “G Plan impact of the quake, but also to all stakeholders with a concern 2013,” declares the goal of “becoming a truly global company.“ for the Group’s CSR management. This active approach to However, if the Group is to provide disclosure at a level information disclosure is the best way to build stakeholder trust. befitting a global company, further improvements in the content and format of its reporting of social information will be needed. This year’s report is better than last year’s in that it Life-cycle-based environmental provides more information regarding occupational accidents management at overseas production sites. On the other hand, some of the The point most deserving of recognition within the Konica items given in the social action targets and results could be Minolta Group’s environmental management efforts is the disclosed with quantitatively evaluated data. I recommend Group’s focus on reducing the environmental impact of its further consideration of how to improve disclosure quality on business activities at every stage of the life cycle. In recent years, such items. 41 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 External Assurance Konica Minolta engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to provide assurance on whether its CO2 emissions, energy use, petroleum-based resource usage in products, waste discharged externally, petroleum-based resource waste, packaging materials usage, atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and water consumption have been measured, gathered and disclosed in accordance with the criteria set by the Group, and on whether the Group’s statement of its GRI application level in the report is compliant with the reporting guidelines of the GRI. KPMG AZSA Sustainability has expressed its conclusion in its independent assurance report. Period: March – June 2011 Site inspection at the Kobe Site Assurance procedures being conducted Comments on the Assurance Process Naomi Sugo KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Last year, assurance was performed only for Konica Minolta’s data on the functions of these systems were not being fully utilized. For energy use and CO2 emissions, but this year, in order to improve the example, regarding data input that was missing or clearly erroneous, reliability of the report, additional assurance has been provided for it would be possible to arrange for an alert to be sent out whenever data on a number of other indicators, especially those related to the input values differ greatly from those for the previous month, or for Medium-Term Environmental Plan, such as waste discharged the same month of the previous year, thereby avoiding many errors. externally (weight of waste material, etc.) and atmospheric emissions By taking advantage of the computing power of information of VOCs. In addition, the Group has sought to improve the accuracy systems, Konica Minolta could achieve greater efficiency while at of reported indicators by, for example, unifying the distance data the same time ensuring more accurate numerical data. used for calculating CO2 emissions from distribution, which used to Double checking by people is important in order to improve vary from one business company to another. accuracy, but given the limited availability of human resources, it is Information systems were used by Konica Minolta to collect equally important to exploit information systems to detect and data on waste discharged externally and the energy use of prevent human error. domestic business locations, but there were some indications that KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2011 42 1-6-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0005, Japan For inquiries At Konica Minolta, we undertake the challenges Corporate Social Responsibility Division faced by our customers together with them Phone: +81-3-6250-2120 FAX: +81-3-3218-1363 and work relentlessly toward their success. E-mail: csr-support@konicaminolta.jp This report is printed on paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council using vegetable oil inks. 1109BCD
