Annual report Annual report 2011 the truth of 2011 – as we see it Highlights This is DNV At DNV, we combine risk methodology, We are also one of the world’s largest KEMA acquired to create world leader in energy and sustainability technology expertise and in-depth industry accredited certification bodies, servicing knowledge to enable our customers to a wide range of industries. DNV acquired 74.3% of the shares in safely and responsibly improve their Netherlands-based KEMA and formed DNV is an independent foundation DNV KEMA Energy & Sustainability. The new business performance. company combines all of KEMA’s 1,800 with no shareholders. Our more than employees with 500 employees from DNV’s Companies and authorities all over the 10,000 professionals are committed cleaner energy and sustainability operations, world rely on our independent assessment to our purpose of safeguarding life, creating a world-leading consulting and certification company within the cleaner and non-compromising standards of quality, property and the environment. energy, sustainability, power generation, safety and integrity to build the trust transmission and distribution sectors. and confidence of their stakeholders. DNV has balanced the needs of business and society since 1864, and we constantly We have become a trusted partner to the seek to develop and apply technical Breakthrough in container shipping Synergi Solutions acquired maritime, oil & gas and energy sectors by standards and best practices in order by DNV Software Of the main ship segments, DNV’s ship providing innovative and world-leading to positively contribute towards a safer classification strongholds are within the Two years ahead of plan, DNV’s own classification, certification, verification, and more sustainable world through our tanker, bulk, special-ship and passengersoftware house reached the important testing and advisory services to both businetwork of 300 offices in 100 countries. ship segments. In 2011, DNV had a real milestone of generating more than 70% breakthrough in the container-ship of its revenue from external customers. nesses and authorities in these industries. This was partly achieved through the market, with 19% of newbuildings being built to DNV Class. Seaspan’s order acquisition of Synergi Solutions, enabling for seven 10,000 TEU new-generation DNV Software to offer a complete set of riskcontainer vessels plus 18 options was based software for operational integrity the biggest container contract ever management and asset integrity to the energy, entered into in China. process, maritime and other industries. Our purpose Deepwater Horizon report published and Enforcement. DNV’s findings were one aspect of a much broader comprehensive DNV concluded the forensic examination of investigation into the causes of the DeepTo safeguard life, property the Deepwater Horizon blowout preventer water Horizon explosion, loss of life, casualty and the environment and submitted its report to the US Bureau loss and subsequent oil spill. DNV also put of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation forward a number of recommendations. Our vision Global impact for a safe and sustainable future Our values who we are what we do how we work HOW WE PERFORM Contents We build trust and confidence IFC Worldwide presence 18 Shipping 36 Corporate 50 Financial review We never compromise on quality or integrity 02 This is DNV 22 Oil and gas Responsibility 55 Notes 03 Highlights 26 Cleaner energy 38 People 66 Auditor’s report We are committed to teamwork and innovation 04 Key figures 30 Business assurance 40 Environment 67 Global Reporting We care for our customers and each other 05 Services 32 Sustainability 44 Health and safety Initiative (GRI) 06 CEO’s outlook Index 08 Board of Directors’ report 66 Contacts 13 Organisation 14 History 3 Worldwide presence Support of UN Global Compact principles DNV is committed to the universal principles of human and labour rights, environmental standards and anticorruption and signed the UN Global Compact in 2003. DNV works to continuously demonstrate responsible practice in these areas within its own organisation as well as advancing these principles with others through its objective to safeguard life, property and the environment. Høvik, oslo (headquarters) offices worldwide 300 With 300 offices in 100 countries, DNV has extensive global reach. employees worldwide 8,453 The number of employees was 8,453 at the end of 2011. Figure 01 employees by division AS PER 31.12.2011 Figure 02 employees by nationality AS PER 31.12.2011 Business Assurance Group 1,621 19.2% Nowegian 2,143 Dutch 235 Asia Pacific & Middle East 1,620 19.2% Chinese 717 Singaporean 213 Norway, Finland and Russia 1,594 18.9% American 615 Swedish 194 Europe & North Africa 1,155 13.7% Indian 484 German 180 Americas & Sub-Saharan Africa 889 10.6% British 443 Danish 179 Governance & Global Development 525 6.2% Korean 320 French 126 Independent Business Units 503 5.6% Brazilian 290 Japanese 113 Sustainability & Innovation 453 5.4% Italian 285 Malaysian 101 Corporate Staff Units 93 1.1% Polish 241 Spanish 90 Grand Total 8,453 100.0% Key figures Main services Figure 01 revenue (million NOK) Figure 02 operating profit (million NOK) 10,156 1,058 Maritime Oil and gas We help shipowners, We help oil and gas last five years last five years yards, authorities and companies manage techother maritime players nical and business risks, MNOK MNOK 1,188 12,000 10,283 9,792 10,156 1,200 1,108 1,058 to manage risks in all safety and environmental phases of a ship’s life. performance across 9,560 10,000 1,000 873 8,126 810 8,000 800 Services include: the entire value chain. 6,000 600 • Classification of ships and mobile offshore units Services include: • Certification of materials and components • Verification 4,000 400 • Technical, business risk and environmental • Safety, health and environmental services advisory services 2,000 200 • Asset risk management • Training and competence-related services • Technology qualification • Fuel testing 0 0 • Enterprise risk management • Software 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Software and IT risk management Figure 03 equity ratio (%) Figure 04 number of employees 61.0% 8,453 energy & Business assurance sustainability We help create trust and last five years last five years We support our customers confidence and assure % 8,694 8,867 8,440 8,453 across the energy value chain sustainable performance 80 70.6 8,000 7,691 in ensuring reliable, efficient for companies across a and sustainable energy supply 67.4 variety of industry sectors. 64.9 61.0 60 53.6 6,000 – now and in the future. Services include: 40 4,000 Services include: • Management system certification • Accredited Climate Change Services • Product certification • Management & Operations Consulting • Supply chain certification and assessment 20 2,000 • Cleaner Energy Services • Food safety certification • Transportation Systems • Training • Gas Consulting & Services • Healthcare accreditation and rating services 0 0 • Electricity Transmission & Distribution 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Testing, Inspections & Certification • Sustainable Use Services 4 5 The quest for safety and sustainability Historically, the shipping industry has In the oil and gas industry, exploraEver larger and more complex ships put class customer groups, we created a group strucand support a wide range of international been a core market, and this is still true tion and production activities are increasrules to the test. The combination poses ture with three separate companies which principles and standards, including the UN CEO’s today. Almost 50 years ago, our indepeningly taking place in harsher, deeper and challenges for classification societies and became operational from March 2012. Global Compact, and we take an active role in outlook dent status and technical expertise in the maritime industry allowed us to branch out more remote environments. That makes operations more complex and hence DNV is no exception. We have experienced worrying quality incidents in 2011. We are DNV Maritime and Oil & Gas serves our traditional maritime, offshore and oil & gas global initiatives such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. into the oil and gas sector, where we now increases the need for risk management taking this issue very seriously and have markets, providing them with third-party, In addition, in 2011, we obtained certificahave a firmly established global position. and for innovative, ground-breaking been quick to analyse root causes and technical and advisory services. DNV KEMA tion for our occupational health and safety From there, we have expanded into cleaner solutions. It also drives investments in launch a range of measures to ensure that Energy & Sustainability provides the same management system, complementing the energy, while also establishing a position offshore shipping, where there are more we continue to be the leading classification to the entire electricity and gas value chain. certification of our environmental manageas one of the world’s largest certification and more specialised vessels. DNV excels society when it comes to quality. DNV Business Assurance serves a wide range ment system. We also used our own Corporate bodies. With the acquisition of the majorin all of these areas and is helping to of industries as one of the world’s leading Integrity Profile tool to assess our operaTwo global concerns drive DNV’s ity shareholding in the energy consulting, turn today’s innovation into tomorrow’s As for the certification market, it has certification bodies, with a particular strongtions in 2011 and developed an action plan customer activities: improving certification and testing company KEMA, standards. a different dynamic than the other markets hold in Management System Certification and to deal with improvement areas. safety and enhancing sustainwe have also become an influential player in which we operate. Certification is an the Food & Beverage and Health Care sectors. able performance. 2011 saw us in the fields of power generation and The shipping industry in general is important and growing means for customers In sum, I am very proud of what we transmission, gas distribution and experiencing a tough spell, with overto build trust and stakeholder confidence achieved in 2011. Not just because of the strengthening our global industry sustainable energy use. capacity and a prolonged ship finance and is becoming increasingly important specific goals we reached and the impact positions and launching new So in order to further develop crisis. This also affects DNV, but we have in order to demonstrate sustainability. we had. It is just as much because we services and innovative approaches our various industry positions I am very excited about this new addiresponded by introducing cost-cutting With many small, national competitors, improved the foundation that enables and meet the needs of these to act on our ambitious vision: tion to DNV. The world’s ability to meet the programmes and making our organisation there is a clear consolidation trend among us to have even more impact tomorrow. rising energy demand while also addressing more agile and our service delivery more the global players. DNV’s business assurance different customer groups, we We only have impact when we are relevant. global impact for a safe and energy security, climate change, scarcity efficient. Also, we are continuing to invest entity is well positioned as a high-value, created a group structure with With the integrity, expertise and dedication sustainable future. This was three separate companies. of resources and ageing infrastructure heavily in research and innovation, not least quality provider and has managed to of our now more than 10,000 employees further strengthened by the issues relies on a major energy transition, in order to provide advice on more energygrow its revenue and profitability. around the globe, we have never been in a announcement of DNV’s largest including the integration of more renewefficient solutions and improving safety at better position to deliver services, knowledge ever acquisition towards the able power into the energy grids. Trillions sea. Shipping has always been cyclical, and Common to all of our businesses is that While our main impact on safety and and innovation that make a real difference end of the year. of dollars will be invested in this area over I am confident that DNV will emerge even we are on a constant quest to promote the sustainable performance is through our – to both business and society. the next few decades. Our ambition is to stronger once the current crisis is over. safety and sustainable performance agenda services, standards, guidelines and research have an impact on this transition towards It is also no secret that the ship newbuildin many different arenas. So in order to projects for industrial customers and authora cleaner, safer, more reliable and efficient ing frenzy over the last few years has put further develop our various industry posiities, we are constantly working to improve energy future. pressure on competent resource capacity. tions and meet the needs of these different our own operations. We are committed to 6 7 Board of Norway led the way in 2011 with some large tax of NOK 33 million which will be covered its current position as the world leader in new discoveries of oil and gas reservoirs, by other equity. The Board of Directors the classification of units for harsh and deepbut Australia, Brazil and West Africa also confirms that the going concern assumption water environments. Growing the business contributed to strong growth and optimistic applies and that the financial statements significantly along the entire gas value chain scenarios for the years to come leading to have been prepared on this assumption. is another goal during the strategy period. new business opportunities for DNV. Based on the goals achieved in 2011, the Combining KEMA’s service capabilities directors’ DNV took further initiatives to build a global Board decided to distribute a bonus of NOK relating to power generation, transmission position in the sustainability area during 2011. 100 million, corresponding to approximately and distribution and sustainable energy use Its climate change services, and in particular 2.5% of the basic salary, to all eligible permawith DNV’s renewable energy, climate change its Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) nent employees. and risk management services enables DNV activities, have grown in revenue and number The Board regards DNV’s market positions to take a giant step towards realising its straof projects, and now with a staff of more as satisfactory and financial status as strong. tegic goals for its sustainability and cleaner report than 150 professionals. Although the CDM Both aspects give the company a robust energy business operations. It also enables scheme was challenged, the UN negotiations platform from which to achieve its strategic DNV to be a leading player in the entire energy in Durban in December 2011 concluded to growth targets and maintain its independence value chain, from production well to end user, continue the scheme and DNV has maintained as a financially strong and trusted foundation. and reflects DNV’s vision of having a global its position as the leading climate change impact for a safe and sustainable future. validation and verification company. Strategy. The 2010–2014 strategy was After the creation of DNV Business Assurance formulated in 2009, underwent a revision as a separate legal entity in the DNV Group, in 2011 and was revised again in the first DNV considers research and this part of the business has demonstrated quarter of 2012 after the KEMA acquisition. innovation to be some of the most healthy growth and good profitability. As the The basic strategy and goals have not third largest certification body in the world, changed, and indeed the KEMA acquisition effective means of increasing DNV Business Assurance experienced an is fully aligned with the existing strategy, technological capabilities increased need for its management system which defines three main focus areas for DNV: and providing high quality certification services and maintained its maritime and oil & gas; energy & sustainservices to its customers. focus on building a leading position in the ability; and business assurance. These global food and beverage industry. have been organised into three separate organisational entities as previously The need for accredited management Financial performance. DNV achieved described. system certification is increasing following a 3.7% growth in operating revenue, from In the maritime business, DNV aims to be new standards and approaches in which comNOK 9,792 million in 2010 to NOK 10,156 the world’s leading classification society, pliance related to quality, the environment In order to realise its long-standing ambition marketing efforts, supported by dedicated million in 2011. The operating profit increased with quality being the number one priority. and sustainability is a driver for increased to positively impact the transition towards positioning through innovation, technology by NOK 248 million, or 31%, from NOK 810 An increased focus on technology innovation, activity and sales. DNV aspires to become the board of a low-carbon economy, DNV announced the and service delivery. million in 2010 to NOK 1,058 million in 2011. efficient energy use and protecting the marine world’s leading certification body through directors’ acquisition of 74.3% of the shares in KEMA N.V. in December 2011. This NetherlandsIn total, DNV managed to secure 281 new classification contracts in 2011, corresponding This represents an operating margin of 10.4%. The NOK 18 million negative return from environment represents opportunities for better supporting the customers. DNV will focussed growth. Accredited management system certification will remain at the core, report based energy consulting and certification to 12 million gross tonnes (GT). This gives an financial investments was more than offset by continue to promote the use of LNG as a but DNV Business Assurance will also grow its group has a world-leading position in the estimated market share of 14% in numbers the return on surplus liquidity in the money shipping fuel and cement its leading position second-party and supply chain certification, electrical power and transmission industry. and 22% in gross tonnes. The DNV-classed market and forward premiums on the currency in that segment. product certification, training and assessThis acquisition led to the formation on fleet has grown from 5,909 ships and mobile hedging contracts, leading to net financial ment services. 1 March 2012 of the DNV Group, which conoffshore units end of 2010 to 6,134 end of 2011. income of NOK 29 million in 2011. In addition to being the major supplier sists of three separate organisational entities: This represents a growth of 4%. A programme The tax cost in 2011 of NOK 358 million After the creation of DNV of strategic technical software to DNV, In 2011, DNV continued to perform DNV Maritime and Oil & Gas; DNV KEMA started in 2009 to secure the transfer of represents an average tax cost of 33%, which Business Assurance as a separate DNV Software aims to generate the majority strongly in all its key markets worldEnergy & Sustainability; and DNV Business more quality ships to DNV class from other is in line with 2010. of its revenue from customers outside of legal entity in the DNV Group, wide through its range of services Assurance. class societies was continued in 2011, resultThe net profit after tax for 2011 came to DNV by being a preferred vendor of technical NOK 730 million, compared to NOK 613 million this part of the business has ing in a net class entry result in a highly safety, design, assessment and asset managefor managing risk. The company demonstrated healthy growth Market positions. The maritime industry competitive market. for 2010 and NOK 854 million for 2009. ment software for the shipbuilding, offshore managed to secure a good share and good profitability. witnessed a short recovery in 2010, and this Capital investments in the oil and gas The cash flow for 2011 was positive. and process industries. of the newbuilding classification continued into 2011 bringing ship newbuilding industry increased by 10–15%, demonstratThe DNV Group has revenues and expenses market in a contracting shipping contracting during the first half of the year ing that oil will continue to be the dominant in more than 50 currencies. DNV has a natural Innovation. DNV considers research and market, while matching industry to a fairly high level. However, the second transportation fuel and that gas consumphedge in many currencies through a balance The overall goal in the oil and gas business is innovation to be some of the most effective growth rates in the oil and gas half of the year developed very differently tion is growing in the power, heating and of revenue and expenses. Major imbalances to become the world’s leading risk managemeans of increasing technological capabilsector. In addition, it managed with much lower new contracting in most transportation sectors as part of the tranon the balance sheet are hedged through ment services provider in challenging operaities and providing high quality services to its ship segments. All of the three main ship sition to a lower carbon economy. DNV forward exchange contracts. At the year-end tional environments. DNV’s main customers customers. The company continued in 2011 to strengthen its global position segments – container ships, tankers and bulk managed to grow its oil and gas business in 2011, DNV had forward exchange contracts here include oil and gas companies operating to invest around 6% of its revenue in research within the Business Assurance sector. carriers – have been affected by the slow-down line with the market in 2011, and continued totalling close to NOK 2,500 million. in the upstream sector, trunk pipeline operand development activities. Extraordinary DNV also announced its largest ever in world trade and continued over-capacity in to build on its strong global position within DNV has a strong balance sheet with no ators, drilling companies, construction yards, innovation projects were launched as a way acquisition, giving it a new global the world fleet. High oil prices and increased offshore safety. This was underpinned by the interest-bearing debt and total equity of manufacturers and contractors. It is a goal of taking a proactive approach to the economic position in the energy business. exploration and drilling activity resulted in a role DNV had in the post-Macondo invesNOK 6,092 million, or 61% of its total assets. to strengthen DNV’s position as a thought downturn, focusing on innovation and the boom in the mobile offshore units segments. tigations in the US. DNV was also active The equity has been reduced by NOK 917 leader in offshore safety. novel application of existing technology. DNV experienced a breakthrough in the in EU dialogues to direct discussion in the million due to an unrecognised net loss from DNV aims to increase its market share for DNV has developed several concept ships container ship segment, capturing 16% of the best direction in order to improve offshore the defined benefit pension plans. the classification of mobile offshore rigs as the basis for dialogues with ship owners, newbuilding contracts in 2011. This achievesafety practices and regimes. The accounts of the parent company, Det and vessels associated with the expanding yards and designers in order to find solutions ment is mainly due to long-term, targeted Norske Veritas Foundation, show a loss after offshore energy industry and to maintain and innovations in response to emerging 8 9 market needs and new regulatory requireAt the year-end 2011, DNV had 8,453 In order to further strengthen DNV’s focus Corporate risk management. The Corporate Responsibility. DNV is highly In the energy sector, the trend is towards ments. DNV received the Lloyd’s List Global employees, compared to 8,440 at the yearon Corporate Governance, the Board of Board of Directors acknowledges the imporcommitted to Corporate Responsibility (CR), increased production from deep and ultraInnovation Award in 2011 for its concept ship end 2010. The turnover of personnel was Directors initiated a review of DNV’s corpotance of continuously having a correct underand in 2011 it was a priority to integrate deep offshore fields, with growing markets for an LNG-fuelled crude oil tanker. DNV has 10.4% in 2011, up from 8.8% in 2010. The rate governance model. The review will be standing of the risks facing DNV that could CR even more into business and operations. in Brazil, Gulf of Mexico, Australia, South also developed a ground-breaking concept increase is mainly due to stronger competiexecuted by external consultants early 2012 affect corporate values, reputation and key As a consequence, the composition of DNV’s East Asia and Africa. New discoveries on for long offshore gas pipelines in deep and tion for skilled and experienced people in a and the project will report to the Board of business objectives. DNV has processes in CR Board has been adjusted to include more the Norwegian continental shelf and in the ultra-deep waters. heated oil and gas sector. Consequently, the Directors in the April 2012 meeting. Subseplace to identify such risks at an early stage members from the operational part of the Barents Sea will also bring more investments The Technology Outlook 2020 report need to retain and recruit staff has led to a quently the Board of Directors will present in order to initiate corresponding risk mitiorganisation. This should help to make CR and optimism into a mature Norwegian oil published in 2011 was another important number of initiatives, including an ongoing the project findings and recommendations gating measures, assign roles and responsiissues and challenges more relevant and industry, while the risk of political instability means of engaging many key stakeholders project to renew processes and resources to the Council and discuss follow-up actions. bilities and evaluate whether the residual practical for daily operations. following the Arab Spring and escalation of around the world in discussions about for employer branding, recruitment and The Board work is governed by written risk is acceptable. Since 2010, DNV has been committed to the conflict between Iran and the West may technology. The report presented global on-boarding. Competence development instructions and an annual plan. In 2011 the DNV calculates its net risk financing capaextending the scope and detail level of its negatively affect investment levels in that megatrends and predicted uptake and programmes are also being further strengthBoard had eight board meetings of which city on an annual basis, taking into account sustainability reporting by aiming for a Global part of the world. Natural gas is expected impact of new technologies by 2020. ened from an already high level. two were extraordinary. The Board member the most important risk factors. This gives Reporting Index Application Level A+ by 2014. to play a more prominent role in the global attendance in 2011 was close to 100%. The the Board of Directors an overview of the In accordance with the roadmap created to energy mix, primarily due to the US shale Organisation. As of 1 March 2012, Board completed self-assessments of its own key quantified risks and the capacity to take achieve this target, an internal assessment of gas boom. This will drive many new activities DNV has a group structure consisting of work and the results were reported to the on additional risk. the 2010 Annual Report was conducted and but could have adverse effects on the The percentage of female three separate organisational entities; Election committee. In 2011, a number of risks on the top of the gap analysis has been used to improve the American renewables energy market. employees is at an all-time high DNV Maritime and Oil & Gas, DNV Business More information on DNV’s Corporate the corporate agenda were discussed at the 2011 Annual Report. The reporting for 2011 Although carbon pricing has remained Assurance and DNV KEMA Energy & Sustainat 33% of the total workforce, Governance can be found at: Board of Directors’ meetings. One of these meets the requirements of level B in the GRI fragile and at a low level, DNV believes that ability. while 23% of all managers dnv.com / moreondnv was compliance with international sanctions. reporting system. DNV is also committed to the the coming years will see drivers for a more In the reporting year, however, DNV’s are female, which is also This specifically led to DNV closing down all UN Global Compact, which it signed in 2003. commercially viable renewable energy sector. organisational structure was the same as an all-time high. Health, safety and the environment. its activities in Iran and cancelling Flag State From a long-term perspective, DNV is investin 2010, with four geographical divisions, DNV was certified to the OHSAS 18001 standagreements with Iran in 2011. Future Outlook. The Board of Directors ing to build a new global position through a Sustainability and Innovation Division, ard in 2011, demonstrating its commitment A second area of concern to the Board of believes that the oversupply of ships will its investment in KEMA, complementing a Global Governance and Development DNV has an equal opportunity policy for all to managing all aspects of occupational Directors is the challenging political relationcontinue to impact its shipping business in its strong positions in the maritime and Division, three independent business units, employees, irrespective of their nationality, health and safety in the organisation. This ship between the Chinese and Norwegian the coming years, even though DNV was oil & gas industries. and DNV Business Assurance as a separate gender or age. As a result of a systematic relates to employees and contractors as well governments. This situation is threatening successful in winning a large percentage The replacement of ageing transmission legal entity. Of the three Independent approach to improving diversity in the as visitors to DNV premises. Company-wide DNV’s growth ambitions in China, and a number of the newbuilding classification contracts grids is a priority in Europe and North America, Business Units (IBUs), DNV Software acquired organisation, 69% of all managers are from health and safety reporting is an important of initiatives are in place or being considered in 2010 and 2011. The fleet growth is in and the electrification of the developing Synergi, a Norway-based software company, countries outside Scandinavia and the number part of this management system approach. to minimise the negative effect this has on excess of trade growth and the capacityworld is continuing at a rapid pace. Energy IT Global Services was divested through a of local managers has increased from 76.6% These reports are closely monitored in order DNV’s business in China. demand balance is not expected to be fully transportation through electricity and more management buy-out, while DNV Petroleum to 79.1%. The percentage of female employees to continuously identify improvement potenThe risk of quality issues in DNV represents re-established during the next few years. energy efficient solutions will continue to Services continued as before. is at an all-time high at 33% of the total worktial, enabling DNV to comply with ambitious another area of concern. Numerous barriers This is assumed to lead to continued lower grow in importance. Combining the globally force, while 23% of all managers are female, health and safety standards throughout exist to minimise the chance of such events ship newbuilding prices and second-hand recognised expertise of KEMA within these which is also an all-time high. the organisation. In 2011, 711 work-related occurring and DNV’s quality management ship values, increased scrapping, depressed areas with DNV’s position within wind energy, In order to realise its longThe Board acknowledges the hard work incidents and hazards were reported, an system is constantly being scrutinised to freight and charter rates, and price pressure climate change services and sustainability and commitment displayed by the manageincrease of 15% compared with 2010. DNV ensure that we are managing this risk in on all service providers to the industry. provides DNV with an excellent platform standing ambition to positively ment and employees in 2011. has good reason to believe this increase is a satisfactory manner. However, previously placed orders will to extend its reach into these important impact the transition towards the result of the company-wide focus on the In any large organisation with a wide secure a relatively high level of newbuilding markets. a low-carbon economy, DNV Corporate governance. The Board importance of reporting incidents and hazards, geographical presence, there is a risk of activity throughout 2012. DNV is well posiThe Board of Directors believes that DNV announced the acquisition considers sound corporate governance to rather than a worsening of occupational unethical behaviour amongst its employees. tioned to exploit opportunities and needs has the global positions, competence and of 74.3% of the shares in be paramount to secure trust in DNV and health and safety standards. The Board of Directors was in 2011 presented in certain high-value shipping segments, resources that will be required in order to KEMA N.V. in December 2011 to be a cornerstone for achieving the greatDNV’s ambitions to reduce its environwith the results of an internal Corporate especially those which are offshore-related. provide guidance and support in a business est possible value creation over time in the mental impact reflect its core values and Integrity Profiling (CIP) study which assessed Green shipping, innovation and more energyenvironment where the need for technical best interests of the company’s customers, purpose of safeguarding life, property and DNV’s resistance to fraud and corruption risks, efficient ship types will also represent expertise, governance and risk management The yearly People Engagement Survey, employees and other stakeholders. the environment. The company impacts the and appropriate risk mitigating measures opportunities for DNV and the shipbuilding is evident. carried out among all employees, revealed Det Norske Veritas Foundation’s formal environment positively through its services have been initiated based on the findings. industry in general. strong overall improvements since 2010. corporate governance framework is the and operations and the behaviour of its staff. DNV exceeds the norm of high performing Norwegian Foundation Act. This Act preDNV’s own activities do not have a significompanies in a number of key areas: opporscribes that a foundation must have a Board cant negative impact on the environment. tunity to develop, job satisfaction, empowerof Directors and that only the areas of authorThroughout 2011, DNV continued its efforts ment and involvement; respect; and SHE. ity exhaustively specified in the Act may be to reduce its employees’ air travel, and the The Board of Directors of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, Høvik, 19 April 2012 The most significant improvements relate placed with other bodies. In DNV, such areas introduction of advanced video conferencing to performance management, employees’ of authority rest with the DNV Council. facilities has proven successful in this respect. intention to stay with DNV and customer The Norwegian Corporate Governance The ‘We Do’ programme was continued, focus, while the most significant declines Code (‘NUES’) does not apply directly to making MNOK 30 available for employees relate to compensation. DNV is slightly below DNV as a foundation without shareholders. to introduce measures to reduce emissions in Leif-Arne Langøy Morten Ulstein C. Thomas Rehder John H. Wiik Hilde M. Tonne Chairman the high performing companies’ benchmark However, DNV recognizes NUES as an importheir private lives. More than 3,000 employees for employee engagement (commitment and tant guideline for the implementation of applied for funds in 2011. In addition to loyalty) and is well ahead of the benchmark a sound governance model relevant for a more effective environment practices this on employee enablement (creating a work foundation. It is the ambition of the Board of programme is also important in order to Frances Morris-Jones Wei Chen Odd Sund Sille Grjotheim Mette Bandholtz Henrik O. Madsen environment where people feel productive Directors that DNV will report on Corporate enhance motivation and awareness of Chief Executive Officer and efficient). Governance in accordance with NUES for 2012. environment-related initiatives. 10 11 Board of directors Organisation Throughout 2011, DNV was organised in six pendent Business Units with their own Group structure DNV Group as per 01.03.2012 divisions: four geographical divisions servboards consisting of Executive Committee ing primarily the maritime, oil & gas and members and senior managers from DNV. cleaner energy sectors as well as a Sustainability & Innovation Division and a Global On 1 March 2012, this organisation was Governance and Development Division. replaced by a group structure containing three separate companies: DNV Maritime In addition, DNV’s business assurance and Oil & Gas, DNV Business Assurance DNV Maritime DNV Business DNV KEMA activities were organised in a separate and DNV KEMA Energy & Sustainability. and Oil & Gas Assurance Energy & legal entity headquartered in Milan, Italy. Sustainability Furthermore, DNV Petroleum Services More on the new organisation can be found at: Petroleum Services and DNV Software operated as Indednv.com / moreondnv /profile/organisation Software Organisation as per 31.12.2011 Replaced by Group structure on 01.03.2012 – see above CEO 3 9 1 2 4 8 6 5 7 President Finance and legal human resources Business Assurance Group Division Division Division Division Division Division Indenpendent Asia, Pacific Americas and Europe and Norway, Finland Sustainability Governance Business Units and Middle East Sub-Saharan Africa North Africa and Russia and Innovation and Global Development Petroleum Services Software Board of Directors MANAGEMENT AS PER 31.12.2011 1 LEIF-ARNE LANGØY 2 SILLE GRJOTHEIM 4 HILDE M. TONNE 5 WEI CHEN 7 FRANCES 9 C. THOMAS REHDER The Executive Committee, Henrik O. Madsen Jostein Furnes Remi Eriksen Ioannis Kourmatzis Bjørn K. Haugland Chairman of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board MORRIS-JONES Member of the Board which is the CEO’s manChief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer of Directors since June since 2007. Elected since 2008. Executive since April 2011, elected Member of the Board since November 2009. agement team, consisted 2011. Member and Vice by the Norwegian Vice President with by the employees of since June 2009. Managing partner of Appointed CEO of DNV Held position since 2006. Division Asia, Pacific Division Europe Division Sustainability of ten people in 2011. and Middle East and North Africa and Innovation Chairman of the Board employees of DNV. the Telenor Group since DNV outside Europe. Formerly Vice-President, Carsten Rehder GmbH The Executive Committee in 2006. He joined DNV Joined DNV in 1988. since June 2010. Former Head of the Department 2007. Currently Head Principle surveyor in Renewal at BP and & Co KG. Vice president deals with issues and in 1982 and has held Held position since 2010. Held position since 2010. Held position since 2006. chairman and CEO of Rules and Standards of Group Industrial Jiangyin Station, China. Global Business European Community decisions related to senior positions in all Cecilie B. Heuch Joined DNV in 1990. Joined DNV in 1976. Joined DNV in 1990. Aker ASA. Former chairat the Høvik office. Development. Deputy Joined DNV in 2000. Development Manager Shipowners Associations, strategy, budgeting, of DNV’s business areas, Chief Human Resources man of Aker Solutions Joined DNV in 1993. Head of Telenor Asia at ConocoPhillips. Chairman maritime and financial development, at both headquarters and Organisation Office ASA and Aker Yards ASA. region 2010–2011. 6 METTE BANDHOLTZ Currently Business port committee of the investments, pricing and regional level. Elisabeth H. Tørstad Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen Olav Nortun He is also the Chairman 3 MORTEN ULSTEIN Former member of the Member of the Board Development Director Hamburg Chamber strategy, major manageHeld position since 2006. Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer of Sparebanken Møre, Vice Chairman of the board of Statkraft ASA. since April 2011, at 3Legs Resources. of Commerce. ment appointments, Tor E. Svensen Joined DNV in 2004. Division Americas and Division Norway, Division Governance a director of Istad AS, Board. Member of the elected by the European markets and customers. President and Deputy CEO Sub-Saharan Africa Finland and Russia and Global Development and Vice Chairman of Board since June 2011. JOHN H. WIIK employees outside 8 ODD SUND The Resource Group AS Chairman of the Island Member of the Board Norway. Senior support Elected Member of the Appointed President in Held position since 2010. Held position since 2010. Held position since 2010. (TRG). Offshore Group of since 2003. Managspecialist in Esbjerg Board by the Norwegian 2010 and has acted as Joined DNV in 1995. Joined DNV in 1990. Joined DNV in 1990. companies and various ing Director of the office, Denmark. employees in June 2009. deputy CEO since 2006. other Directorships in Norwegian Hull Club. Joined DNV in 1989. Principal engineer Joined DNV in 1993. private as well as pubNot present when at the Høvik office. licly listed companies. photo was taken. Joined DNV in 1981. Former CEO of Rolls Royce Commercial Marine Division. 12 13 The history DNV’s history is rooted in the maritime sector, starting in 1864. Since then, DNV has added new dimensions to its business: Energy, Internationalisation, Certification and lately Sustainability. 1864 1867 1870 1872 1864–80 1883 1888 1900 1907 1910 MARITIME DNV is established Agents, and later Steamships are introSamuel Plimsoll starts First phase of growth, Norway has the third First DNV surveyor Close to 100% of DNV loosens its ties The Norwegian by Norwegian insurance permanent surveyors, duced in the 1870’s, the process leading to both in shipping in largest fleet in the stationed in China. the DNV-classed ships to the insurance clubs parliament votes on companies as a national appointed in a number and most of the sailing the compulsory load lines general and in the world, measured in were for Scandinavian and becomes a regular regulations for compulsory alternative to foreign of countries to serve ships are phased out on every British ship, DNV-classed fleet. registered tonnage. shipowners. certification and Norwegian load lines. classification societies. Norwegian vessels by the 1920’s. put into force in 1891. classification society. abroad. 20 0 400 oYee s o e es empl 957 empl 47 by 19 by 1 1912 1914 1920 1940 1945 1948 1951 1953 1954 1964 1967 1968 Following the Titanic The first International From 1920 to 1940 During the Second After the war, this coThe International Georg F. Vedeler is As the first classification DNV takes a significant DNV is finally united The golden age for Foundation of the disaster, safety at sea Convention for the diesel engines are World War, DNV is operation culminates in Maritime Organisation appointed managing society to do so, DNV and pioneering step in one headquarters. both shipping and DNV. International Association becomes the subject of Safety of Life at Sea introduced as propuldivided in two; one half a proposal by Lloyd’s to (IMO) is created. director of DNV. publishes new rules, by establishing a The DNV fleet grows to The internationalisation of Class Societies (IACS). increasing public concern, (SOLAS) is adopted sion on new ships. in Newcastle, UK, and buy DNV, and thereafter He introduces a scienbased on an analytical dedicated Research almost 20 million gross and expansion of the and grows from simply in response to the DNV is quick to adopt one half remained in to a liberalisation process tific approach to ship and theoretical department. tonnes (GT), twice as Society takes off. safeguarding the ship sinking of the Titanic. this new technology and the occupied Norway. in DNV and the work aims construction. His vision scientific approach. much as in 1960. to safeguarding ‘engineering surveyors’ This leads to a close coat developing new class is to build safer ships passengers. are recruited. operation with Lloyd’s. rules. The co-operation in a more profitable way. between Lloyd’s and DNV is subsequently terminated in 1952. 1000oYee s empl 972 by 1 1970 1975–79 1978 1980 1981 1990 1997 2000 2002 ENERGY DNV enters the oil The Berge Istra DNV becomes The Alexander Kielland DNV Petroleum CERTIFICATION The ISO standards Managing Risk is International owners The number of business, in both the and Berge Vanga an independent platform disaster in the Services is estabare introduced and introduced as DNV’s represent 70% of the DNV-classed vessels offshore installations accidents occur. foundation. North Sea. Regulations are lished adding marine DNV quickly grows its corporate promise, DNV fleet. passes 5,000. INTERNATIONand cargo sectors, subsequently improved. fuel management management system reflecting DNV’s core including pipelines ALISATION: to DNV’s expertise. certification activities. competence of identiand vessels. This fying, assessing and develops into a new managing risk. important market. 5800oyee s 8 50 0 empl 0 0 4 oYee s by 2 empl 010 by 2 2004 2004 2005 2008 2009 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 DNV becomes the first Risk Based Certification DNV acquires Cortest DNV acquires Global DNV opens a Sustainability DNV opens Clean DNV acquires Behnke, The Deepwater Horizon Report is submitted with DNV acquires 74.3% DNV Group is established company to be accredited introduced, representColumbus Technologies Energy Concepts, Centre in Beijing. Technology Centre Erdman and Whitaker accident in the Gulf DNV’s conclusions of its of the shares in KEMA, with three separate SUSTAINABILITY by the United Nations ing a revitalisation of (CCT) – specialising a US based wind power in Singapore. Engineering (BEW) to of Mexico. forensic examination of creating a world-leading operating companies: Framework Convention management system in corrosion control, consulting firm with strengthen its position the Deepwater Horizon consulting and certifiDNV Maritime and Oil on Climate Change to certification. pipeline and plant 95 employees. within solar, wind, power blowout preventer cation company within & Gas, DNV Business validate climate change integrity analyses and transmission and grid the cleaner energy, Assurance and DNV KEMA mitigation projects under material evaluation for DNV approved to accredit integration. sustainability, power Energy & Sustainability. the CDM (Clean Developthe pipeline industry. hospitals in the US. generation, transmission ment Mechanism) scheme. and distribution sectors. 1864–1970 1970–1980 1980–1990 1990–2004 2004–2004 15 what we do We enable our customers to safely and responsibly improve their business performance and to turn risks into rewards. We assess, certify and verify compliance with standards, regulations and best practices and provide independent advisory services to help optimise the technical, operational, business, environmental and societal performance of close to 100,000 customers worldwide. In short, we tell the objective truth to help businesses and authorities build the trust and confidence of their stakeholders and to provide the best possible decision support. Moreover, 6% of our revenue is invested in research and development to search for tomorrow’s truths and offer innovative services in the following sectors: Shipping Oil and Gas Cleaner energy Business Assurance Sustainability Enhancing handled through normal surveys. For many, DNV Petroleum Services introduced Fuel For new contracts signed in 2011, the market potentially critical safety issues were turned Insight, a web-based data analytics product share was higher – 21.1%. In numbers, this into successful improvements in condition. that shows ship operators where – and from meant an increase from 5,670 to 5,888 ships As a tool at the other end of the age scale which suppliers – they can procure fuel which during the year. – for newbuildings – DNV introduced yields the best value for money. Buying and DNV’s market share at year-end at China’s the world’s first class rules for wind farm receiving the right bunker quality is half the three largest shipyards demonstrates a service vessels on 1 January 2011. Another fuel management process. The other half strong position in Chinese shipbuilding: quality and first from DNV in 2011 was the new class comprises efficient onboard fuel handling Rongsheng 80%, DSIC 60% and Jinhai 40%. rules for battery-powered ships. Developand consumption, which Fuel Insight can also A strong position among Korean yards is ments in lithium-ion battery technology help operators to benchmark against best demonstrated by DNV’s market share at mean that these batteries can now be used practices. the three largest yards there: Daewoo 32%, both in hybrid propulsion systems and for The stricter regulation and extension of Hyundai 24% and Samsung 21%. ‘pure’ battery-driven vessels. A full-scale Emission Controlled Areas (ECAs) have put furresearch and innovation project is under way ther pressure on fuel choices, costs and quality. ARCTIC ACTIVITY. The focus on the Arctic safety at sea to install batteries on board the Viking Lady, ECAs have already been established in the Baltic trade and its opportunities is also increasing. an offshore support vessel. Sea and the North Sea and will be enforced Although this is still a limited market, the fact along the North American coastline too. Other that 34 vessels sailed the Northern Sea Route The environment and fuel efficiency. areas are expected to follow. DNV launched from Europe to Asia in 2011 compared to four Fuel prices ranged from around USD 600 to a new ECA Survival Kit last summer to assist in 2010 seems to indicate further growth. USD 700 per tonne in 2011, not far off the operators with the legislation. ECAs are also The next input to IMO’s ongoing work to record level of USD 767 set in June 2008. a driving force behind many exciting oppordevelop a mandatory Polar Code for both Combined with sustained rock-bottom freight tunities for introducing cleaner fuel, notably the Arctic and Antarctic is expected to be rates for most segments throughout 2011, LNG. DNV classed 24 out of 25 LNG-fuelled completed by the correspondence group in vessel owners and operators have become vessels operating at the year-end 2011. Another 2012 for further processing in IMO. DNV is increasingly focused on reducing fuel costs 25 new DNV-classed LNG-fuelled vessels are on actively contributing to the Code’s developfor their vessels in operation and when order. IMO’s adoption of the Energy Efficiency ment as part of its commitment to furthering ordering new vessels. Design Index (EEDI) for new ships demonstrates safety and quality in tune with the changing In 2011, a new generation of 10,000 TEU a commitment to environmental goals. Future needs of the maritime industry. highly energy-efficient container vessels was ships will have to meet mandatory improvecontracted in China by Seaspan Ltd. These ments in energy efficiency towards 2025. vessels represent a major step forward in terms Other achievements in 2011 of both design and operational efficiency. BALLAST WATER MANAGEMENT. The Ballast AVOIDING ACCIDENTS. The total number of Simulators are viewed as essential in modern Compared to current designs, the cargo capaWater Management Convention will enter into INNOVATION AWARD. As proof serious accidents declined significantly in 2011. seafarer training and, in order to improve city has been increased by 10% and fuel conforce within the next two years and require all focus on In 2007 to 2010, approximately 1,900 serious expertise on board ships, the Standard for sumption reduced by 20%. The new design ships and offshore structures to clean their of DNV’s innovation achievements, the Triality VLCC (Very Large Crude Carrier) shipping accidents per year were reported, but the total for 2011 fell to 1,425. The number of Maritime Simulator Systems was revised in 2011 and the new Standard for Test Centres significantly reduces ballast water requirements. Also in 2011, DNV released fuel savballast water. This will have a major effect on operations and involve major investments in concept won one of the world’s highest ranked maritime awards – the Lloyd’s total losses also dropped from almost 500 in for Certification of Personnel was developed. ing guidelines for bulk carriers, tankers and technology. DNV established itself early on List Global Award for the best innova1980 to around 250 in 2000 and 125 in 2011. The revised DNV standard for maritime simulacontainer vessels that provide an overview as the leading class society for type approval tion project in 2011. Triality is a concept However, one specific incident has remindtors is aligned with the revised STCW code and of the different measures which are feasible. and standard setting for the new ballast crude oil tanker that is fuelled by LNG, ed DNV of the importance of maintaining contains 84 new competence areas for the use Throughout the year, DNV was involved in water treatment systems being developed. has a hull shape that removes the need an extended quality focus in all parts of a of simulators, including offshore simulators. a wide range of fuel-saving projects. Examples With 21 confirmed type approval projects, for ballast water and will considerably class society’s work. In December last year, The very first certificate following this new include assisting Høegh Autoliners to reduce DNV far exceeds other class societies and has reduce emissions to air. Shipping plays an essential role in the Vale Beijing, a very large ore carrier, standard for test centres was issued in early its fuel consumption and thus emissions by become the industry’s preferred technical the global economy and aims to faced problems when loading in Brazil. 2012 to the Ship Modelling and Simulation around 21%. Across a range of about 50 and advisory partner. No stone must be left unturned to ensure Centre in Trondheim, Norway. different projects throughout the industry, ensure safe and reliable transporthat lessons are learnt from this and that In 2011, DNV’s Emergency Response Service HULL INTEGRITY AND MAINTENANCE. By the HEAVY LIFTING. The world’s largest normal savings were in the range of 8–20%. heavy lift vessel, 275 metres long and tation. The complex risks facing similar problems are avoided. (ERS) was extended to include and support year-end 2011, 65 vessels were part of DNV’s 80 metres wide, pushed existing design the shipping industry today mean offshore units in addition to ships. TwentyHull Integrity Management (HIM) scheme, boundaries in 2011. The vessel, ordered 14.6% that everyone involved needs to MODERN TRAINING AND COMPETENCE three incidents worldwide were handled by which resulted in 3,000 observations due to by Dockwise, has no forecastle so it can DEVELOPMENT. Highly skilled and experienced the 24/7 ERS team last year. As an example, 1,300 inspections by 220 inspectors. Charterers focus on quality and safety as a carry cargo of ‘unlimited’ length and is surveyors represent the core competence of all the MS Nordlys, a passenger vessel that was notice better maintained vessels, maintefirst priority. Classification societies the first semisubmersible heavy lift vessel class societies. Training and experience sharing damaged by a critical fire and could have nance costs are dropping, the risk of accidents of the world’s sailing fleet is to be built to DNV’s new class rules. have a key role to play through were recently enhanced when DNV ‘brought’ capsized at the quay in Ålesund, Norway, classed by DNV (in gross tonnes). is reduced and compliance with regulations appropriate regulations, inspecships and MOUs to surveyors’ fingertips. A was given vital assistance last September. and standards is easier to achieve. HIM helps comprehensive 3D survey simulator, including owners and operators to do this efficiently. tions and technical assistance. MILESTONE FOR PORT CLEARthousands of survey findings and damage cases, ADRESSING SAFETY – FOR OLD AND NEW DNV also released a new toolbox to achieve ANCE SOFTWARE. A milestone was 21.1% has been developed and is available in a largeSHIPS. DNV has also set up a programme to better hull maintenance planning by forereached in the autumn of 2011 when scale training lab as well as on the laptop of deal with vessels that have potentially critical casting corrosion wastage and related cost DNV Navigator number 2,000 was every DNV surveyor. Through the use of 3D, safety issues. A group of DNV’s highest skilled scenarios. This will ensure better estimates of installed on board the HS Chopin in this tool is as close as possible to real life. It and most experienced surveyors act as a flying steel and coatings that need to be renewed. of ship newbuilding contracts Hamburg. DNV Navigator is a software does not replace onboard training but is an squad and in 2011 they handled 42 out of 318, signed in 2011 were to DNV Class package that simplifies port clearance important addition that rapidly increases the mainly elderly, vessels which were identified Market. At the end of 2011, DNV’s esti(in gross tonnes). procedures for ships’ crews. pace of learning. A growing number of DNV through DNV’s internal quality monitoring mated share of the ships in operation market surveyors benefitted from this new tool in 2011. system as needing attention. The rest were – measured in gross tonnes – was 14.6%. 18 19 offshore shipping leading the way 375$BN Despite the challenging market situation for shipping in general, a few segments experience interesting opportunities. Shipping related to offshore energy is such a case, and the outlook here remains strong. In 2011, the continued high energy prices drove investment in new oil and gas field developments offshore, and the trend is towards 200 $BN deeper waters. This has resulted in a high demand for advanced offshore support vessels capable of operating in deep water. 2014 [1] 2013 2012 2011 More new 2010 discoveries are offshore hore Offs r ation – and longer o on ex p l uc ti from shore pro d and l ta c a pi d it u r e s n e x pe [2] Activities at increased water depths [3] More subsea developSu b ment se a Lo n g f lo ate r i n o -te rm f t (I N T f s h o r r e n d SO K e sp 19 9 4 ) end 20 0 0 fixe in g d 20 0 6 2 01 2 2 01 8 2 02 4 203 0 offshore shipping Cutting edge Floating production storage Designed to receive hydroMobile Production Units The need for shuttle and offloading (FPSO) carbons produced from tankers is increasing. A moveable offshore platform nearby platforms or subsea The most advanced shuttle (semi-submersible or jack-up) template, process them, tankers ever built were or FPSO with facilities to extract, and store oil until it can The high level of oil and gas be offloaded onto a tanker delivered by Samsung in process, store and offload Wind turbine exploration and production or transported through Korea to Teekay and oil and gas. installation vessel means that the demand Shuttle-tanker classed by DNV a pipeline. for sophisticated, high in 2011. The construction of large spec vessels is high. Designed for oil transport Total fleet DNV Classed offshore wind farms have 256 22% DNV is the leading class from an offshore oil field. given rise to this new class of society for large oil tanker oil tankers. It is equipped with offloading DNV is the leading classi25 ship. The vessels are selfequipment compatible with shuttle tankers 78 propelled and self-elevating fication society in the Designed for the bulk transport of oil. % the oil field in question. Mobile Drilling Units vessels fitted for the purpose offshore shipping segment. Moves large quantities of unrefined % drillship of installing large wind crude oil from its point of extraction market share A moveable offshore platform when Measured in turbines offshore. to refineries. Classified by their size gross tonnes Total fleet DNV Classed market share (semi-submersible or jack-up) when Measured in Fitted with drilling apparatus. 70 75% (GT) as well as their occupation. gross tonnes or drillship with facilities to drill (GT) It is most often used for explorawells and extract oil and gas. tory offshore drilling of new oil or gas wells in deep water or for Total fleet DNV Classed scientific drilling. Can also be used 12,178 12% Total fleet DNV Classed 788 19% as a platform to carry out well Anchor Handling maintenance or completion work Tug Supply (AHTS) such as casing and tubing installation or subsea tree installations. High tech seismic Mainly built to handle anchors for Seismic vessel oil rigs, tow them to location and Contracts for the new generation anchor them. Fitted with winches of Ramform seismic vessels for Seismic research vessels for towing and anchor handling. PGS were signed last summer and Can, as the name suggest, Offshore Support Vessel (OSV) are designed to detect these ships are now being built at perform multiple operations, geological features which Mitsubishi Heavy Industries in Japan. including that of carrying Covers a wide range of vessel types are likely to bear oil or gas. When completed in 2013, they will out subsea installation from anchor handling (AHTS /AHT), be the most technically advanced services and operate seismic, survey, platform support, seismic vessels, featuring 3D Multi purpose remotely operated underdiving support and standby vessels. seismic data acquisition and offshore vessel water vehicles (ROVs). analysis capability. Total fleet DNV Classed 5,071 20% SUBSEA DEVELOPMENT – DEEPER AND DEEPER The oil and gas industry Platform supply vessel is delving into deeper and (PSV) more remote fields and new exploration activities are also 1979 300 1/3 Designed to supply offshore heading for ultra-deep-waters. 1985 These fields are often located oil platforms. Transportation WATER DEPTH several hundred kilometers (AVERAGE) WATER DEPTH of goods and personnel to and from land, and at ever 30 (AVERAGE) deeper waters. from offshore oil platforms 100 new OSVs were of all OSVs ordered in and other offshore structures. ordered last year, 2011 were to DNV Class 1995 of which 100 were and over 50% of the METERS WATER DEPTH above 3,000 dwt. world’s 1,000 largerst METERS (AVERAGE) 250 OSVs are classed by DNV. 2002 Viking Lady WATER DEPTH – the electrical ship METERS (AVERAGE) 500 The Viking Lady is not like any other 2006 offshore supply ship. The three-year-old LNG-fuelled vessel was the very first merchant METERS WATER DEPTH Leading (AVERAGE) ship to use a fuel cell as part of its propulsion 2009 750 the way for LNG system and it is one of the world’s most WATER DEPTH When it comes to the use environmentally friendly ships. A true (AVERAGE) 950 of LNG as a shipping fuel, hybrid energy system is currently being METERS the offshore segment is among developed for installation on board Subsea development New vessel requirements the front runners. A total of six the vessel as a result of a DNV-led There is a clear trend that production As oil production and exploration is moving OSVs using LNG propulsion were research project with the equipment is moving from the sea into deeper and harsher environment, METERS built from 2003 to 2011. By the owner Eidesvik Offshore surface to the sea bed. This requires the demand for ships in this segment will end of 2011, six new vessels and Wärtsilä. new and advanced type of vessels for continue to growth. Few vessels built before had been ordered – all both installation and operation activities. 1995 are tailored for deep sea operations. to DNV Class. Offshore DNV has communicated with the Commission about the risk level presented in Booming offshore. Brazil is spearheading the increased activity in offshore oil figure 01 Offshore investment forecast – INTSOK (BILLion USD) safety on the EU’s proposal. Based on its extensive and gas exploration and production. Mexico, risk expertise and experience, DNV has exIndia, China and Australia are all involved Norway pressed doubts as to the justification and in deeper water prospects, and several large US GoM accuracy of the Commission’s assessments. fields are coming on-stream in Africa. The Commission’s proposal will be debated DNV has opened a Deepwater Technology Brazil in detail by the Council and European Centre for the Asia-Pacific region in Singapore UK everybody’s Parliament throughout 2012. In any case, to serve the rapidly expanding offshore and Australia regulatory regimes in both the US and EU deep-water oil and gas developments in the Nigeria will undergo changes in the aftermath of region. The centre focuses on subsea operaMexico the Deepwater Horizon accident. tions, umbilicals, risers, flow lines, pipelines, Angola floating systems, drilling and wells, and Indonesia The Arctic – in focus. There is an urgent complements similar DNV Deepwater Centres Malaysia need for adequate standards and rules in the in Houston, Rio de Janeiro and Oslo. agenda Russia Arctic as oil and gas operations move into this India very challenging and fragile environment. Software safety. Software and systems China In parallel with the oil companies’ and other are becoming increasingly complex as the commercial operators’ increasing focus on maritime and offshore industries face great UAE this area, the Arctic nation states are showing product innovation, with more softwareCanada greater interest in the governance of the Arctic. embedded systems forming part of safety and Kazakhstan The entry into force of the Russian-Norwegian business-critical systems. These industries now Saudi Arabia Barents Sea Delimitation Agreement in June realise the need for an improved approach Qatar 2011 was an important step in its own right, to managing the emerging software risks. 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 but also sent signals to the wider international A modern drilling rig contains more than society about the orderly and predictable 1 million lines of code, or the same amount governance of the Arctic area. of code as the latest Airbus A380. New discoveries on the Norwegian contiThroughout 2011, DNV participated actively Requests from rig owners, suppliers and nental shelf mean that Norway is forecasted in numerous commercial, academic and policy authorities, in addition to the results of the to exceed all other countries when it comes making fora, focusing on the increased risk accumulated knowledge, pilot projects and to offshore exploration and production Regulatory changes. Major regulatory An example of these is the Drilling Safety Rule, level in the Arctic area. DNV’s role as secrebest practices from other industries, have led spending between 2011 and 2014. changes to offshore safety regimes are being which addresses both well bore integrity tariat for the initially Russian-Norwegian, but DNV to develop a new class notation for Intefocus on considered in both the US and European and well control equipment and procedures. now increasingly international, Barents 2020 grated Software Dependent Systems (ISDS). oil and gas Union as direct consequences of the Macondo blowout in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010. The Workplace Safety Rule is also new, requiring all offshore oil and gas operators project has served as a kingpin in this regard. Major new oil and gas discoveries on the This notation aims at engineering the various software applications into a single system and experience gained from the North Sea can be utilised to a large extent. Currently, While such new and modified regulations in US waters to develop and maintain a Safety Norwegian continental shelf, in both the North that meets all the requirements in terms there is little guidance available on how to may be prescriptive in the short term, they and Environmental Management System for Sea and Barents area, ensure a high level of safety, functionality and reliability, and it perform the required assessments and DNV are expected to become more performance identifying, addressing and managing operaof activity in the Norwegian offshore sector. has been very well received by the industry. is co-operating closely with the offshore and risk-based in the longer term. Requiretional safety hazards and impacts. industry to develop a common approach to ments relating to safety cases, risk-based DNV has certified a large number of blowAgeing structures. A large number of the management of ageing installations and 65% systems, environmental impact assessments, out preventers in accordance with its Recomoil and gas installations have reached their life extensions, involving the development Two years on, the Deepwater emergency response systems and technology mended Practice for the Recertification of intended design life. New technology and of guidelines, codes and standards to ensure Horizon accident still represents qualification will become more explicit. Blowout Preventers and Well Control Equipbetter reservoir management have made the continued safe operation of ageing In the US, nine major investigations have ment for the US Outer Continental Shelf it possible to extract more oil and gas from offshore installations. the main driving force behind been conducted into the Macondo accident, since this was released in June 2010. About 65% of all offshore pipelines ageing fields. This has created a strong the efforts of regulators, and a number of recommendations have are designed and built to DNV’s demand for life extensions of facilities, pipeline standards. industry bodies and individual been presented. Tougher EU regulations. In the EU, the both onshore and offshore. Close to 25% Other achievements in 2011 companies to establish safer DNV carried out the forensic investigation European Commission has proposed regulations of the Norwegian and 40% of the UK units of the Deepwater Horizon Blowout Preventer on the ‘Safety of offshore oil and gas prospechave exceeded their design life, and the and more robust practices in and published the results in a report dated tion, exploration and production activities’. authorities have increased their focus to New guidance on offshore 47 JIPs the offshore sectors around the 20 March 2011. The report is part of the US The Commission argues that the risk of major ensure that the risks associated with ageing gas terminals. Rising demand for floating offshore gas terminals has world. DNV has been playing Coast Guard/US Bureau of Ocean Energy accidents in European waters is significant and and life extensions are effectively controlled resulted in the development of new a leading role in the investigaManagement, Regulation and Enforcement that existing legislation and practices do not by the offshore industry. This involves the technologies and specialized units, Joint Investigation Team Report. DNV later provide all the achievable risk reductions. The In 2011, we completed 208 developinstallations, including structures, topside, tion and influenced future undertook further testing of the Deepwater Commission also concluded that existing regulasubsea installations and pipelines, and leading to a number of innovative design ment projects within the Cutting regulatory frameworks. Horizon Blowout Preventer for certain parties tory frameworks and operating arrangements do Edge and Technology Leadership the work procedures in order to maintain concepts. DNV prepared a detailed portfolios covering maritime, oil design and construction guidance to to the litigation concerning the event and has not provide for the most effective emergency production in a sustainable manner. and gas (approx. 35%) and cleaner meet the demand for an up-to-date, also provided a number of recommendations response to accidents wherever they occur. DNV is heavily involved in the Norwegian energy. 47 were Joint Industry fully comprehensive overview of the based on its involvement and experience. According to its proposal, all operators are and UK sectors, and is increasingly also Projects, where we work closely many technical challenges faced by The authorities are still assessing these and required to submit a Major Hazard Report, involved in other regions, such as the with industry partners. designers and yards in this segment. other recommendations, while some new which has to be verified by an independent Middle East, India and South East Asia, regulations have already been introduced. third party. where the safety regime is less prescriptive 22 23 Golden age for The world’s energy demand will continue to grow due to an increasing population natural and expected rise in income. New horizons are opening up for natural gas, both conventional and unconvengas tional, and is increasingly seen as part of the low carbon economy. MTOE 5,0 0 0 4 ,0 0 0 [1] 3 ,0 0 0 oil ENOUGH GAS FOR 2 ,0 0 0 c oa l FUTURE GENERATIONS [2] gas 1,0 0 0 New techniques to exploit unconb io INCREASING n uc ma ss ventional natural gas resources 0 le a r SHARE OF ENERGY MIX hy d ro mean that total recoverable ot h er R gas resources can sustain Natural gas is bound to play 19 8 ene wa b les 0 today’s consumption a greater role in the global 19 9 0 20 0 226 for more than energy mix from 21% in 2008 0 2 01 25 2 0 250 years. to 25% by 2035, even 2 02 0 Wo 203 overtaking coal. rl 0 by f d p r i m uel a ry in t h dem So u e g a s s rc e cen and : OEC ar S / IEA io u co nve nti ona l co n ven tio co n nal ven tio nal production cost u co nve nti ona [3] l BUT DIFFICULT TO GET TO produced conven. TIG HT sh a le There is an abundance of CB M deepwater arctic so u r unconventional (tight, shale and Coal Bed Methane), deepwater and Arctic gas. However, RES OU R CES it is much more expensive to ( TC M ) recover than convenTh e c tional gas. g a s ost o f res e So u o u r x p lo i rc e ces tin : IEA g GAS VALUE CHAIN Source transport terminals end user Natural gas is bound to play an increasing role in the global conventional gas Unconventional gas pipelines lng vessels energy mix. Gas is available in many Dominates worldwide Unconventional gas is expected 70% of all gas is transported 30% of all gas is transregions, and new reserves have production, accounting for 85% 15% to count for more than 40% of by pipeline, which is a cheaper, 70% 30% ported by vessels as been discovered while others have over 85% of total marketed the global production increase but often more difficult Liquified Natural Gas become economical to produce. output today. Most oil fields by 2035, and increase its share option than LNG. (LNG). Gas helps improve energy security contain both oil and gas. (IEA) to 1/4 of all gas production. (IEA) and provides the flexibility needed as more variable energy ALM O (e.g. wind and solar) get connected OF T ST HAL Electric power generation H USED E G A S F to the power grids. Gas is also IS cleaner than other fossil fuels. Natural gas is taking over as the G ENE FOR PO R ATION W E R preferred raw energy source for new DNV is engaged in the entire countries with largest resources The world’s longest pipeline major gas export via pipelines and lng vessels Billion cubic meters power generation, due to abundance energy value chain, with a Nord Stream went on stream with 5 LNG power of supply and lower carbon emissions particular focus on the rapidly gas from Russia to Europe in 2011. 10 generation growing LNG markets. 15 than either coal or crude oil. total world The project was designed and constructed lNG PIPElineS 20 DNV has run a Joint Industry Proved reserves 30 according to DNV-OF-F101 and is being 187.1 russia Proved reserves 40 Project in South East Asia, certified according to DNV-OSS-301. 44.8 identifying potentials for small For DNV, the work on the Nord Stream scale power generation based Trillion cubic meter project will continue beyond the second on LNG instead of diesel, Trillion cubic pipeline becomes operational in 2012. meter supported by studies in India, China, Bangladesh Residential / commercial use and Indonesia Europe’s gas Most large cities in North America, Europe, China remains demand is such that and Northern Asia have extensive natural an aggressive gas Substantial resources US several new trunk gas gas networks supplying residential Proved reserves India is becoming importer, both by of unconventional gas pipelines are being and commercial consumers natural gas, 7.7 a large gas importer, pipeline and LNG, but Ma primarily for space heating, water ny are now identified on all promoted, in addition and declining associis now exploring its own and hous e continents. Exploration to further LNG ated gas production will heating, and cooking. Many cities in pro comm s unconventional p er Trillion cubic terminals. developing countries are also installing gas erties c ial of such resource gathers meter mean even some Middle resources. for us EXTENSIVE local gas pipelines and networks. he a e pace in countries like East states increasing tin GAS EXPERTISE g US, China and their gas imports. DNV KEMA provides India. expertise in gas fired power generation, smart grids for gas, and building and industry Shale gas risk management DNV is preparing a standard for shale energy efficiency. gas operations which we expect will australia Industry Proved reserves help build trust between operators 2.9 Natural gas is an important feedstock and concerned local communities. middle east and energy provider for the petroThe supply of Proved reserves chemical, fertilizer and steel industries. 75.8 Trillion cubic natural gas has been meter Th e radically altered by the f Safeguarding gas pipelines in d e rtili z u e Several projects in North America emergence of significant Trillion cubic l a rgstry is r meter a shale gas reserves and the o f n e co n s focus on integrity and risk management atu ume LNG as development of technor al r of gas pipeline network and facilities. gas shipping fuel In these projects, DNV contributes with logies that make these Transport fuel resources possible DNV classed the world’s a combination of competences within LNG carriers fuelled by LNG Australia is Less than 1% of all the world car fleet first pure LNG-fuelled multito produce. materials, corrosion, integrity manageIn the Middle East, DNV has been emerging as the are natural gas vehicles, but the IEA purpose cargo ships in China. ment and enterprise risk management. engaged in a project on practical main producer of predicts in its ‘gas scenario’ that the Tsuji Heavy Industries will build DNV is the leading investigator of considerations and engineering new LNG supply. number of Natural Gas driven vehicles Verifying Coal Bed 2+2 LNG-fuelled multi-purpose major pipeline ruptures in the US. for conversion of LNG carriers, could reach 70 million by 2035. Methane projects cargo ships for Norwegian Asset integrity of pipeline infratructure Next generation pipelines shifting from fuel oil to LNG as fuel. DNV is the verifier for the owner Nor Lines, based on Currently DNV runs three large gas related DNV has developed a new pipeline The analysis’ include both HAZIDs QCLNG Coal Bed Methane In shipping, only a few vessels are fuelled a Rolls-Royce design. By joining forces with KEMA projects with Petrobras in Brazil, involving asset concept, called X-Stream, which n at and HAZOPs, where DNV’s methodproject in Australia. The scope by LNG today, but DNV believes that the u pl a r a l g a DNV can now offer a range of new integrity, security of supply and performance. can significantly reduce the cost ology and technical competence includes the upstream part majority of new ships ordered in 2020 ys s i nc a sm services addressing the safety and The projects include processing units, pipelines of a deepand ultra-deep gas re a played a central role. of the project as well as the will be capable of operating on LNG. a s t a si ng ll , but r an r reliability of onshore gas infrastructure, and distribution networks both onshore and pipeline while still complying with export pipeline, and crosses spo ole , rt f measurement of large-scale gas flows offshore, compressor stations, gas driven thermo the strictest safety and integrity through the Great Barrier uel and the safe introduction of new gasses plants and city-gates. Since 2004, the security regimes. X-Stream is based on Reef to the liquefaction into the existing transport systems. of supply of the Brazilian natural gas network established and field-proven site at Curtis Island. has been assessed by complex reliability models technologies which have been by using software such as DNV’s TARO. innovatively arranged. Powering the of 21% in the total capacity. The majority of wind industry were also secured. Turbine able as a solution to deal with the dual new installations were in countries outside testing and related project instrumentation challenge of climate change and increased the OECD, and new markets in Latin America, services continued to experience high demand energy demand. Africa and Asia are driving market growth. from owners and manufacturers. Despite CCS progressing more slowly than China consolidated its position as the global Throughout 2011, DNV maintained its expected, there were many promising develelectricity market leader. The US market, where DNV focus on knowledge development through opments during the year. In particular, the has a significant share of its onshore wind joint industry projects (JIPs), Recommended UN’s decision to include CCS as part of the energy business, slowed in 2011. This was Practices (RPs) and standards. An update to Clean Development Mechanism may contrimainly due to (1) adjustments in the project DNV’s recognised standard for wind strucbute to faster worldwide developments. In development pipeline in anticipation of tures, DNV-OS-J101, cemented our contribuSeptember, South Africa’s president, Jacob a possible lapse in the Federal Production tion to offshore wind safety. Closely related Zuma, Norway’s King Harald, the Norwegian future Tax Credit, (2) the relatively flat power to this, we either launched or made signifMinister of Oil and Gas, Ola Borten Moe, demand due to macroeconomic conditions icant progress within the JIPs on grouted and a number of industry players met at and (3) intensified competition from natural connections with shear keys, subsea cable DNV’s offices to discuss the future of CCS. gas power generation as a result of increased risks and floating offshore wind turbines. DNV encourages close cooperation between domestic fuel supply. DNV remains one of the world’s largest stakeholders in order to realise CCS as an However, DNV grew its wind energy certification and advisory companies, and industrial opportunity. business and experienced particularly this position was further strengthened with In 2011, DNV conducted a due diligence on good growth in business derived from the the merger with KEMA, whose abilities behalf of the European Investment Bank in emerging wind market. We also successfully will move DNV further across the wind order to assess a potential CCS project to be strengthened our presence in the German energy value chain. funded by the EU’s NER300 funding scheme. wind certification market with a new leadership and team, in addition to relocating the Solar energy. The solar energy market office to Hamburg. Contracts for the classicontinued to experience high growth in Other achievements in 2011 fication of two installation vessels and 30 2011 – globally and in particular in Japan, service vessels specifically for the offshore the US, China and India. In 2011, the photovoltaic solar energy market in China First to be accredited in Energy transition. Trillions of dollars are to the International Energy Agency (IEA), exceeded 1.6 GW, representing growth of Korea. DNV was the first interna2,300 planned to be invested in power generation, 50% of the USD 20 trillion expected to be more than 230% since 2010. In the US, new tional certification body to receive focus on transmission and distribution, but much of invested in energy developments towards profesPV installations exceeded 1.8 GW in 2011, accreditation in Korea to deliver type and project certification of wind cleaner the governance, ownerships, infrastructure, technology and standards are yet to be 2030 will be invested in renewable energy, smart grids and conventional power genersionals bringing the total to above 3.5 GW. The cost of solar energy is decreasing, leading to a turbines and wind farms. DNV now energy developed. By joining forces with KEMA, ation and transmission. As of 2012, DNV KEMA Energy & Sustainability, combines KEMA’s 1,800 professignificant expansion of the solar energy has official approval to handle all aspects of the certification work DNV is ready to push this inevitable develHowever, many challenges remain to be sionals on energy efficiency, power genemarket, and growth rates of 50–60% is opment forward. solved with regard to technology, governance, expected in 2012. using its local wind experts. This is a ration, transmission, distribution and gas While traditional sources like coal, gas, infrastructure and standardisation. This is DNV only recently entered the solar milestone for DNV and also provides with 500 experts from DNV’s renewable hydro and nuclear produce stable power why DNV acquired the majority shareholding energy and sustainability activities. energy market and offers services from a number of advantages to Korean generation, future power systems will have in KEMA in December 2011, creating a worldoffices in San Francisco, Boston and Houston. and Asian manufacturers. Over the coming decades, the to manage the variability and uncertainty leading consulting and certification company Our business followed the market, with an world will face the dual challenge in output from renewable energy sources within cleaner energy, sustainability, power 80% growth in revenue and people in 2011. 240 like wind and the sun. The question is: how generation, transmission and distribution. We now have 52 employees providing solar Optimal use of remote sensof reducing carbon levels while wind can we produce fossil-fuel-based power more On 1 March 2012, a new company in the DNV services. DNV has taken a leading position in ing technology. DNV provided meeting the exploding global sustainably, increase the percentage of renewGroup, DNV KEMA Energy & Sustainability, specialists the US markets for independent engineering, the industry with an important thirst for electrical power. The able energy and distribute the electrical was formed to serve this market. It combines In 2011, 240 DNV experts provided due diligence, technology qualification Recommended Practice containing solution must be more renewable power to the consumer more efficiently? KEMA’s 1,800 experts on energy efficiency, services in the wind energy sector, with and energy estimates services. in-depth knowledge about how to Better transmission systems and smart grids power generation, transmission, distribution more than 80 working in the offshore use remote sensing technology to energy, cleaner fossil-based power, are important parts of the answer to this and gas with 500 experts from DNV’s renewwind field. Experts are located in Denmark, Capturing CO2. Carbon Capture and Storcharacterise wind resources. energy efficiency and smarter question. able energy and sustainability activities. the UK, Germany, the Netherlands, age (CCS) is widely viewed as an important ways of transporting electricity Norway, the US, China, South Korea, technology in a transition towards a lowSingapore, Brazil and India. from source to consumer. Huge investments in cleaner power. Wind growth. Wind energy remains the carbon economy. However, its speed of World’s first offshore This is why DNV made its largest Stricter environmental regulations and higher fastest growing renewable source in terms development is still dependent on a higher standard for wind turbine energy costs will drive a transition towards of capacity, with a significant offshore price for carbon, public acceptance of atteninvestment ever in the energy installation units. In response 65% cleaner fossil fuels and more cost-effective move in Europe. dant risks, technology development, lower certification, testing and to a rise in newbuild orders for power generation. This transition, including The onshore and offshore wind industry capital and operational costs, and new offshore wind turbine installation consulting company KEMA. that towards integrating more renewable installed just over 41,000 MW of new regulatory frameworks. vessels (WTIUs), DNV launched the power into the energy grids, will require wind power in 2011, 6% more than in 2010, The emergence of gas as an accepted part world’s first Offshore Classification system-wide changes. Such smarter power bringing the cumulative installed capacity DNV has been involved with 65% of the low-carbon economy has taken hold of the world’s offshore wind farms. Standard for this segment in 2011. transmission systems will necessitate huge worldwide to more than 238,000 MW in many places. Applying CCS to gas-fired investments on all continents. According (source: GWEC). This represents an increase power plants will make gas even more accept26 27 Balancing global power challenges total investments in energy supply infrastructure (cumulative, 2011–2035) 37.9 The world will undoubtedly become more electrified in the coming decades. This will require heavy investments in new infrastructure and the upgrading of existing infrastructure. As renewables will account for a bigger share of $ trillion the energy produced, smart grid technology will ensure a fine-tuned balancing act between consumer demand and the various producers’ capacities. 0.3 bio f 1.2 coalu el gas [1] 9.5 $ trillion INCREASING GLOBAL ENERGY DEMAND [2] By 2035, the world’s electricity INVESTMENT NEEDS demand has almost doubled from The increased demand for today’s level. And a major part of electricity will require huge the additional power generation investment in energy infraoil capacity will come from renewable sources. structure. That includes both 10.0 new infrastructure and $ trillion upgrading of ageing infrastructure. pow er 16.9 58% gener $ trillion ation 31%distri b u tion [3] so u REAL-TIME BALANCING rc e : IE A 11%2 ,5 0 OF DEMAND AND SUPPLY 0 trans 2 ,0 0 mission 0 power (MWH / H) Not only is it a challenge to match 1,5 0 0 power generation and highly variable 1,0 0 0 Balancing power demand. As the share of w ind 50 0 pow pow variable power sources (e.g. solar load er er and wind) is increasing, balanc0 balancing e x am ing power challenges will -50 0 pow er Dow ple : in W n r am increase. e pi a n d st Den n g o f m w p ro s u b s eq a r k d i n d p o vid u u w 02 p ow ed b a nt ba ri ng s er 00 er ( y No l a n to r m 8 Ja r c , n 20 wegia ing 0 5). n hy 12 d ro 00 22 00 RESTRUCTURING POWER smart grid 80% €1.3 FROM SHORE europe’S the Roadmap 2050 New infrastructure investA Smart Grid is an electric power 2010 power ments are also expected for network that utilises two-way 80% of Europe’s 2050 For power generation electrification of offshore communications and controltechnologies to cost efficiently oil and gas production and tie-in of large scale Transmission power supply still needs to be built, with many and transmission alone, the Roadmap 2050 2020 system 24 % integrate the behaviour and actions of all users connected offshore wind farms. – transporting electrical power To support Europe’s decarof the current assets reaching the end of analysis estimated a €1.3 trillion investment rene ablesw 6% variable 2030 % 18-variable to it. This ensures an economically efficient and sustainable real-time In the same millisecond a consumer turns on the from the producer bonisation goal, The Roadmap their economic life over the next 15 years. non 34 % 15% power system with low losses production kitchen stove in Norway to the grid. 2050 project and the Power in the next 40 years. rene ablesw variable Europe has defined a clear goal of and high levels of quality, power at 16:30 to prepare salmon Perspectives 2030 report were initiated by the European Many of the new assets But the report concludes, that the transition is 50 % 2 8% security of supply and safety. for dinner, all or parts of Climate Foundation (ECF) will be more capital technically and financially 28 % 19%rene ablesw variable decarbonising its power production in Electrical power the power may be ordered, N UC non and has been developed by intensive than the old feasible. Read more: LE A order to meet the objective to reduce It also takes into account the is produced in produced, transmitted and R variable Distribution a consortium with significant ones, and this poses roadmap2050.eu the moment it is greenhouse gas emissions by at least balance between variable input distributed from an onshore – transporting contribution from KEMA. a huge investment being consumed. 80% below 1990 levels by 2050. from renewable energy such as wind-farm in Spain. electrical power Several reports with regards challenge. 25 % wind and solar, and the stable from the grid to to technology, policy and N UC 22% LE A non In addition to energy efficiency, gas, coal and nuclear sources. Read more: smartgridsherpa.com 1 6:30 the consumer. finance have been released. 47% 22% R variable F OS coal the complementarity between a SIL diverse portfolio of renewable energy 3,25 0 sources and flexible gas-fired 3 , 65 0 4 , 20 0 40% 15% 17% TW coal plants will drive the development. 4 ,5 0 0 h / yr 22% F OS SIL N UC LE A today’s situation R E ne wables 4 ,9 0 gas R 2010 0 N u clear However, for this to happen, upfront ne w demand so u Powrce: 2 5% gas 33% 5% investments in low carbon technolnew capacity Pe r e r F OS coal 2030 s At 18:00 a French student turns on 203 pec tiv SIL 2 8% 0 es oil ogies as well as in transmission grids Fossil 3% the microwave to heat up her dinner. f u el gas will need to double over the next two Instantly, a request signal goes into to 201 0 decades. Smart grids are considered the grid, and if needed the power production will be increased where it is 2 02 0 the glue that will hold together the possible and cheapest, e.g. from a gas continents power system. fuelled power plant 2 03 0 with CCS in Germany. 1 8:00 20 4 0 europe’s electricity 20 5 0 powermix demand 2050 EU27, norway and so u rc e switzerland : Ro adm ap 2 050 < 1 GW 5–10 GW 1–5 GW > 10 GW Power generation from renewable energy Testing, Inspection and Certification (TIC) The integration of intermittent renewable energy sources KEMA’s original and largest service is TIC, and it has In Spain, tapas is served at into the electricity grids through smart technologies will the world’s largest reference HP/HV test laboratory 21:00, and renewable hydro power from Norway may be continue to gather speed. DNV is strong in wind energy in the world at its headquarters in Arnhem, If all the renewable power was certification, independent engineering services within Netherlands, plus test laboratories in the chosen as the cheapest and to be based on wind power there solar energy, and advisory services within renewables. Czech Republic and the US. Per day most environmental friendly would be a need to install 18 KEMA is recognised in the integration of renewable energy source for cooking. very large offshore wind turbines sources into electricity grids. Jointly, this provides (7.5 MW) per day until 2035 a support to the industry throughout the whole to reach the IEA predictions. 2 1 :00 renewable energy value chain. Risk management and management consulting services Sustainable use and energy efficiency Electrical transmission and distribution operation consulting to regulators and industry players Improvements in energy efficiency remain the cheapest The enormous need to replace ageing grid infrastrucNew technology and heavy investacross the energy value chain. option for reducing carbon emissions. KEMA is one tures will require heavy investments in power transPower generation from fossil fuel ments in the power sector pose With DNV’s risk-based approach of the market leaders in the North American ratemission and distribution. KEMA has experience As utilities look to extend the life of their existing new risks, related to smart infraand risk management tools the payer funded energy efficiency programmes and has in transmission and distribution, while DNV coal and gas-fired thermal generation plants, they structure, security, systems and two companies establish one a strong presence in the US with regard to energy has offshore wind and sub-sea oil and gas must find ways to improve efficiency and reduce carbon human interfaces, enterprise and leading provider of policy, risk efficiency services within property and infrastructure production expertise. The complementary emissions. KEMA has long track record of supporting project risk. KEMA has strengths management, operations consultdevelopment. Meanwhile, DNV addresses energy base of best practices and research supports them with these challenges. DNV is recognised by the in policy, road mapping and ing and due diligence services. efficiency in the process industries in Europe. the paradigm shift. industry and authorities for the standardisation and advisory work of Carbon Capture and Storage. Assuring trust and confidence DGM, DNV Nemko Presafe is already a nutritious, safe food can be produced Inside Japan. In Japan, large industrial leading provider in Europe and is well on without depleting our natural resources. companies tend to develop and maintain its way to becoming one of the world’s The global supply chain is one key compostrong and lasting relationships with certitop service providers to the global nent to achieve this. fication bodies that serve their domestic medical device and EX/hazloc industries. Certification is an important part of industrial segment. JACO (Japan Audit the solution and DNV Business Assurance and Certification Organisation) is Japan’s Supply chain collaboration. The experienced continued growth in its second-largest certification body and its world’s population has already passed certification services to the food and customers include dominant Japanese the 7 billion mark. Food production must beverage industry in 2011. Our commitelectronics manufacturers such as Panaimprove in order to supply the world’s ment to this industry continues to be sonic and Fujitsu. population with enough nutritious food. strong both as a service provider and To better serve these customers’ This requires technological, scientific and by being actively involved in the techoperations outside Japan, a partnership cultural knowledge to interact so that nical development of new standards. between DNV Business Assurance and DNV Business Assurance is directly inJACO was formed in 2010. During 2011, volved in the management of FSSC 22000, we have expanded existing relationships 6,000 a food safety management system for with Panasonic and Fujitsu to establish manufacturers. DNV holds a market share global Management System Certification One-stop shop. Staying competitive in certification industry and new topics in of approximately 25% of the total certicontracts. Our partnership with JACO a rapidly changing business environment the market, like energy usage, generated fications to this standard, whose scope supports DNV Business Assurance’s focus on places high demands on companies. Balancsome momentum. More than 6,000 food companies have been certified by DNV. is expanding along the supply chain. position in the domestic market but BUSINESS ing economic, social and environmental As more and more companies are lookTechnical packaging requirements have also signals a strong alliance that is able needs has become a vital factor in gaining ing for technical and financial consolidarecently been included in this standard; to serve Japanese customers looking ASSURANCE and sustaining competitive advantages. tions of systems, DNV Business Assurance the next step is primary production and for a global supplier. Companies are increasingly looking for is improving its portfolio of integrated animal feed. 28% one certification body that can handle services, focusing on long-term value illycaffé, a brand leader in specialty their total certification needs, resulting creation to better support its customers’ coffee that produces and markets a Other achievements in 2011 in a clear trend towards consolidation. sustainable business operations. unique blend of coffee, was the first This trend represents an opportunity for company to receive DNV Business AssurGrowth and innovation DNV Business Assurance’s food Accredited for new energy DNV Business Assurance. In 2010, DNV Positioning with Nemko and ance’s Responsible Supply Chain Process are key enablers to realise Business Assurance became a separate acquisition of DGM. A partnership safety certification services Certificate. It certifies the organisation’s management standard. The continued to grow strongly, new standard ISO 50001 is the first DNV Business Assurance’s entity fully owned by the DNV Group in with Nemko, an international certifiability to provide a sustainable approach increasing by 28% in 2011 internationally recognised energy goal of becoming the world’s order to increase its focus and strengthen cation body, was formed in 2011. This to processes and stakeholder relations management system standard, and leading certification body. its position in the market and as a leadpartnership merges certification and along the production chain, and specifiDNV Business Assurance was among ing certification body. testing operations for the medical and cally in the supply chain. During 2011, important steps the first certification bodies to EX equipment industry in a joint venture Certification to this standard, which has were taken to reach this goal. Increasing demand for certificacalled DNV Nemko Presafe, co-owned been created by DNV Business Assurance, receive accreditation. DNV Business top 3 Assurance has already been active tion services. The challenging economy by DNV Business Assurance and Nemko. verifies the organisation’s commitment in energy management for several has magnified the need for companies The partnership supports DNV Business to sustainability, the evaluation of strateyears, offering certification accordto reduce costs, but this has not had any Assurance’s position in the compliance gies, roles and responsibilities, business ing to EN 16001, the European energy major effect on the certification market. certification market. conduct, stakeholder engagement activDNV Business Assurance is one of the system standard, but also according In 2011, we continued to see growth in The newly formed DNV Nemko Presafe ities and communication about social world’s three largest management to national standards. DNV Business the global market for independent certifiacquired DS Certificering AS’s DGM system certification providers and responsibility issues. This innovative Assurance was granted the full accredcation and assurance services. This reflects (Danish Medical Devices Certification) the largest provider of accredited standard demonstrates a company’s abilitation scope under the Dutch RvA the need for companies to communicate unit in 2011 to form a new and focused management system certification. ity to create value in the long term and scheme, and offers certification trust and confidence to their stakeholders. entity within the medical device certificafocuses on the building of shared value to organisations worldwide. Management System certification maintion field. With the combined resources in a context where social development tained its role as a trust generator in the of Nemko, DNV Business Assurance and stimulates economic development. 30 31 Sustainability in an Furthermore, the EU stated that any new risk mitigation for companies operating in increasingly complex risk environments, Other achievements in 2011 evolving market mechanism to cut greenhouse gas emissions outside of Kyoto should be where expectations as to responsible anchored in international law in order to business operations are on the rise. Best Verifier. DNV selected avoid fragmentation of the international DNV’s Research and Innovation unit ‘Best Verifier’ in the 12th annual carbon market. The parties are now workinitiated a substantial number of research Environmental Finance and Carbon ing on developing a framework for new projects, focusing on issues with relevance Finance market survey of environmarket mechanisms in 2012 with a view to making to the environment, energy, IT and shipmental markets. recommendations at the next UNFCCC ping sectors. The unit also published its summit in Qatar at the end of 2012. Technology Outlook 2020 report, which Green Award. At the 2011 has been very well received by our cusTrust and confidence. DNV is well International Green Awards, DNV tomers, employees and other stakeholders positioned to build trust and confidence in was awarded bronze in the category worldwide. More recently, the unit pubthe new Green Climate Fund mechanisms Best Green International Business lished its Healthcare Technology Outlook by ensuring reliable results and managing Award for large companies. 2020 report, where our researchers looked technology transfer risks. We also expect at the key technologies and trends that climate adaptation to be an important will make an impact on the healthcare Technology Outlook 2020 service field for us going forward. sector towards the end of this decade. report. DNV Research & Innovation On the business front in 2011, we mainpublished its report which looks at tained our leading greenhouse gas validaJoining forces. The acquisition of KEMA technologies and trends that will tor position with a 25% market share of and establishment of the new company, have an impact in multiple industries all CDM projects globally, offering a wide DNV KEMA Energy & Sustainability, herald towards the end of this decade. portfolio of related services ranging from the beginning of a new chapter for DNV Expanded service capabilities. keeps the door open for new medium-term carbon footprinting to the risk managein our efforts to realise our vision of global Throughout 2011, sustainability moved initiatives and will hopefully increase ment of carbon projects. impact for a safe and sustainable future. UN Initiative. DNV committed focus on further up the agendas of governments, confidence in the determination of We also boosted our global capacity to Combining DNV’s cleaner energy and to support the UN Sustainable sustainability regulators and businesses. This move has governments worldwide to limit carbon better serve customers in the healthcare sustainability activities with those of Energy for All initiative, which aims to engage governments, the private been further fuelled by rising competition emissions, and thus increase the value industry. Our increasing market share in KEMA signals a continued strong commitand the need for businesses to meet of low-carbon actions and investments. the US and UK markets, coupled with breakment to meeting the needs of an industry sector and civil society partners economic, social and environmental The UN COP17 summit agreed on a throughs in Europe and our joint venture in rapid transition and growth. worldwide with the goal of achieving requirements. An increasing number of process towards 2015 that aims for all with the Chinese Ministry of Health to Indeed, there is consensus among global sustainable energy for all by 2030. companies are rethinking the way they countries to sign a legal agreement on support China’s new healthcare reform business leaders that sustainability, energy do business in order to address their social tackling climate change. In addition, the are examples of the progress we are efficiency and green growth will have a Green Growth Leaders. DNV and environmental impact. Durban talks made headway on agreeing making in this sector. strong impact on how companies think and As the world economy remains joined the international think-tank, In an effort to meet the changing market the design, roles and governance of the Another expansion area is our risk act in the future. We firmly believe that which is focused on documenting, fragile, DNV is stepping up and customer needs, we expanded our Green Climate Fund in order to channel management and corporate responsibility the future winners will be the companies demonstrating and communicating its efforts to help businesses workforce in the areas of climate change, up to USD 100 billion a year by 2020 to services, where we have experienced that adapt to a new green growth reality best and next practice of green growth adopt measures which contrihealthcare, risk management and corpofinance technology transfer, capacity considerable growth in the sustainability and adopt this new mindset faster and development in regions and cities. rate responsibility. We saw our business building, mitigation and adaptation risk area. These services provide important more completely than their competitors. bute to sustainable development Also, DNV became a partner in the and client base grow. We also leveraged efforts in developing countries. Sustainia Initiative, a collaborative and a competitive advantage the rising demand for innovation by The Kyoto Protocol was extended by effort between multinational compain the market place. further developing our research unit and five years to 2017, allowing for the contiNew organisation. With the aim of top 6 nies and organsiations to build a model provision of risk management services nuity of existing markets and instruments. having a global impact on the sustainaand vision for a sustainable future. through our Sustainability Centre in China. The doubts as to the continuation of the bility agenda, DNV established Division CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) Sustainability & Innovation in April 2010 Climate change talks. Throughout the were also laid to rest. The COP guidance DNV’s sustainability assurance to further its position in climate change, Hospital accreditation. year, the intense debate on climate change to the CDM contains some good, useful services were put to the test in a healthcare and sustainability risk manageDNV accredited close to 300 hospicontinued. The outcome of the UN climate advances, methodological improvements global research carried out by the ment services. As of March 2012, these tals in the US and EU according to negotiations in Durban in December 2011 and reiterated pressure for progress. independent analyst firm Verdantix. innovative services are delivered under the the DNV standard. Global interest The analysis found DNV to be one of in DNV’s healthcare services is includes some positive items of interest Conditions on which carbon capture and DNV KEMA Energy & Sustainability brand, the six providers that lead the global to today’s carbon market, where DNV has storage projects can be accepted into the with the exception of healthcare services increasing, also in the area of sustainability assurance market. a prominent role as one of the largest CDM are regarded as one of the most which are provided by DNV Business infection risk management. verifiers and validators. The outcome also important advances. Assurance as of 1 March 2012. 32 33 how we work The truth about how we manage our own operations should reflect our vision of having a global impact for a safe and sustainable future. We continuously strive to live our values by adopting best practices in our work; from the way we manage our stakeholders to the actions we take to assume corporate responsibility. We report our progress in the following areas: Corporate responsibility People The environment Health and safety Corporate In order to ensure that we live our value of never compromising on quality and integrity, we offer a range of training activities regarding our anti-corruption policies and procedures to all employees. In 2011, nearly 600 employees supplier portfolio. In addition, this is the first time that we obtain an overview of the main supplier categories in DNV and their associated exposures and challenges. In general, the review has brought CR-related benefits as well as COMMITTEES – ENSURING RELEVANT SERVICES AND STANDARDS. On an operational and technical level, DNV continues to engage with a range of non-decision-making committees consisting of representatives of responsibility completed our ‘Dealing with Dilemmas’ training. commercial and governance benefits. customers and technical communities. These This means that 56% of all employees have As of now, all units in DNV have either comcommittees are often chaired by a customer completed the training, which is a slight drop pleted or have started the review. DNV Norway representative and are examples of our comfrom last year due to high employee turnover. is the last to commence review due to the large mitment to embracing the notion of multiOur focus on raising awareness of issues relating size. Recommendations have been given to the stakeholder engagement in developing our to business ethics will continue in 2012, and a units to follow up with the suppliers, e.g. asking services and standards and of how to promote new business ethics course has been made manthem to sign the Supplier Code of Conduct, our interests in the countries and industry as part of datory for all new employees, creating further or to have closer monitoring of performance. segments we operate within. awareness of behavioural norms and expectaRelationship with a few suppliers have been Our management system stipulates that each tions in line with DNV policies and instructions. terminated as a result of the review. region shall carry out a satisfaction survey for all In 2012, we will continue with the rest of key customers on an annual basis. In addition, HANDLING MISCONDUCT. Misconduct is the units on the base-lining review. Recommenan alternating set of at least ten non-key cusdefined as a breach of DNV policy, national dations for next steps of the project are being tomers shall be covered by the annual survey. our business or international law or relevant regulatory worked on. frameworks, protocols and standards, and our Read more: dnv.com / moreondnv /profile / ‘Crossing the Line’ guideline provides additional SOCIETY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT. committees practical support. There are a number of channels DNV actively supports several national and for reporting misconduct, either by colleagues, international initiatives focusing on sustainable RED CROSS PARTNERSHIP. DNV entered its suppliers or agents working on behalf of DNV. development and responsible business practice. eighth year of partnership with the Red Cross These are clearly defined in our guidelines We are strongly committed to the principles this year. We continue to support water and entitled ‘Reporting of Misconduct in DNV’. of the UN Global Compact, and are active at a sanitation projects in China and Vietnam. While we encourage reporting through the global level through participation on the adviExamples of these projects include the construcline, the Ombudsman route is available for all to sory committee on Supply Chain Sustainability tion of a new water system to provide clean use where it is deemed appropriate or preferand regionally through the UN Global Compact water to pupils and staff at a school in Kim able. The Ombudsman also acts as an ethical Nordic Network. Our Group CEO is also a member Thuong. We supported a sustainable forest helpline and the majority of issues brought of the Global Business Leadership Platform on management project involving local commuto the Ombudsman in 2011 involved seeking Climate Change. DNV is an organisational stakenities in Thach Kiet, enabling local villages to advice and guidance on ethical dilemmas. This holder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reduce the risk of water scarcity and provide a is seen as being a positive indication of CR perand a member of the GRI Supply Chain Disclosustainable source of food both for their own Our progress is reported under the following areas: to drive a risk-based approach to fraud and corrupvading everyday business decisions at all levels sure Working Group and G4 Working Group. consumption and for sale. In the Vinh Phuc Business ethics tion resistance in 2011 through extending the in the organisation. The Ombudsman uses issues We continuously work to increase transand Tuyen Quang provinces of Vietnam, we Corporate Society and stakeholder engagement internal use of our own Corporate Integrity brought to him as a basis for making recommenparency around the social and environmental supported a gravity-fed water system, providResponsibility International collaboration People Profile (CIP) tool. In 2011, assessments were conducted in DNV’s dations on improved business practices to the Executive Committee and Board of Directors as impact of our business operations, and aim to have achieved an application level of A+ on ing adequate clean water to 250 households and thus significantly improving health, hygiene Environment Chinese, Benelux and Corporate units, resulting well as to the CR Board, which consists of senior the GRI index by 2014. In 2011, we conducted a and living conditions in the village. We also Health and safety in a detailed action plan that will enable us to management representatives of each geographsurvey on the 2010 DNV Annual Report among supported the construction of a kindergarten further build upon current systems for fraud and ical division. In 2011, seven cases related to disboth external subscribers and DNV employees. in Yen Bai Province which was completed in The latter three will be described in the next corruption resistance. The action plan proposes crimination were reported to the Ombudsman The survey results gave us more insight into November 2011. In China, 173 eco-san toilets pages. improvement initiatives within training, awareand appropriate actions were taken by the line the expectations of the report’s readers, who were constructed in the villages of Longhe and ness and processes. This includes the roll-out of an management or by escalating the case to relevant gave consistently high scores. We use this input Shangri. The eco-san toilets and newly conIntegrating Corporate Responsibility. updated and improved ‘Dealing with Dilemmas’ management bodies. There has been no central together with the GRI framework and feedback structed running water systems provide the We have embedded corporate DNV’s Executive Committee and each Chief course including a new annual nano-learning reporting of cases dealt with by the line only. from an external Norwegian annual report jury villages with a healthier living environment responsibility into the core of Operating Officer are responsible and accountmodule. In addition a ‘Code of Personal conduct’ Related to surfaced integrity cases, audits or inves(the Farmand Prize) to continuously improve and safe drinking water. our business. Our main impact able for Corporate Responsibility (CR) in DNV. module will be available for roll-out and the tigations have been carried out. Integrity incidents our reporting and report format. We continued to give financial support to CR is a regular agenda item at top manageinduction course for new employees will include have been addressed during the year and correcOur membership of the World Business improve the living conditions in the shanty is through the services we offer. ment meetings. The Board of Directors also separate items on preventing fraud and corruptive actions have been taken including dismissal of Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) towns (favelas) in Brazil, providing health and In addition, we have a responsihas an annual review of CR issues and actions. tion. In addition, DNV’s resistance to fraud and some employees and termination of agreements. continues to provide an excellent platform for security training, primarily to children, mothers bility to ensure that we adopt The Corporate Sustainability Officer coordicorruption risks will be benchmarked against enabling businesses to adopt more responsible and people with disabilities. nates CR activities in order to ensure that they external corporate ratings. MANAGING SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS. business practices globally. We have a particular Our international collaboration with the Red best practices in the way we run meet the expectations of our stakeholders, The action plan also consists of specific process DNV’s Corporate Instruction on Purchasing and focus on climate change work, also a key strategic Cross has inspired a number of volunteer initiaour business; from the way we represent a common corporate platform and improvements ensuring that Compliance and Subcontracting were reviewed and revised at growth area for DNV, through our participation tives in DNV. Some examples include collecting manage our key stakeholders are implemented in all business areas and Fraud and Corruption prevention will be part of the end of 2010, and more focus has been given in the Energy and Climate Working Group. second-hand bikes for sale in the Red Cross regions. the agenda in regional business reviews in line to CR aspects such as anti-corruption and human DNV is a founding member of the World Ocean second-hand store, helping the local Red Cross to the actions we take to reduce with todays practice regarding safety, health and rights when selecting and engaging suppliers Council, a multi-stakeholder alliance that brings to organise a Christmas party for children living our impact on the environment. BUSINESS ETHICS. DNV’s Corporate Responsienvironmental issues. It will also be on the interof products and services, contractors, subcontogether the diverse ocean business commuwith their mothers in refugee homes, and a bility Board (CR Board) continuously monitors nal audit agenda to a larger extent than today. tractors and agents. nity to collaborate on stewardship of the seas. volunteer day for employees in Vietnam. As the risks and opportunities associated with our Key findings will be documented as part of the In order to have assurance that also our Our participation in the technical committee part of our competence-exchange programme, global presence. Barriers to corporate responsiCorporate Risk Process. Other initiatives includes existing suppliers are complying with certain for developing the new AA1000SES standard DNV has delivered pro bono consultancy bility risks that are considered material to our Fraud and Corruption prevention training of standards set forth in the new instructions, has allowed us to forge the way for new services to help the Norwegian Red Cross operations form an integral part of our managecontrollers and improved focus on the subject a baseline review was conducted for existing standards in global stakeholder engagement. implement a balanced scorecard. ment systems and are continuously monitored in the upcoming revised recruitment process. suppliers who are most exposed to CR aspects. through internal auditing processes. In addition, A new Corporate Integrity Profile assessment This has also been used to encourage all units to Read more: dnv.com / moreondnv /cr/ Read more: dnv.com / moreondnv /cr/ the Executive Committee and CR Board continued will be carried out in 2014 to evaluate the progress. take proactive actions to reconsider their current collaboration collaboration / redcross 36 37 Engaging table 01 workforce by employment table 02 FORMAL INTERNAL training diversity of DNV’s managers is increasing: 69% contract of managers are non-Scandinavian, up from Sum Hours/ 67% in 2010; 79% of managers are local, i.e. Employee class 2010 2011 Employee class hours empl. work in their country of origin; 23% of managers are female – a proportion that has grown A – Permanent employee 8,151 8,114 A – Permanent employee 71,247 8.8 for the seventh year in a row. The proportion our people C – Contract 289 309 C – Contract 5,779 18.7 of female employees in general remains stable at 33%. When taking into account criteria such S – Subcontractor 3,120 3,460 S – Subcontractor 8,130 2.3 as education and work experience, the disX – Extraordinary 347 690 X – Extraordinary 1,652 2.4 crepancy in salary between male and female employees in DNV is well below 1%. Employee classes: A – Permanent employee: X – Extraordinary: Temporary The differentiation of employees is necessary for DNV especially DNV has employers’ responsibility personnel: paid either by invoice The education level of DNV’s workforce to perform regarding the employment regulations in these different classes. and employee is on DNV payroll. or by DNV. Examples: Summer increased during 2011; at year end, 82% of Full-time and part-time employees (Class A) generally have the same C – Contract: Same as ‘A’ but temps, maternity leave cover, benefits per salary grade per country. Some benefits vary between time limited: Personnel, with a seasonal worker, graduates. employees had a university degree. permanent and temporary employees, e.g. eligibility for pensions. defined contract end date. ConS – Sub contractor: Consultants, tract is typically for over one year. long-term hired. Paid by invoice only. Facilitating collaboration. DNV table 03 workforce worldwide encourages and supports collaboration among employees across offices, time zones Employees1 Females (%) Turnover2 (%) Expatriates (%) Local mgmt 3 (%) and organisational lines in a cost-effective and to stay 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 way through the Next generation workplace programme. The use of video conferencing, Africa 67 63 22 21 9.0 33.3 11.9 17.5 40 74.6 collaboration and internal social media tools Americas 1,114 1,148 35 36 13.8 12.7 4.6 4.4 79 83.0 increased and matured throughout 2011. Asia / Oceania 2,367 2,132 28 28 9.1 9.5 9.3 8.0 69.1 84.9 Investment in and training on the use of such collaboration tools will continue in 2012. Europe 1,906 1,760 36 37 9.3 9.8 1.7 1.4 87.5 87.6 Employees of DNV have the right be Nordic / Baltic 218 375 25 34 15.6 9.1 12.4 1.9 16.3 90.1 organised, which DNV commits to through its Norway 2,361 2,464 34 33 9.6 9.6 2.5 0.5 86.3 81.0 signing of the UN Global Compact. DNV has established collective bargaining agreements Middle East 166 172 32 27 5.8 15.7 0.8 8.1 0 0 in Norway, Sweden and Denmark, represent1 Number of Class A and C employees 2 Calculated only for Class A 3 Local management – managers with country’s citizenship ing approximately 33% of all employees. More competitive labour market. global employer branding concept and improve figure 01 employees, level of education versations take place, individual competence figure 02 workforce by age group A shortage of engineers in many countries, and align the recruitment and onboarding development plans have been integrated into people especially in the oil and gas industry, led to processes used across DNV. the MIP process. These plans should reflect the No of employees Calculated from Class A and C employees. increased efforts to recruit employees and fact that, statistically, learning is best achieved 3000 higher turnover rates. Turnover increased People engagement increasing. Despite in a 70-20-10 ratio: 70% of learning occurs to 10.4%, which is a significant jump from the higher-than-desired turnover, the level through real life and on-the-job experience; 2010 2500 8.8% in 2010 and the highest level since of engagement among employees increased 20% occurs through dialogues with colleagues 2011 1998. At the end of 2011, DNV had 8,453 in 2011, as reflected in the annual People and role models; and the final 10% comes from 2000 employees, 13 more than at the end of 2010. Engagement Survey results. DNV achieved formal training such as courses. Whether or This includes the divestment of ITGS and strong overall improvements from the 2010 not managers complete the full performance 1500 DNV Software’s acquisition of the software results. The most significant were related to management process with their direct reports, 1000 While employee engagement company Synergi Solutions, through which performance management, intention to stay including the establishment of individual com30 employees based in Stavanger, Norway with DNV and customer focus. The most signifipetence development plans, will be considered increased in 2011, DNV experi500 joined DNV. cant declines were related to compensation and in the evaluation of managers’ performance. enced higher turnover rates as Turnover in DNV varies significantly by strategic clarity, and aspects of engagement 93.7% of employees had completed their MIP 0 the fight for qualified engineers job category, with the highest rate among such as pride and motivation. DNV exceeds process by the end of 2011. Age < 31 31-40 41-50 51-60 > 60 intensified. Diversity of the workconsultants and lower turnover among the norm of high performing companies used Master 39.5% As part of performance management, a surveyors and specialists. The number of as a benchmark in a number of key areas: Bachelor 37.0% process for 360° reviews has been launched figure 03 turnover by age group force, including at management employees leaving after 3–5 years with the opportunity to develop, job satisfaction, Other 13.0% in all of the leadership teams in DNV levels, increased during the year. company is on the rise as a consequence of empowerment and involvement, respect, and Doctorate 5.5% and will continue to be rolled out in 2012. % Calculated from Class A and C employees. stronger competition in the labour market. Safety, Health and Environment (SHE). In sum, 2-year college 3.5% An annual succession management process Turnover by gender is 8.4% females and 9.1% males. 14 We use exit interviews to capture reasons DNV is now two percentage points below the Technical / professional 1.5% for managers is in place and is being used 2010 for leaving and to develop strategies for high performing companies’ benchmark on – including in the management appoint12 2011 retaining employees. 25% of those who employee engagement and well ahead of the ments made with the establishment of the 10 completed exit interviews said that the benchmark on employee enablement. for managers on performance management DNV Group structure in early 2012. new employer contacted them directly Much of the increase in employee engageduring 2011 and noted improvement; more 8 with a job offer. ment is believed to be related to better training will be conducted in other parts of Diversity increasing. DNV strives for diver6 To reduce the turnover rate and lower the quality of the Managing Individual Perforthe organisation in 2012. sity in the employee base and for this to be associated costs in terms of loss of compemance (MIP) process, in which all managers One of the most important factors in reflected at management levels. A managerial 4 tence, increased recruitment efforts, training and employees participate. Improving the employee engagement and retention is good career should not be hindered by nationality 2 of personnel and lower chargeability, the MIP process is one of the most important conversations on career and competence or gender if the employee has the compeSecuring Future Talent project was launched actions to improve employee retention rates. development between employees and their tence, attitude and values needed for the role. 0 in 2011. The project will develop a new Several divisions conducted extensive training line managers. To help ensure that these conOur efforts in this area are working, and the Age < 31 31-40 41-50 51-60 > 60 38 39 Reducing A range of initiatives have contributed to this drop in energy use, including the installation of a new ventilation system table 05 Energy consumption from reporting locations (GWh) our 2009 2010 2011 Change (2009–2010) and heating and cooling meters in the energy central, as well as the addition Electricity & district heating 39.5 41.7 41.2 -1% of a new heat pump (2011). Renewables (on-site) 7.0 6.7 6.6 -1% Emissions to air. The emissions to air were Non-renewables (on-site) 2.9 4.2 3.4 -18% calculated based on the consumption of environmental Sum (GWh) 49.4 52.5 51.2 -2% energy reported by the reporting locations. Due to the lack of regionand source-specific MWh / person in reporting locations 10.1 9.3 9.1 -2% emission factors, the emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulphur oxides (SOX) have been estimated at a high level only. table 06 CO2 emissions from reporting locations (tonnes) impact For 2011, the calculated emissions to air 2009 2010 2011 Change include the following sources: Scope 1 537 960 850 -11% Direct emissions (Scope 1): Emissions from the combustion of oil and gas Scope 2 5 836 7 737 10 371 34% to produce heat at locations managed by DNV. Sum (tonnes CO2) 6 373 8 697 11 221 29% Indirect emissions (Scope 2): Emissions from the production of heat or Tonnes CO2 / person in reporting locations 1.3 1.5 2.0 30% electricity procured by DNV but produced at sites not managed by DNV. table 07 Estimated emissions of NOx and SOx from reporting locations (tonnes) Approximately 11,221 tonnes of CO2 were emitted at the reporting locations in 2011. 2009 2010 2011 Change Locations reporting for the first time represented about 866 tonnes of the overall SOX 109 116 112 -3% emissions. About 75 tonnes of CO2 emissions NOX 54 57 55 -3% were reported in 2010 from locations that did not participate in the environmental Energy consumption. The reported consumed. However, it has not been possible reporting for 2011. The other reporting locaCalculation method. The CO2 emissions grid average emission factors published by the energy consumption for 2011 was 51.2 GWh. to accurately specify the hydropower proportions showed an increase of about 21% in have been calculated according to the recommenInternational Energy Agency and retreived from environment About 1.4 GWh was reported from locations tion of the total electricity consumption CO2 emissions compared to 2010. The growth dations set out in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol their data services website (http://data.iea.org). that did not participate in the environmental (see next page, calculation method). in emissions was caused by an increase in (World Business Council for Sustainable DevelopDirect emissions of CO2, NOX and SOX have been reporting for 2010. About 0.2 GWh was reportAt the headquarters in Høvik, DNV Real electricity consumption in countries with high ment and World Resources Institute). Indirect calculated using source specific emission factors emissions from electricity and district heating retrieved from the Norwegian Climate and Pollued in 2010 from locations that did not particiEstate runs an energy-saving project supportemissions per kWh. The overall decrease in have been calculated using country specific tion Agency (Norwegian Emission Inventory 2011). pate in the environmental reporting for 2011. ed by Enova, an organisation established the energy consumption reported above was Together, all the other reporting locations to promote the environmentally friendly to a large extent in Norway, where emissions reduced their reported energy consumption restructuring of Norway’s energy consumpper kWh are relatively low. by approximately 5% compared to 2010. tion and generation. Based on a reference For the reporting locations, the specific figure 04 reported energy consumption figure 05 reported co2 emissions The specific energy consumption in the period from 2004 to 2006, the project aims emissions increased by 30% from about 1.5 Annual environmental reportreporting locations continued to decrease in to achieve a 15% reduction in energy use. tonnes CO2 per person in 2010 to 2.0 tonnes GWh MWh / person CO2 (1,000 tonnes) t CO2 / person 2011 and was about 9.1 MWh/person, down The project started in 2007 and the first CO2 per person in 2011. The estimated emising is mandatory in DNV for 2% from 9.3 MWh/person in 2010. The nonyear in which results were measured was sions of NOX and SOX both decreased by 3% 60 10.4 12 2.5 all locations with more than renewable energy used on-site at our locations 2011. The result so far – a reduction of compared to 2010. This was a result of less 40 employees and for our five decreased by 18%. Hydropower continues 16.8% in energy use – exceeds the original use of oil and gas for heating purposes at 50 10.1 10.2 10 DNV Petroleum Services (DNVPS) to be the dominant source of the electricity project goal. some office locations in 2011. 10.0 2.0 2.00 laboratories. Environmental IT and environmental impact. DNV is 40 9.8 8 reports represent approximately table 04 annual environmental reporting statistics continuing to develop a sustainable business 1.5 9.6 69% of the company measured with a focus on a reduced environmental 30 6 1.54 by number of employees at 2009 2010 2011 footprint. Information Technology (IT), which 9.4 1.31 is an important tool for achieving this goal, 1.0 year-end. DNV complies with Reporting: Locations 26 39 38 concentrates on two main areas: 20 9.3 9.2 4 the ISO 14001 standard for Employees 1 4 961 5 741 5 839 9.1 9.0 environmental management 1) Further optimisation of power consump10 2 0.5 DNV total: Locations 2 297 284 278 tion in computing. Data centres represent systems and was recertified by an 8.8 Employees 1 8 867 8 498 8 453 a considerable portion of the total energy accredited external body in 2011. consumption related to computers. Of the 0 8.6 0 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Percentage reporting 3 56% 68% 69% total data centre energy consumption, 50% relates to servers, 40% to cooling and 10% Electricity & district heating MWh / person Scope 1 1 Employees on permanent and long-term contracts 2 Includes minor site offices to power conversion and distribution. Virtual Renewables (on-site) Non-renewable (on-site) Scope 2 t CO2 / person 3 Based on number of employees at reporting locations server capabilities have made it possible to 40 41 table 08 CO2 emission from business meetings in DNV. High-end videoconferencRewarding employees for improving For its ‘WE do’ initiative, DNV has been nomitable 10 Amount of waste generated by reporting locations (tonnes) air travel (tonnes) ing has a three-fold effect on the company’s their environmental impact. ‘WE do’ nated for the Belgian Energy and Environmental safety, health and environmental goals: is an environmental programme with the Award in the category of Business Sustainable 2009 2010 2011 Change 2009 2010 2011 purpose of influencing DNV culture. It is Development. This award is granted for remark(1) A reduced environmental impact through designed to clarify what DNV expects, able actions that lead to a positive effect on Offices and Recycled 708 580 432 -26% DNV total 11 592 8 731 10 449 less travel, (2) reduced stress and strain reinforces and rewards in terms of personal the environment and that contribute to the laboratories Residual 522 410 416 1% Per employee 1.37 1.03 1.24 of business travel for employees and behaviour. In 2011, the company set aside wellbeing and prosperity of society. In addi(3) reduced exposure to travel safety risks. NOK 30 million in order to partially finance tion, the DNV ‘WE do’ programme reinforces except DNVPS Hazardous 28 21 5 -77% Videoconferencing exceeded 10,000 meetpersonal environmental actions. The proemployee engagement and helps to encourage Recycled 7 8 12 40% table 09 Number of applications ing hours in 2011, tripling the usage level gramme provides financial support (up to a continuous focus on the environment. per environmental actions compared to its launch in 2010. DNV possess2/3 of the cost before taxes) to employees DNVPS Residual 19 5 5 -4% es 53 high-end videoconferencing systems. investing in personal environmental projects Benelux green mobility project. Three In alignment with its Next Generation Work(table 9). In 2011, there were 3,273 applications years ago, the Benelux offices replaced their Hazardous 125 136 171 26% Approved Environmental actions applications place programme, DNV is planning to further for funding. The ‘cycling to work’ project traditional car lease policy with a green mobilRecycled 714 589 444 -25% expand the use of videoconferencing in various was most popular in 2011, with an increase ity policy that encourages the use of public Bicycle to work 1 548 Sum Residual 541 415 421 1% aspects of its operations – increasing both to 1,548 applications, up from 1,300 in 2010. transport and only provides company cars Environmental efficiency utilisation levels and the overall number of with below-average emissions. In addition, Hazardous 153 157 176 12% package for the home (efficient systems and locations available for use in 2012. the new policy gives employees incentives 198 figure 06 reported waste generation light bulbs and showerheads, to select the car category with the lowest Total 1 408 1 160 1 040 -10% use of lectrical timers, etc) Air travel. To create an overview of our air emissions. The Benelux offices had a five-year tonnes kg / person Locations reporting 26 39 38 travel and its corresponding carbon footprint, target of a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions per Green Tags (renewable 3 DNV has developed a common global tool for 1,600 283 300 year per car by the end of 2012 for its company kg / person in reporting locations 283 202 178 -12% energy for the home) registering business flights and calculating car park. This goal was already reached by the High energy class 1,400 CO2 emissions from business air travel. Air end of 2011. A further decrease in 2012 is pro393 250 windows and doors travel is an integral part of our work, so the jected due to the growing ecological mindset table 11 Environmental impact of our services 1,200 202 intention is not for us to stop travelling, but of the workforce and the ‘green’ evolution Home insulation 81 178 rather to make us more aware of our travel 200 of the car market. The green mobility policy 1,000 The positive impact we have on the environment through the services we deliver to Low emission car 130 footprint. After any DNV-related air travel, initiatives have also led to more use of public our customers is estimated to be far bigger that the negative impact of our operations. therefore, all employees are required to take 800 150 transport, biking and carpooling. In Belgium, Low energy appliances 651 Below are selected indicators that reflect the positive performance of our services a minute to register their flights. The correDNV registered an approximate 25% increase against significant environmental risks and issues of global concern. Values 2011 Public transportation passes sponding CO2 emissions are then instantly 600 in the use of public transport, as well as an 180 100 (weekly / monthly / annually) calculated. Our CO2 emissions from business approximate 55% growth in the use of bikes air travel are shown in table 8. It has not been 400 for commuting. In the Netherlands, we services to the Maritime industry services to the energy industry Solar panels (for home 89 possible to verify the reported figures. The 50 experienced an approximate 30% increase or hot water heating) calculated CO2 emissions from business air 200 in employees commuting by bike. Emergency Response Service (ERS) for assisWind energy projects involving DNV travel per employee increased from 1.03 tonnes tance on the stability and residual strength Through 2011, DNV has worked on wind energy 0 0 in 2010 to 1.24 tonnes in 2011. This is assumed 2009 2010 2011 Waste. The amount of waste generated at of vessels in an emergency situation, including projects in the US, Canada, Brazil, European successfully eliminate physical servers and to be due to a lack of focus on reporting in 2010, the reporting locations for 2011 was approxireduction of environmental impact (oil spill, onshore and offshore and elsewhere, repretheir associated power and cooling costs and while actual travel is assumed to have decreased mately 1,040 tonnes, of which the locations loss of cargo, etc.): senting a significant part of the world wind Recycled Hazardous emissions. Despite the larger volume of data in 2011. We have reason to believe that underreporting for the first time represented about Total number of vessels enrolled in the capacity. These projects displace approximately Residual kg / person in offices handled and growth in the number of servers, reporting still exists in several countries. 9 tonnes. About 41 tonnes of waste generated ERS service by the end of 2011 was 2,227. 72 million tonnes of CO2 emissions each year. DNV has managed to keep the power consumpwere reported in 2010 from locations that did This is up by 8.9% from 2011. tion in this area stable compared to 2010. DNVPS’s GOGREEN initiative. In early 2011, not participate in the environmental reporting Total number of incidents handled in 2011 was Carbon capture and storage (CCS) projects DNV Petroleum Services (DNVPS) signed an figure 07 Hazardous waste for 2011. For the other locations there was 23 (20 with ships and 3 with offshore units). involving DNV 2) Implementation of videoconferencing agreement with DHL Express, a world-leading in DNvps laboratories a reported decrease in generated waste of – 12 groundings In 2011, DNV worked on CCS projects that facilities and collaboration tools which transport company, to implement its carbonabout 8% compared to 2010. For the report– 4 collisions potentially contribute to an annual reduction enable DNV employees to collaborate neutral shipping services across DNVPS’s global ing locations, the specific waste generation – 3 water ingress of CO2 emissions of 21.5 million tonnes. effectively across geographical boundaries. markets. The GOGREEN project, a multi-million decreased by 12% from about 202 kg per person – 2 structural collapse In 2011, DNV launched a company-wide, dollar express delivery contract, covers the in 2010 to 178 kg person in 2011 (table 10). – 1 mooring services to the carbon market four-year IT programme called the Next outbound transport of DNVPS’s sampling The increase in waste generation in DNVPS – 1 capsizing Generation Workplace aimed at enabling equipment and the inbound regional transis due in part to the increase in the number of DNV verified Clean Development Mechanism effective collaboration across DNV. The portation of bunker oil samples for testing. tests and in part to the incorrect classification Use of cleaner fuel (CDM) projects and their CO2 reductions programme delivered collaborative tools For a surcharge, DHL measures and offsets in earlier years of unused samples and sample DNV-classed ships using LNG as fuel 2011: By the year end, DNV had verified projects such as search technologies, collaboration carbon emissions for international air express oil from sulphur testing owing to the different – Ships in operation: 23 with a reduction of 150 million tonnes of spaces and social media facilities to enable shipments and provides DNVPS with a certilocal legislative classification of hazardous waste – Ships in order book: 14 CO2 equivalents issued from 972 verifications, employees to share knowledge and locate ficate stating the total amount of CO2 offset at one location. DNVPS laboratories’ hazardous which is 27% of the total number of CDM information, and to expand their internal on its behalf each year. The GOGREEN carbon waste mainly comes from tested oil samples Class notations that reduces the environmental verifications where CERs have been issued. networks – while at the same time reducing neutral shipping services cover the DNVPS and 98% is delivered to licensed handlers. The impact from ships due to air emissions and the need to travel. The programme also laboratories in Singapore, Oslo, Rotterdam, remaining 2% is incinerated on-site (figure 7). sea discharges: DNV validated CDM projects and their addressed the culture change, mindset and Houston and Fujairah. As part of the Singapore laboratory’s continShips in operation with Clean CO2 reductions Delivered to licensed contractors: processes necessary for employees to use DNVPS – the world’s leading marine fuel uous efforts to improve its waste water quality, and/or Clean Design: 660 By the year end, DNV had started validation collaborative tools effectively. DNV has management services provider, with a twoChemicals 45% it has recently installed an activated carbon Ship new buildings with Clean of 2,527 CDM projects which represent 26% already adopted videoconferencing and the thirds share of the global fuel quality testing Waste oil 44% filter downstream of the oil-water separating and/or Clean Design: 440 of all CDM projects submitted for validation. use of online collaboration tools in its daily services market – is the first auxiliary service Other 9% tank to capture any remaining traces of oil that Ships in operation with Volatile Organic Out of these 2,527 projects, 1,287 are registered business activities. Today, collaboration tools provider in the global maritime industry to Incinerated on-site: might still be present in the effluent stream Compound (VCS) notation: 950 and represent an estimated annual emission are widely used as a substitute for physical sign up for the DHL GOGREEN service. Waste oil 2% before its final discharge into the sewer. Ship new buildings with VCS notation: 340 reduction of 228 million tonnes CO2 equivalents. 42 43 Improving The number of incident reports per million worked hours varies for the different regions (figure 8). To some extent, these differences are assumed to reflect differences in reporting culture. 30% were due to broken or fractured bones, 34% to muscular sprains and 13% to burns. Of the work-related accident absence hours, 53% are related to surveys and inspections, 24% to transport and travelling and 17% to office work. Almost all of the absence hours Travel safety. Visits to customer sites and offices are an important part of the execution of DNV’s services and sometimes require travel to challenging destinations. Three training courses for employees travelling to areas with medium or high safety our health Sickness absence. The total sickness related to transport and travelling were due risks have been arranged from the headabsence rate has increased to 2.4% in 2011, to motor vehicle accidents. quarters at Høvik. The course participants, up from 2.2% in 2010, but this level is still Of the absence hours related to occupawho were physically located in a wide range considered acceptable. tional health issues, 86% were due to stress. of countries, took part via DNV’s videoconThe number of absence hours due to occuferencing facilities. Driving is seen as one of Accidents and occupational health pational health issues per million worked the significant risks faced by our employees, issues. The accident categories ‘Slips, trips or hours has increased to 18.3 in 2011, up from so defensive driver training is arranged in most and safety falls’, and ‘hitting or being struck by objects’ 5.0 in 2010. This increase is believed partly parts of the organisation. One innovative represents 39% and 42% respectively of to be a result of the DNV-wide focus on example here was DNV Italy’s Safety Driving the 133 accidents involving harm to people. the importance of reporting occupational course organised for all of its employees by Of the 61 occupational health issues health issues. a highly specialised company at the Monza reported, 42% were cause by ‘overstrain, For the type of accidents and occupational Motor-Speedway circuit. This event will exertion or repetitive strain’ and 22% were health issues with absence ≥8hrs per work be repeated in 2012 for newcomers. caused by ‘exposure to noise, extreme process, please see table 12. temperatures, or inadequate lightening Global safety awareness. The DNV or air quality’. People Engagement Survey questions Life Saver programme, initiated in late 2010, Figures 9 and 10 show how accidents and related to safety. The results of DNV’s focuses on the company’s 12 highest risk areas. occupational health issues are distributed annual People Engagement Survey related Support material and Life Saver posters were according to work processes. to safety confirmed a very positive attitude. distributed to all regions in early 2011 as part When asked whether ‘my line manager of the implementation of the programme. Lost time accidents and occupational always promotes safety first’, less than 2% All units across DNV were asked to select health issues with absence ≥8hrs. Lost of all employees answered in the negative. three life savers that reflected the highest time accidents per million worked hours (LTA) When asked whether ’I have been provided risks for their own operations and then to has decreased by 20% compared to 2010 with sufficient safety training and personal arrange meetings to discuss possible actions and the number of days’ absence due to lost protective equipment for my job’, less than to mitigate risks related to their chosen life Health and safety reports. The safety Bergen established a competition to see time accidents per million worked hours (SAI) 2% of the respondents working in producsavers. All DNV units introduced the proand health reports include hazards and inciwhich of them could best report the highest has decreased by 12.5% (table 11). Of the tion, production support and customer gramme during the course of 2011 and nearly health dents involving employees and contractors number of incidents and hazards. The result absence hours due to work-related accidents, management answered in the negative. 90% of them completed the first stage of and safety working for and on behalf of DNV and members of the public visiting DNV premises, of this initiative was an increase in reported incidents to 45 in 2011, up from 17 in 2010. the programme. The life saver programme will continue in 2012 with a focus on impleproperty and operations. Throughout DNV, The number of reported near-accidents menting improvement actions related to 711 work-related incidents and hazards were increased to 22, up from five, and the number table 11 health and Safety incidents statistics (for all of DNV) the three chosen life savers. reported in 2011, an increase of 15% compared of reported hazards was doubled. with 2010. DNV has good reason to believe Knowledge gained from the incident and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Safety and occupational health this increase is the result of the companyhazard reporting system is shared throughout training. The focus on SHE competence wide focus on the importance of reporting DNV using an incident-and-hazard-experience Fatal accidents 1 1 0 0 0 and awareness training continued in 2011. DNV AS was awarded the incidents and hazards, rather than a deterioonline database. This experience database, Lost time accidents 41 34 43 39 32 A training system covering all operations is OHSAS 18001 certificate from ration in occupational health and safety which contains de-personalised information now in place so that all new employees are standards. about serious incidents and hazards and Injury accidents 66 85 82 108 101 required to complete SHE induction training. the German certification body If we look at DNV operations in India and the preventative/corrective actions taken, All new employees working in the field must TÜV Rheinland Cert. Gmbh Occupational health issues, with absence 14 13 15 13 17 Sri Lanka, we see that in 2011 they focused can be accessed by all employees. In addicomplete both practical and theoretical on 28 September last year. on improving their reporting cultures after tion, a bi-monthly presentation containing Near accidents 93 137 175 202 246 safety training within 12 months of their This certification has required experiencing an underreporting of incidents a selection of the most significant incidents LTA 3.1 2.1 2.5 2.5 2.0 employment. Similar training must also be and hazards in previous years. These two is distributed throughout the organisation completed every 4–5 years as a refresher a thorough evolution of DNV’s operations have managed to establish an for use at unit meetings in order to raise SAI 50.8 23 26.1 28.8 25.2 course by all those working in the field. occupational health and safety employee understanding of the importance employee awareness. In addition, a new safety training module IAF 4.9 5.2 4.8 6.8 6.4 systems, which has built on our and benefits of reporting. They accomplished Of the 711 reported incidents and hazards, for laboratories was introduced in 2011, existing tool EasyRisk Manager, this through strong management commit30% were assessed as having a high and Total Sickness Absence Rate (%) 2.0 1.9 2.1 2.2 2.4 covering both induction training and ment, by sharing knowledge gained from medium loss potential. More than 70% refresher training for all employees in as well as DNV’s many years reports, through training and posters, and of those are related to surveys and inspecthe DNV Petroleum Services laboratories. of experience in occupational through active follow-up and the implementions and 17% are related to transport and Lost time accident: Occupational health issue: LTA (Lost Time Accident Frequency): Accident absence rate (%): Newly developed SHE courses for managers health and safety. tation of preventive actions. travelling. Accident resulting in Work environment conditions Number of Lost Time Accidents (Accident absence (two days) and SHE professionals (three days) injury to people and (including psychosocial work / million worked hours / number of worked hours) As a result, India and Sri Lanka almost The term ‘million worked hours’ in work absence >= 8 hrs environment and musculoskeletal SAI (Severity Accident Index): x 100 were held in four DNV regions during 2011: Injury accident: load) where exposure over a Number of days absence Total Sickness Absence Rate (%): doubled their incident and hazard reporting the safety and health incidents statistics Accident resulting in period of time results in illness due to Lost Time Accidents Average last 12 months the Middle East, Korea and Japan, Benelux this year compared to earlier years. In addirepresents hours worked by employees injury to people and to people, or a work activity / million worked hours ((Accident+Sickness absence) and Germany, and South America. The work absence < 8 hrs resulting in illness to people. IAF (Injury Accident Frequency): / Number of worked hours) tion, the materials laboratories at Høvik and on permanent and long-term contracts. Number of Injury Accidents x 100 training programme for managers and / million worked hours SHE professionals continues in 2012. 44 45 Safety programmes in China. The safeIn addition, the severity of accidents has figure 09 Accidents distributed Managers are now better trained to detect table 12 type of accidents and occupational health issues ty programme initiated in 2007 and run for declined, with a 34% reduction in the BY work processes the early warning signs related to stress and with absence ≥ 8 hours per work processes the past three years was continued in 2011. number of days’ absence due to accidents. to perform their ‘duty of care’. Follow-up The main focus in 2011 was on the continuA new emergency preparedness and meetings with employees in all sections Lifting operations Transport / travelling ation of the safety and occupational health response procedure was established in have been held. In addition, the company Transfer at sea training programme, good cooperation with 2011 and an emergency drill exercise was doctor in the German organisation can be Inspections Office work Teambuilding Grand total the yards on safety issues, and emergency performed along with one of China’s major contacted directly when needed. Catering Lab work preparedness and response. The joint safety shipyards. DNV’s 25-man team at Dalian In North America, DNV started a health tours with all yards with a DNV presence Shipbuilding Industry Co (DSIC) participated promotion programme that is being offered Accident category that were initiated in 2010 continued in in an on-site emergency drill. The exercise as a benefit to all employees and their spouses. 2011. After some years with a decrease in involved the rescue of a DNV surveyor from The programme includes incentives, free Allergic reaction 1 1 the number of accidents and an increase a ballast water tank after he had been health improvement supplies of chewing in reporting levels for hazards and nearexposed to toxic gas and lost consciousness. gum and patches as an aid to stop smoking, Chemicals 1 1 accidents, these trends seem to have evened Working in confined spaces has been identihealth screenings, computer-based health Contact with hot / cold surfaces 1 1 2 out for DNV operations in China in 2011. fied as one of the major risks in the shipping/ assessments, health information and proshipbuilding industry. The objective of the grammes, and on-going telephone support Fire / explosion 1 1 exercise was to improve DNV’s awareness, provided by a wellness coach. A reduction Forced entry 1 1 figure 08 Number of incidents per region to test the shipyard’s emergency procedures, of 16% in the sick-leave hour ratio compared / million hours worked to ensure the incident was correctly handled to 2010 is one indication of the success of Hit against / struck by 2 2 1 6 11 Inspections 31% by DNV personnel, and to identify any areas the programme. Office work 26% Overstrain / exertion / repetitive strain 1 1 4 6 for improvement. The drill, which was well africa Transport / travelling 19% executed, has proven of great value to both Emergency preparedness. 2011 was a Slips / trips / falls 7 1 2 1 1 3 15 Lab work 6% DSIC and DNV. This was the first time DNV year when a number of completely unexTransfer at sea 5% Squeezed / trapped 1 1 participated in such a joint drill together pected issues impacted the lives of the DNV Confined spaces 4% with a shipyard in China. The company staff and our business, and where emerTropical disease 1 1 Teambuilding 3% asia / oceania now aims to promote similar drills at all gency preparedness plans suddenly became Working at heights 2% High workload 1 5 1 7 production facilities with a DNV presence. required action plans as we looked after Meetings / catering 2% our staff and protected our business. Unhygienic food 1 1 2 Safety programme in Vietnam. A simiDiving 2% When the March 11 earthquake hit Japan Lifting operations 1% Grand total 1 15 1 1 15 1 2 13 49 lar programme to the one implemented last year, followed by a tsunami that led to Europe in China has now also been initiated in a nuclear power plant meltdown with radiaVietnam. The Vietnamese programme tion contamination, none of the 200 DNV includes visiting yards, performing joint employees in the country were directly about the consequences of nuclear radiation, Throughout 2011, piracy continued to be safety tours and promoting good safety figure 10 Occupational health issues affected. Even though the telephone netcontamination and exposure. He also had the scourge of the shipping industry around MIDDLE EAST practices. DNV’s objective is to establish distributed BY work processes work broke down immediately following the the benefit of conferring with specialists the Red Sea, Indian Ocean and Gulf area. increased co-operation with the yards earthquake, we quickly managed to confirm in these areas at the Høvik office. This situation has given rise to a new issue through combined efforts to improve that no one was missing or physically hurt. Just two months earlier and a half a world to be considered by DNV and ship owners safety standards. An updated telephone list of all employees, away, a flash flood brought chaos to the in relation to voyage surveys. Pirate attacks NORDIC / BALTIC a part of the emergency instructions, city of Jeddah in Saudi Arabia, a country on ships are being monitored as they are Occupational health. Because anyone proved to be extremely useful. The Tokyo/ not normally known for its rainfall, and this spreading further out from Somalia, and can suffer from it, stress – private as well Yokohama area had rolling power blackouts flood affected all communications, roads, voyage surveys and ship security plans as work-related – has become one of today’s and strong after-shocks for several weeks transport and the power grid. The DNV are discussed with ship owners and staff. NORTH-AMERICA major health issues. Workplace stress, which following the earthquake. Like others in Jeddah office was cut off by floods, leaving More restrictions on travel have been implecan have serious implications for employee the area, DNV employees experienced water our staff isolated in our office building overmented again in order to protect our staff. health and wellbeing, is a dominant factor and food shortages in convenience stores night. The building and local infrastructure All these events are impossible to prevent. impacting the occupational health area. and supermarkets, as well as shortages of situation were reviewed, the power arrangeHowever, the way in which we deal with As such, it has received increased DNV focus. petrol for cars. The company offered all its ments for the office were improved, and them – in order, firstly, to protect our staff NORWAY In 2011, DNV in Germany worked proacemployees in the Tokyo area the opportunity the emergency plan was revised. and, secondly, to ensure business is maintively to reduce stress and mitigate other to move temporarily to Kobe, an additional Despite the Japanese crisis capturing most tained in a safe manner – is well within occupational health-related issues. A new 550 km from the damaged Fukushima Daiichi of the headlines in March, political tensions our control. These situations confirm the company doctor – a stress management nuclear power plant. arose in Bahrain that month, bringing chaos importance of emergency preparedness SOUTH-AMERICA consultant – was hired in order to identify When the Norwegian Embassy decided to the streets and prompting the governplanning and the continuous need to sources of work stress. He began by initiOffice work 71% to temporarily move its activities from Tokyo ment to impose a curfew until hostilities monitor areas of threat to ensure that ating activities to eliminate and reduce the Inspections 12% to Kobe, it made use of the DNV meeting died down. All DNV employees were sent travel is adequately restricted. root causes of job stress, including organTransport / travelling 7% room facilities there, staying for nearly one home during the tension. At the height of ising lectures and training lessons for the Lifting operations 3% and a half months. In emergency situations, the rioting, regular contact was maintained 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 management team. As a result, the managers Meetings / catering 3% it is important to take action based on facts with the staff that opted to stay. Some of gained increased awareness about work Lab work 2% and not emotions. DNV was fortunate, as the staff preferred to be moved out of the Injury Lost Time Occupational Accidents Accidents Health issues stress, its causes, signs and solutions. Transfers 2% the country manager was knowledgeable country and this was handled quickly. 46 47 how we PERFORM As a self-owned foundation, DNV has no shareholders. The Group’s financial accounts show DNV’s consolidated income statement, balance sheet, statement of cash flow and notes. The consolidated financial statements (Det Norske Veritas Group) include the results of the foundation (Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas) and all the subsidiaries in which the foundation directly or indirectly has control. Key figures Income statement Balance sheet Cash flow statement Notes Auditor’s report Key figures Income statement STIFTELSEN 1 january 31 december DET NORSKE VERITAS amounts in NOK million DET NORSKE VERITAS amounts in NOK million group Definition of ratios 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009 Note 2011 2010 2009 Profitability Income statement Operating revenue Operating margin: Operating revenue 10 156 9 792 10 283 9 560 8 126 0.0 0.0 1.2 Sales revenue 10 156.4 9 791.7 10 283.1 Operating profit x 100 / Depreciation 213 200 235 189 166 Operating revenue Operating profit 1 058 810 1 108 1 188 873 Pre-tax profit margin: 0.0 0.0 1.2 Total operating revenue 3 10 156.4 9 791.7 10 283.1 Profit before tax x 100 / Net financial income (expenses) 29 101 129 (82) (1) Operating revenue Profit before tax 1 088 911 1 237 1 106 872 Net profit margin: Profit for the year 730 613 854 642 536 Profit for the year x 100 / Operating expenses Operating revenue 0.0 0.0 0.0 Payroll expenses 4, 6, 7 5 577.6 5 613.7 5 632.1 Return on total assets: Balance sheet 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciation 13,14,16 196.2 199.7 214.8 (Operating profit Fixed assets 2 445 2 334 2 300 2 467 2 120 + Financial income) x 100 / 0.0 0.0 0.0 Write down of goodwill 13 16.8 0.0 19.9 Average total assets Current assets 7 538 6 529 5 903 6 015 4 803 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other operating expenses 5 3 307.2 3 167.9 3 308.1 Return on equity: Total assets 9 983 8 863 8 203 8 482 6 922 Profit before tax x 100 / Average equity 0.0 0.0 1.2 Operating profit 1 058.5 810.4 1 108.2 Equity 6 092 6 261 5 528 4 545 4 492 Liquidity Provisions and long-term liabilities 1 212 338 523 919 409 Cash flow: Current liabilities 2 679 2 264 2 152 3 018 2 021 Profit before tax Financial income and expenses + Depreciation 14.5 82.2 128.7 Financial income 90.5 135.7 215.7 Taxes payable Cash flow items, working (17.7) (0.1) (0.8) Financial expenses (61.2) (35.0) (86.5) Current ratio: capital and investments: Current assets / Current liabilities Purchase of tangible fixed assets 132 169 349 234 176 (3.2) 82.1 127.9 Net financial income (expenses) 9 29.3 100.7 129.2 Working capital 4 859 4 265 3 751 2 997 2 781 Liquidity reserves: Cash and bank deposits + Cash flow 869 809 1 186 803 749 Short-term financial (3.2) 82.1 129.1 Profit (loss) before tax 1 087.7 911.1 1 237.4 investments Liquidity cover: Number of employees 8 453 8 440 8 866 8 694 7 691 (29.9) (21.4) (24.3) Tax expense 11 (357.6) (298.3) (383.2) Liquidity reserves x 100 / (Total operating expenses – Depreciation) Financial ratios (33.1) 60.7 104.8 Profit (loss) for the year 730.1 612.8 854.2 Profitability: Leverage Operating margin 10.4% 8.3% 10.8% 12.4% 10.7% Equity ratio: Transferred to / (covered from) Pre tax profit margin 10.7% 9.3% 12.0% 11.6% 10.7% Equity x 100 / Total assets (33.1) 60.7 104.8 other equity Net profit margin 7.2% 6.3% 8.3% 6.7% 6.6% Return on total assets 12.2% 11.1% 15.9% 16.2% 14.4% Return on equity 17.6% 15.5% 24.6% 24.5% 20.8% Liquidity: Current ratio 2.8 2.9 2.7 2.0 2.4 Liquidity reserves 4 074 3 320 2 867 2 118 2 206 Liquidity cover 45.9% 37.8% 32.1% 25.9% 31.1% Leverage: Equity ratio 61.0% 70.6% 67.4% 53.6% 64.9% 50 51 Balance sheet STIFTELSEN as per 31 december DET NORSKE VERITAS STIFTELSEN as per 31 december DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS amounts in NOK million group DET NORSKE VERITAS amounts in NOK million group 2011 2010 2009 Note 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Note 2011 2010 2009 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Fixed assets Equity Intangible fixed assets Paid-in capital 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax assets 11 585.1 233.3 283.1 283.5 283.5 283.5 Foundation capital 283.5 283.5 283.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 Goodwill 13 88.7 114.4 120.0 Retained earnings 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 14 15.9 12.9 18.9 904.6 937.7 877.0 Other equity 5 808.2 5 977.2 5 244.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total intangible fixed assets 689.7 360.6 422.0 1 188.1 1 221.2 1 160.5 Total equity 23 6 091.7 6 260.7 5 527.8 Tangible fixed assets 6.4 6.4 6.4 Land, buildings and other property 1 103.1 1 123.2 1 118.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Office equipment, fixtures and fittings 315.8 344.9 357.1 Liabilities 6.4 6.4 6.4 Total tangible fixed assets 16 1 418.9 1 468.2 1 475.5 Provisions 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension liabilities 7 1 076.2 141.7 367.2 Financial fixed assets 0.2 0.2 0.3 Deferred tax 11 16.5 17.1 11.6 10.1 10.1 10.1 Investments in subsidiaries 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other provisions 119.7 179.6 144.5 0.0 0.3 0.3 Long-term shareholdings 17 15.7 22.6 25.5 0.2 0.2 0.3 Total provisions 1 212.3 338.4 523.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prepaid pension 7 0.0 126.1 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.3 Other long-term receivables 19 320.4 356.4 376.9 Current liabilities 10.1 10.7 10.8 Total financial fixed assets 336.1 505.2 402.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Overdrafts 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade creditors 297.4 238.5 259.7 16.5 17.1 17.2 Total fixed assets 2 444.7 2 333.9 2 299.9 28.4 22.7 27.3 Tax payable 293.0 271.7 244.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Public duties payable 301.5 277.5 259.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other short-term liabilities 18 1 787.0 1 476.0 1 388.3 Current assets 28.4 22.7 27.3 Total current liabilities 2 678.9 2 263.6 2 151.5 Debtors 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade debtors 2 212.3 2 060.1 2 004.5 28.6 22.9 27.6 Total liabilities 3 891.2 2 602.0 2 674.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Work in progress 893.7 771.6 716.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other debtors 358.4 377.5 314.4 1 216.7 1 244.1 1 188.1 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9 982.9 8 862.7 8 202.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total debtors 3 464.4 3 209.3 3 035.5 591.2 782.6 712.2 Short-term financial investments 8 591.2 782.6 712.2 609.0 444.4 458.7 Cash and bank deposits 20 3 482.6 2 536.9 2 155.0 The Board of Directors of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, Høvik, 19 April 2012 1 200.2 1 227.0 1 170.9 Total current assets 7 538.2 6 528.8 5 902.7 1 216.7 1 244.1 1 188.1 TOTAL ASSETS 9 982.9 8 862.7 8 202.6 Leif-Arne Langøy Morten Ulstein C. Thomas Rehder John H. Wiik Hilde M. Tonne Chairman Frances Morris-Jones Wei Chen Odd Sund Sille Grjotheim Mette Bandholtz Henrik O. Madsen Chief Executive Officer 52 53 Cash flow statement Notes all amounts in NOK million STIFTELSEN 1 january 31 december DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS amounts in NOK million group 2011 2010 2009 Note 2011 2010 2009 01 Accounting principles CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS (3.2) 82.1 129.1 Profit before tax 1 087.7 911.1 1 237.4 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance stances which may not be regarded as incidental, and deemed 0.0 0.0 (1.2) Gain / loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets (6.9) (5.2) (0.9) with the Norwegian Accounting Act of 1998 and generally necessary by generally accepted accounting principles. Write 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain on divestments 15 (41.0) 0.0 0.0 accepted accounting principles in Norway. downs are reversed when the cause of the initial write down is no longer present. 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain on sale of investment in associates 0.0 0.0 0.0 Consolidation principles. The consolidated statements An associate is an entity in which the Group has a significant 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciations and writedown 213.0 199.7 234.7 include Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas and all companies in which influence but does not control the management of its finances (29.9) (21.5) (24.0) Tax payable (371.8) (302.0) (321.3) Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas directly or indirectly has actual and operations (normally when the Group owns 20%-50% control. The group accounts show Det Norske Veritas’ consoli­ of the company). Investments in associated companies are Change in work in progress, dated income statement, balance sheet and statement of cash valued in accordance with the equity method. The share of 0.0 0.0 0.0 trade debtors and trade creditors (221.5) (124.2) 862.4 flow as a single economic entity. Subsidiaries follow the same profits is based on profits after tax in the associated company, accounting principles as the parent company. Intercompany less internal gains and possible amortisation of surplus value 5.7 (4.5) (19.6) Change in other accruals 178.4 (46.6) (1 036.1) transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated accounts. caused by the cost of shares being higher than the acquired (27.4) 56.1 84.3 Net cash flow from operations 838.0 632.8 976.2 Acquired subsidiaries are reported in the financial statements share of equity. In the income statement, the share of profit on the basis of the parent company’s acquisition cost. The cost is stated as financial income/ financial expenses. of the shares in the parent company’s books is eliminated against When the Group’s share of a loss exceeds the Group’s invest­ the equity in the subsidiary at the date of acquisition. The acquis­ition ment in an associate, the amount carried in the Group’s balance CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENTS cost is allocated by attributing fair values to the identifiable sheet is reduced to zero and further losses are not recognised 0.0 0.0 0.0 Acquisitions (58.2) (39.3) (19.0) assets and liabilities acquired. Surplus value in excess of the fair unless the Group has an obligation to cover any such loss. value of identifiable net assets is reported in the balance sheet In the parent account, dividends, group contributions and 0.0 0.0 0.0 Divestments 60.4 0.0 106.5 as goodwill. Goodwill is amortised linearly through the income other distributions are recognised in the same year as they are 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in tangible fixed assets 16 (131.8) (168.6) (349.2) statement over its expected useful economic life. recognised in the subsidiary financial statement. If dividends / The allocation of costs in a business combination is changed group contribution exceed withheld profits after acquisition, 0.0 0.0 1.2 Sale of tangible fixed assets (sales value) 20.0 25.0 13.0 if new information on the fair value becomes available and is the excess amount represents repayment of invested capital, Currency effects on tangible and applicable on the date when control is assumed. The allocation and the distribution will be deducted from the recorded value 0.0 0.0 0.0 intangible fixed assets 19.0 (0.3) 70.8 may be altered until the annual accounts are presented or of the acquisition in the balance sheet for the parent company. prior to the expiry of a 12-month period. 0.6 0.0 230.0 Change in other investments 6.9 2.9 (9.6) Use of estimates. The management has used estimates 0.6 0.0 231.2 Net cash flow from investments (83.7) (180.3) (187.5) Translation of foreign subsidiaries. When translating and assumptions that have affected assets, liabilities, income, the financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries to Norwegian expenses and information on potential liabilities in accordance currency, the items in the income statement are translated at with generally accepted accounting principles in Norway. the average exchange rate for the financial year. Assets and Future events may lead to change of estimates. Estimated CASH FLOW FROM CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and fair and underlying assumptions are assessed on a continuous basis. value adjust­ments, are translated into NOK using the exchange Changes in accounting estimates are accounted for in the 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in overdrafts 0.0 (0.2) 0.2 rate applicable on the balance sheet date. Exchange-rate period the change occurs. 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net cash flow from capital transactions 0.0 (0.2) 0.2 diffe­rences are recognised in equity. Forward exchange contracts related to hedging of net Revenue recognition and work in progress. Revenue investments in foreign subsidiaries are treated as hedging from sale of services is recognised according to the percentage instruments where the exchange rate differences of the of completion method. Work in progress is recognised at estiLIQUIDITY hedging instrument are recognised in the equity. mated sales value. Changes in work in progress is recognised (27.4) 56.1 84.3 Net cash flow from operations 838.0 632.8 936.2 as operating revenue. Cash flow hedges. The effective portion of the gain or loss Revenue from the sale of services is recognised in the income 0.6 0.0 231.2 Net cash flow from investments (83.7) (180.3) (187.5) on the hedging instrument established for hedging of cash flows statement according to the project’s level of completion provided 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net cash flow from capital transactions 0.0 (0.2) 0.2 is not accounted for. Gains or losses on the hedging instrument the outcome of the transaction can be estimated reliably. Progress are recorded as financial income or expenses at realization. is measured as the number of hours spent compared to the total (26.8) 56.1 315.5 Net change in liquidity during the year 754.3 452.3 748.9 Any ineffective portion is recognized in the income statement. number of hours estimated. When the outcome of the transaction cannot be estimated reliably, only revenue equal to the project 1 227.0 1 170.9 855.4 Liquidity at 1 January 3 319.5 2 867.2 2 118.3 Subsidiaries/ associates. Investments in subsidiaries are costs that have been incurred will be recognised as revenue. valued at the cost method in the parent company accounts. The total estimated loss on a contract will be recognised in the 1 200.2 1 227.0 1 170.9 Liquidity at 31 December 4 073.8 3 319.5 2 867.2 The investment is valued as cost of acquiring shares in the subsidiary, income statement during the period when it is identified that provided write down is not required. Write down to fair value a project will generate a loss. is carried out when the reduction in value is caused by circum­ 54 55 notes 02 Classification and valuation of assets and liabilities. economic life and tested for impairment if there are any Assets meant for permanent ownership or use are classified indications. The amortisation method and period are assessed Subsidiaries of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas as fixed assets. Other assets are classified as current assets. at least once a year. Changes to the amortisation method Receivables to be paid within one year are always classified and/or period are accounted for as a change in estimate. as current assets. Shortand long-term liabilities are classified Intangible assets with an indefinite economic life are tested Stifelsen Det Norske Veritas owns 100% of the shares in Det Norske Veritas Holding AS. correspondingly. for impairment at least once a year, either individually or as Current assets are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable a part of a cash-generating unit. Business Share OwnerBook value. Short-term debt is recognised at nominal value at time Company office capital ship value of establishment. Goodwill. The difference between the cost of an acquisition Fixed assets are valued at cost. However, if a decline in value of business and the fair value of net identifiable assets on Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Bærum 10.1 100% 10.1 is expected not to be temporary, fixed assets are written down the acquisition date is recognised as goodwill. For investment to recoverable amount. Fixed assets with a limited useful in associates, goodwill is included in the investment’s carrying Det Norske Veritas Holding AS has three wholly owned subsidiaries, Det Norske Veritas AS (86 subsidiaries ), DNV Business economic life are depreciated in accordance with a linear amount. Assurance Group AS (30 subsidiaries) and Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS. With the exception of some financial transactions, depreciation plan. Long-term debt is recognised at nominal Goodwill is recognised at cost in the balance sheet, minus Det Norske Veritas operates through the subsidiaries of Det Norske Veritas Holding AS. value at time of establish­ment. Direct transaction costs are any accumulated depreciation. Goodwill is amortised linearly capitalised over the loan period. through the income statement over its expected useful economic life, normally considered to be a period of 5 years unless there Debtors. Trade receivables and other current receivables are are special reasons for a longer depreciation period. recorded in the balance sheet at nominal value less provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions for doubtful debts are calculated on the basis of individual assessments. In addition, for the remainder Research and development. Research and development costs are expensed when incurred. Cost incurred related to 03 Operating revenue DET NORSKE VERITAS – group of accounts receivables outstanding balances, a general provision development projects entering into a commercial product or Geographical area 2011 2010 2009 is made to cover expected losses. service phase are capitalized. Nordic countries 3 508.4 3 343.9 3 640.8 Foreign currency. Monetary items denominated in a foreign Pensions. Pension costs and pension liabilities for the defined Europe and Africa 2 113.6 2 146.7 2 490.5 currency are translated at the exchange rate at the balance sheet benefit plans are estimated on the basis of linear earnings and date. Financial instruments, mainly forward exchange contracts assumptions of: discount rate, projected annual salary adjustments, Asia Pacific 2 972.1 2 804.3 2 708.9 and currency swaps, are used to hedge all significant items pension and other payments from the national insurance fund, North and South America 1 562.3 1 496.8 1 442.9 denominated in the most common foreign currencies. These expected annual return on plan assets and actuarial assumptions hedges are included at market value at 31 December. of deaths, voluntary resignations etc. Plan assets are valued at Total operating revenue 10 156.4 9 791.7 10 283.1 Realised and unrealised currency effects are included on a net fair value and deducted from net pension liabilities in the balance basis in either other financial income or other financial expenses. sheet. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in the Premiums paid for currency and interest rate options are equity. capitalised and amortised over the life of the contract. 04 Tax. The tax expense in the income statement includes taxes Financial investments. Short-term financial investments, payable and change in deferred taxes. Deferred taxes are calculated which are defined as part of a trading portfolio, are valued at based on the temporary differences existing between book values Payroll expenses market value at the balance sheet date. Dividends and other and tax values, together with tax loss carry-forwards at the end distributions are recognized as financial income. of the accounting period. Tax increasing and tax reducing Long-term shareholdings where DNV does not exercise temporary differences expected to reverse in the same period STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group significant influence are recognised at cost. Each investment are offset and calculated on a net basis. Deferred tax assets are is written down to net realisable value if lower than cost. recognised to the extent utilisation of these assets can be justified. 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 0.0 0.0 0.0 Salaries 4 295.5 4 310.2 4 289.9 Property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and Provisions. A provision is recognised when the Group has an equipment are capitalised and depreciated over the estimated obligation (legal or self-imposed) as a result of a previous event, 0.0 0.0 0.0 Payroll tax 591.9 572.7 586.7 useful economic life. Maintenance costs are expensed as incurred, it is probable (more likely than not) that a financial settlement 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension costs 392.8 398.8 412.9 whereas improvement and upgrading are assigned to the acquiwill take place as a result of this obligation and the size of the sition cost and depreciated along with the asset. If carrying amount can be measured reliably. If the effect is considerable, 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other contributions 297.4 332.0 342.6 value of a non-current asset exceeds the estimated recoverable the provision is calculated by discounting estimated future cash 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total payroll expenses 5 577.6 5 613.7 5 632.1 amount, the asset is written down to the recoverable amount. flows using a discount rate before tax that reflects the market’s 0.0 0.0 0.0 Man years 8 284 8 303 8 737 The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price pricing of the time value of money and, if relevant, risks specifically and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future linked to the obligation. 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total bonus expenses 100.0 90.0 0.0 cash flows are discounted to their present value. If Det Norske Veritas Group is involved in litigation, and a claim has been made, then provisions for these claims are made in the Intangible assets. Intangible assets that have been acquired accounts based on a best estimate of the validity and amount separately are carried at cost. The costs of intangible assets acquired of the claim. through an acquisition are recognised at their fair value in the Group’s opening balance sheet. Capitalised intangible assets are Cash flow statement. The cash flow statement is presented recognised at cost less any amortisation and impairment losses. using the indirect method. Cash and cash equivalents includes Internally generated intangible assets are not capitalised but cash, bank deposits and other short term, highly liquid invest­ are expensed as occurred. ments with maturities of three months or less. The economic life is either definite or indefinite. Intangible assets with a definite economic life are amortised over their 56 57 notes 05 Other operating expenses Remuneration to the Board of Directors paid out in 2011: name board Remuneration Comp. travel time name board Remuneration Comp. travel time STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group Leif-Arne Langøy1 361 667 0 Odd Sund 205 833 0 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Atle Bergshaven 1 200 000 0 Sille Grjotheim 205 833 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Travel expenses 657.4 637.9 668.7 Morten Ulstein 3 172 083 0 David McKay 2 100 833 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Hired assistance 507.9 458.8 539.3 Hilde M. Tonne 205 833 60 000 Chen Wei 3 122 500 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 ICT and communication expenses 319.4 356.4 371.9 John H. Wiik 205 833 0 Christine Maidment 2 100 833 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Office and real estate expenses 331.7 391.2 362.5 C. Thomas Rehder 205 833 0 Mette Bandholtz 3 122 500 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loss on claims 16.3 65.9 60.9 Frances Morris-Jones 205 833 0 1) Leif Arne Langøy replaced Atle Bergshaven as chairman 2) January–June 3) June–December 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other expenses 1 474.5 1 257.7 1 304.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total other operating expenses 3 307.2 3 167.9 3 308.1 Remuneration to the Control Committee paid out in 2011: Remuneration to the Compensation Committee paid out in 2011: name Remuneration name Remuneration Erling Øverland 107 917 Leif-Arne Langøy 1 16 000 06 REMUNERATIONs AND LOANS TO CEO, EXECUTIVE committee, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETC. Arne Thorsen Terje Overvik Per Terje Vold1 1 71 750 42 583 29 167 Atle Bergshaven1 Morten Ulstein John H. Wiik 2 6 000 8 000 12 000 Chief Executive Officer Henrik O. Madsen has a pensionable In case of resignation before the age of 62, CEO is entitled, 1) Terje Overvik replaced Per Terje Vold from June 2011 1) Leif Arne Langøy replaced Atle Bergshaven as chairman from June 2011 2) June–December annual base salary of NOK 2 852 640 and a functional allowance given certain circumstances, to a severance pay of maximum including free housing of NOK 1 402 560. 2 years of base salary. Madsen has a right to retire at 62 years with a yearly pension equal The CEO and the Executive Committee have no separate Fees to the auditors for 2011 (excluding VAT): Statutory Tax consulting Other attest non-audit to 66% of his pensionable annual base salary at date of retirement. bonus schemes other than those applicable for the employees. Name audit services services services Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas 300 000 0 0 0 Salary & Pension benefit functional Other bonus earned / Group auditor other Norwegian entities 1 970 000 56 000 110 000 1 003 000 Remunerations Name to the Executive committee for 2011 allowance benefits paid2 cost to DNV Group auditor non-Norwegian entities 9 112 000 5 985 600 424 800 0 Henrik O. Madsen 4 368 889 359 426 60 503 1 926 972 Other auditors 1 339 265 286 883 9 542 164 458 Tor E. Svensen 3 030 262 164 231 50 513 1 011 791 Total 12 721 265 6 328 483 544 342 1 167 458 Remi Eriksen1 1 895 098 1 888 425 33 244 443 579 Bjørn K. Haugland 1 753 983 199 019 32 553 369 934 Jostein Furnes 2 194 325 183 441 41 533 611 107 07 Cecilie B. Heuch 1 759 050 165 814 32 553 74 041 Ioannis Kourmatzis 1 2 413 114 630 321 30 547 292 555 Pension costs, plan assets and defined benefit pension liabilities Elisabeth Tørstad 1 1 679 748 597 418 29 926 332 743 Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen 1 421 133 149 554 25 818 260 814 Det Norske Veritas has both defined benefit pension plans and are related to the defined benefit pension plans and NOK Olav Nortun 1 730 268 150 542 32 440 461 634 defined contribution pension plans. The defined benefit pension 227.8 million are related to the contribution pension plans. plans are covered through separate pension funds or through arrangeThe Norwegian companies in the Group are subject to the Repayment Loans Name to the Executive committee at 31 Dec. 2011 Loan amount Interest rate period Security ments with insurance companies. The future pension benefits are Norwegain Pension Act. The companies’ pension schemes fulfill based on the employee’s salary level at the time of retirement and the requirements of the law. Henrik O. Madsen 2 412 114 1.4 % Nov. 2018 Mortgage on the number of years of membership. This is the basis for calculatNorwegian employees are covered either by the Norwegian ing the pension cost and the pension liabilities as included in the defined contribution pension plan (mainly employees employed Tor E. Svensen 527 800 1.4 % Mar. 2028 Mortgage accounts and in this note. Contribution to the Group’s pension after 1 January 2005), or the defined benefit pension plan organised Remi Eriksen1 0 plans are made in accordance with common actuarial methods in in one Norwegian pension fund (employees employed before Bjørn K. Haugland 2 318 400 1.4 % Dec. 2034 Mortgage the country where the pension plan is administered. Total pension 1 January 2005) and in one unfunded pension plan. The pension costs for 2011 are NOK 392.8 million, of which NOK 165.0 million assets in the Norwegian pension fund are invested as follows: Jostein Furnes 2 193 290 1.4 % Jul. 2031 Mortgage Cecilie B. Heuch 0 Ioannis Kourmatzis 1 0 Elisabeth Tørstad1 0 Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen 0 Olav Nortun 0 1) Expatriate assignments 2) Paid 2011 earned 2010 58 59 notes 07 Pension costs, plan assets and defined benefit pension liabilities (continued) 08 Short-term financial investments Market value of plan assets in Norway 31 DEC 11 31 DEC 10 31 DEC 09 STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group Buildings and property 253.2 220.7 221.9 market market purchase value book purchase value book Mutual equity funds and hedge funds 1 597.9 1 827.3 1 554.8 price regulation value price regulation value Norwegian bonds and bond funds 583.7 431.0 226.0 188.1 0.0 188.1 Money market funds 188.1 0.0 188.1 Non-Norwegian bonds and bond funds 613.0 669.3 606.2 228.1 (1.1) 227.0 Bond funds 228.1 (1.1) 227.0 Money market, bank accounts, other assets and liabilities 1 141.5 1 032.7 1 124.0 157.9 18.2 176.1 Equity funds 157.9 18.2 176.1 Total market value of plan assets 4 189.3 4 181.0 3 732.9 574.1 17.1 591.2 Total short-term financial investments 574.1 17.1 591.2 Actual return on plan assets (88.2) 358.8 510.0 09 Norwegian defined Other defined benefit benefit pension plans pension plans outside Norway Financial income and financial expenses 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Net present value of this year's pension contribution 150.8 147.9 142.6 29.4 38.4 40.7 STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group Interest expense on pension liabilities 157.7 165.2 155.5 54.6 55.3 53.0 Expected return on plan assets (188.1) (186.6) (161.6) (56.4) (58.1) (49.6) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Payroll tax 17.0 17.8 19.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 (17.6) 69.6 111.2 Return on financial investments (17.6) 69.6 111.2 Curtailment / pension plan changes 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (10.2) 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.7 Dividend from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net pension cost 137.3 144.3 155.7 27.7 25.4 44.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Profit from investment in associates 0.0 0.0 6.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain from sale of associates 0.0 0.0 40.0 Plan assets and pension liabilities: 0.0 0.0 0.1 Net interest received from Group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Market value of plan assets 4 189.3 4 181.0 3 732.9 1 078.1 931.0 1 031.1 14.4 12.5 15.2 Other net interest income (expense) 53.8 59.1 5.4 Actuarial present value of pension liabilities (4 996.8) (4 006.7) (3 725.3) (1 160.1) (1 072.7) (1 334.3) 0.0 0.0 (0.3) Currency gains (losses) (10.9) (15.4) (27.8) Payroll tax (186.6) (48.2) (71.6) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other financial items 4.0 (12.7) (6.3) Net prepaid pension (liabilities) (994.2) 126.1 (64.0) (82.0) (141.7) (303.2) (3.2) 82.1 127.9 Net financial income (expenses) 29.3 100.7 129.2 Hereof recorded as plan assets 126.1 Hereof recorded as pension liabilities (994.2) (64.0) (82.0) (141.7) (303.2) The assumptions for calculation of the pension liabilities in Norway have been changed. The consequence in 2011 is increased pension liabilities of NOK 804 million. End of service benefit schemes, in some countries outside Norway, considered to be defined benefit schemes, have been actuarially calculated in accordance with NGAAP. The total liability at year-end 10 Financial market risk is NOK 52 million (NOK 61 million in 2010). The Group’s main financial market risks are liquidity risk, foreign The most important contracts are in USD (36%) and EUR (14%). currency risk, credit risk and interest rate risk. Unrealized net loss at year end is NOK 84 million. The final calculation of the defined benefit pension norwegian schemes other schemes outside Norway liabilities is based on the following assumptions: Liquidity risk. The Group monitors its liquidity risk on an ongoing Credit risk. Outstanding receivable are monitored on an on2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 basis. The liquidity planning considers the maturity of both the going basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad financial investments and financial assets (e.g. accounts receivable, debts is limited. There are no significant concentrations of credit Discount rate 3.0% 4.0% 4.5% 4.6-5.5% 4.7-5.4% 4.0-5.7% other financial assets) and projected cash flows from operations. risk within the Group. With respect to credit risk arising from Projected annual salary adjustment 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 2.0-4.0% 2.0-4.4% 2.2-5.1% the other financial assets of the Group, which comprises cash Projected annual increase in pension benefit 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 0.0-3.0% 0.0-3.3% 0.0-3.0% Foreign currency risk. The Group has revenues and expenses in and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial investments approximately 50 currencies. Of these, six currencies (NOK, EUR, USD, and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to Projected annual increase in Norwegian CNY, KRW and GBP) make up for approximately 75% of the total credit risk arises from default of the counter-party, with a maxigovernment basis pension 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% revenue. In many currencies DNV has a natural hedge through a mum exposure equal to the market value of these instruments. Expected annual return on plan assets 4.0% 4.5% 5.0% 3.5-5.75% 3.8-6.7% 4.5-7.8% balance of revenue and expenses. Major imbalances on the balance sheet are hedged through forward exchange contracts. As part Interest rate risk. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes of this hedging, DNV has forward exchange contracts in 20 currenin market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s shortOrdinary retirement age in Det Norske Veritas is 67 years. cies, totalling a net amount of approximately NOK 2 500 million. term financial investments and forward exchange contracts. Some managers and employees are entitled to retire before the age of 67 with full pension rights earned. 60 61 notes 11 TAX STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS In December 2011, Det Norske Veritas Holding AS signed an agreement to acquire 74.3 % of the shares in N.V. KEMA. N.V. KEMA is the parent company of a group of companies with 1,800 employees ing owners have a put option for the shares after two years. The option structure is such that it is highly likely that an acquisition of the remaining shares will take place in March 2014 DET NORSKE VERITAS group and a global presence. The closing took place on 28 February 2012. and 100% of the N.V. KEMA Group will be included in the DNV Det Norske Veritas Holding AS has an agreement with the consolidated accounts from 1 March 2012. The purchase price will 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 owners of the remaining 25.7 % of the shares under which be allocated to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities in Det Norske Vertias Holding AS has a call option and the remainthe N.V. KEMA Group and reflected in the 2012 accounts for DNV. The tax expense consists of: 18.9 15.0 16.2 Norwegian wealth tax 18.9 15.0 16.2 13 11.0 6.5 7.8 Norwegian income tax 106.2 31.7 43.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Income tax outside Norway 236.2 255.3 225.7 goodwill 29.9 21.5 24.0 Total tax payable 361.3 302.0 285.5 Goodwill Accum. This This Cost at depr. Reval. year’s year's Write Goodwill 0.0 (0.1) 0.3 Change in deferred tax in Norway (1.5) 25.7 83.0 company / business activity 1 Jan. 1 Jan. effects additions depr. down 31 dec. 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in deferred tax outside Norway (2.1) (29.4) 14.7 Global Energy Concepts Inc 129.9 (67.1) (1.2) 0.0 (24.9) (16.8) 19.9 0.0 (0.1) 0.3 Total change in deferred tax (3.6) (3.7) 97.7 Jardine Technology Ltd. 11.3 (5.5) 0.1 0.0 (2.2) 0.0 3.7 29.9 21.4 24.3 Tax expense 357.6 298.3 383.2 SOF Conseil SAS 15.2 (3.3) (0.1) 0.0 (3.0) 0.0 8.8 Healthcare Inc. 12.2 (8.3) 0.1 (3.7) (0.3) 0.0 0.0 (0.9) 23.0 36.1 Tax on profit at 28% 304.6 255.1 346.5 BE&W Engineering Inc 31.6 (1.6) 0.4 0.0 (6.1) 0.0 24.4 Tax effect of: Synergi Solutions AS 0.0 0.0 0.0 36.2 (4.3) 0.0 31.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Foreign tax exempt branches (18.0) (13.4) (18.6) Total 200.2 (85.8) (0.6) 32.5 (40.9) (16.8) 88.7 0.0 (1.2) 0.0 Changes to previous years’ taxes (4.5) 6.9 (3.9) 18.9 15.0 16.2 Norwegian wealth tax 17.4 15.0 16.2 Goodwill is depreciated linearly over the expected economic Due to weaker financial performance from DNV Renewables Inc. 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax assets not recognised current year 15.2 24.7 16.7 lifetime, which for these investments are evaluated at 5 years. (former Global Energy Concepts Inc.) than anticipated at the Goodwill is written down if the net present value of the future time of acquisition, the goodwill value on the balance sheet 0.0 0.0 0.0 Differences between tax rates in Norway and abroad (3.6) (4.4) (26.1) expected cash flows are not defending the values in the balance has been written down by NOK 16.8 mill in 2011. An expected 11.9 (15.4) (28.0) Permanent differences 46.5 14.4 52.4 sheet. Key assumptions in these calculations are expected growth rate of 2% and a discount rate after tax of 9.9% have 29.9 21.4 24.3 Tax expense 357.6 298.3 383.2 future growth, expected future cash flows and discount rate. been applied in the calculations. Effective tax rate 33% 33% 31% Net tax-reducing / tax-increasing temporary differences: 14 Other intangible assets Accum. This This book 0.7 0.9 1.1 Fixed assets 144.9 128.5 160.6 Cost at depr. Reval. year’s year's value Company / intangible assets 1 Jan. 1 Jan. effects additions depr. 31 dec. 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current assets (78.2) (1.9) 6.2 Norwegian Maritime Advisors – Technology 2.0 (1.4) 0.0 0.0 (0.4) 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Liabilities including pension liabilities (2 002.4) (821.6) (1 082.7) Tüv Healthcare Inc – Licence 7.6 (5.2) 0.1 (2.3) (0.2) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax loss to be carried forward 0.0 0.0 0.0 Global Energy Concepts Inc – Customer relations 20.5 (10.6) 0.0 0.0 (3.9) 6.0 0.7 0.9 1.1 Basis for deferred tax asset / liability (1 935.7) (695.0) (915.9) Synergi Solutions AS – Customer relations, Technology 0.0 0.0 0.0 11.1 (1.3) 9.8 28% 28% 28% Tax rates applied 10%-42% 10%-43% 10%-45% Total 30.1 (17.2) 0.1 8.8 (5.8) 15.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax asset (585.1) (233.3) (283.1) 0.2 0.2 0.3 Deferred tax liability 16.5 17.1 11.6 Other intangible assets are depreciated linearly over a 5 year period, based on evaluation of economic life. 12 Changes in the group structure Acquisition External revenue incl. 15 Divestments Purchase cost local in 2011 acct. company Acquired ownership currency currency NOK On 26 July 2011, DNV sold the subsidiaries DNV IT Global Services A sales gain of NOK 41 million from the transaction is included SAS (France) and DNV Cibit BV (NL) and the ITGS operations in the 2011 accounts. Synergi Solutions AS June 2011 100% NOK 58.2 37.1 in Italy, Singapore and China to Better Development SA. The acquisition cost in excess of net book value of the equity has been allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets. 62 63 notes 16 fixed assets Land, buildings and other Office equipment, fixtures 20 cash and bank deposits property and fittings Det Norske Veritas Holding AS has a cash pool system with DNB, DNV’s wholly owned subsidiary in India, DNV Business Assurance Cost at 1 January 2011 1 625.2 2 052.4 in which most of DNV’s legal entities participate. This system India Private Ltd has an agreement for an INR 250 million Revaluation effects (15.8) (2.6) includes an overdraft facility of NOK 50 million. credit facility with Citibank in India. The facility is guaranteed Additions from acquisitions in 2011 0.0 0.8 DNV’s wholly owned subsidiary in China, Det Norske Veritas by Det Norske Veritas Holding AS through a parent company Other additions in 2011 26.6 104.4 China Company Ltd has an agreement for a CNY 150 million guarantee. The facility is undrawn at year-end 2011. credit facility with Citibank in China. The facility is guaranteed Balances on bank accounts participating in cash pooling Disposals in 2011 (1.0) (12.2) by Det Norske Veritas AS through a parent company guarantee. systems are considered as internal assets or liabilities vis-à-vis Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2011 (532.0) (1 827.1) The facility is undrawn at year-end 2011. other DNV participants. For DNV on a consolidated basis, the Book value at 31 December 2011 1 103.1 315.8 Det Norske Veritas AS has a cash pool system with Handelsnet total balance of NOK 656 million with DNB and SEK 25 Depreciation 2011 30.0 119.6 banken, in which all DNV’s legal entities in Sweden participate. million with Handelsbanken are included in Cash and bank Economic life 20–100 years 3–10 years This system includes an overdraft facility of SEK 10 million. deposits in the balance sheet at 31 December. Depreciation plan Linear Linear Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS has a tenancy agreement with Det Norske Veritas Pension Fund for an office building in Stavanger. In 2011 the rent amounted to NOK 7.7 million. The tenancy Det Norske Veritas Pension Fund has an option to sell the property to Det Norske Veritas for NOK 147.0 million at the end of the period (year 2014). The market value of the property as per 21 Long-term loans agreement is nonterminable for 30 years starting in 1984. 31 December 2011 is NOK 253.2 million. In 2011, Det Norske Veritas Holding AS entered into an agreement and a restriction on DNV’s ability to dispose of main assets and with Handelsbanken, Norwegian branch of Svenska Handelsbanken principal subsidiaries. The credit agreement further requires that AB (publ). for a NOK 1 600 million multi-currency revolving credit DNV maintains a certain minimum level of equity and that net 17 long-term shareholdings facility. The facility is undrawn as per year-end 2011 and expires in December 2016. The credit agreement supporting this facility has certain covenants, including a negative pledge clause, interest bearing debt does not exceed a set level relative to total equity, both on a consolidated basis. DNV was well within all covenants at year-end. Company Ownership Book value Company Ownership Book value Ship Manoeuvring Simulator Center AS 34.6% 1.8 Kapnord Fond AS 6.0% 3.8 Vité Inc. TT Holding AS 15.1% 11.1% 0.0 0.0 CCS-DNV Technology Institute DNV Nemko Presafe AS 50.0% 50.0% 5.4 0.1 22 guarantees Marintek AS 9.0% 0.0 Blade Test Centre AS 25.0% 4.6 STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group ECA International 2.7 % 0.0 Total long-term shareholdings 15.7 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Guarantee commitments 18 0.0 0.0 0.0 not included in the accounts 75.7 49.1 49.9 Other short-term liabilities DET NORSKE VERITAS – group These guarantees are not secured by mortgage. 2011 2010 2009 Advances from customers 806.1 717.9 562.0 Accrued expenses Accrued holiday allowances Unrealised loss (gain) and interest related to forward contracts 540.4 274.5 84.3 465.5 271.6 (36.3) 450.1 287.9 32.0 23 equity Foundation Other Stiftelsen Subsidiaries of Stiftelsen dnv capital equity DNV DNV group Other short-term liabilities 81.8 57.2 56.3 Equity 31 December 2010 283.5 937.7 1 221.2 5 039.5 6 260.7 Total other short-term liabilities 1 787.0 1 476.0 1 388.3 Change in unrecognised net loss in defined benefit pension plans 2011 (917.2) (917.2) 19 Foreign currency translation (32.4) (32.4) other long-term receivables DET NORSKE VERITAS – group Gain on hedge of net investments 61.0 61.0 Tax effect from hedging of net investments 2011 2010 2009 in foreign subsidiaries (10.5) (10.5) Loans to employees 63.4 68.2 70.8 Profit (loss) for the year (33.1) (33.1) 763.2 730.1 Other long-term receivables 257.0 288.3 306.1 Equity 31 December 2011 283.5 904.6 1 188.1 4 903.6 6 091.7 Total other long-term receivables 320.4 356.4 376.9 64 65 Auditor’s report GRI content index our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, the Norwegian Accounting Act and accounting current employees and NGOs in the reported on are listed at the end of the and auditing standards and practices generally standards and practices generally accepted Americas, Europe and Asia. They also index. The financial statements are the only To the Board of Scope and boundary accepted in Norway, including International in Norway. represented all main business areas. elements of this report that have been Directors of Stiftelsen Standards on Auditing. Those standards require of the report The identification and selection of these externally assured. DNV aims to exterDet Norske Veritas that we comply with ethical requirements and key stakeholders were based on input from nally assure the Annual Report 2014 in its Report on other legal and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable senior managers’ perception of who the entirety as part of its goal of achieving regulatory requirements assurance about whether the financial statemost important stakeholder groups are. GRI Application Level A+. ments are free from material misstatement. Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report. The results indicated that the report The financial review has been prepared An audit involves performing procedures Based on our audit of the financial statements met the expectations of key stakeholders, pursuant to the Norwegian Accounting Act to obtain audit evidence about the amounts as described above, it is our opinion that the and also revealed a few opportunities and accounting standards and principles and disclosures in the financial statements. information presented in the Directors’ report for improvement, although they were generally accepted in Norway. InformaReport on the financial statements This annual report presents The procedures selected depend on the concerning the financial statements and the not totally consistent. The main point tion on the accounting principles applied We have audited the accompanying financial auditor’s judgment, including the assessment going concern assumption is consistent with DNV’s financial, social and raised by two respondents was that the to the subsidiaries is given in the notes statements of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, of the risks of material misstatement of the the financial statements and complies with environmental performance. 2008 report was perceived as both a to the financial statements. comprising the financial statements for the financial statements, whether due to fraud the law and regulations. The Global Reporting Initiative corporate brochure and an annual report. The annual report covers all of DNV’s Foundation and the Group. The financial or error. In making those risk assessments, Since 2008, DNV has addressed this by global operations and subsidiaries. (GRI) Sustainability Reporting statements for the Foundation and the Group the auditor considers internal control relevant Opinion on registration and documenfocused on producing an annual report, However, the environmental reporting comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December to the entity’s preparation and fair presentatation. Based on our audit of the financial Guidelines (GRI G3) have been which is more neutral in style and tone. is limited to all DNVPS laboratories 2011, the statements of income and cash flows tion of the financial statements in order to statements as described above, and control applied in preparing the report. This change has been noticed through and office locations with more than 40 for the year then ended and a summary of design audit procedures that are appropriate procedures we have considered necessary in In addition, DNV’s vision of a our continued efforts to increase stakeemployees. This represents 69% of all significant accounting policies and other in the circumstances, but not for the purpose accordance with the International Standard holder engagement and confirmed employees. Moreover, DNV has entered global impact for a safe and explanatory information. of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, through Questback surveys. into a few joint ventures (JVs) and partof the entity’s internal control. An audit also sustainable future is reflected In 2011, a Questback survey was carried ownership structures, such as DNV «Assurance Engagements Other than Audits The Board of Directors’ and Managing includes evaluating the appropriateness of or Reviews of Historical Financial Information», throughout the report. out among a representative selection of NEMKO Presafe and the DNV SustainDirector’s responsibility for the finanaccounting policies used and the reasonableit is our opinion that the Board of Directors employees (416 out of 1051 responded) ability Centre’s JV with the Chinese cial statements. The Board of Directors and ness of accounting estimates made by manageand Managing Director have fulfilled their The GRI content index on the following and among all external subscribers to Ministry of Health. These operations Managing Director are responsible for the ment, as well as evaluating the overall presenduty to ensure that the Foundation’s accountpages shows where you can find inforthe annual report 2010 (74 out of 431 cover fewer than 30 people in total and preparation and fair presentation of these tation of the financial statements. ing information is properly recorded and mation on the main reporting elements responded). All the survey results indihave no impact on our overall reporting financial statements in accordance with the We believe that the audit evidence we have documented as required by law and generally and indicators of the GRI and UN Global cated that the respective reports met and JVs and part ownership structures Norwegian Accounting Act and accounting obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide accepted bookkeeping practice in Norway. Compact for sustainability reporting. the expectations of key stakeholders. are only included in the notes of the standards and practices generally accepted a basis for our audit opinion on the financial References are also made to information The latest survey also showed that some financial statements (note 16). in Norway, and for such internal control as statements for the Foundation and the Group. Oslo, 19 April 2012 that can be found on the www.dnv.com of the opportunities for improvement There were no changes to the orgathe Board of Directors and Managing Director ERNST & YOUNG AS website. revealed in the 2008 survey had been nisation in 2011 that have altered the determine is necessary to enable the prepaOpinion. In our opinion, the financial stateThe selection and prioritisation of successfully addressed in the 2010 report. report’s boundaries or scope. Also, there ration of financial statements that are free ments of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas have Finn Ole Edstrøm reporting parameters are based on a It is our ambition to continue to increase is no reason for re-statements in the report. from material misstatement, whether due been prepared in accordance with laws and State Authorised Public materiality assessment conducted in stakeholder engagement going forward The new group structure involving three to fraud or error. regulations and present fairly, in all material Accountant (Norway) 2009 –2010 and surveys of key stakewith biannual structured stakeholder separate companies that is mentioned in respects, the financial position of the Foundaholders concerning reporting preferences feedback on our sustainability reporting. the report came into effect on 1 March Auditor’s responsibility. Our responsibility tion and the Group as of 31 December 2011 conducted in 2008 and 2011. Furthermore, DNV is continuing to 2012 so consequent changes to the is to express an opinion on these financial and their financial performance and cash flows Note: This translation from Norwegian The materiality assessment was perextend the report’s scope and boundaries boundaries and scope will be reported statements based on our audit. We conducted for the year then ended in accordance with has been made for information purposes only. formed using a risk-based approach and as indicated by our commitment to achievin the 2012 Annual Report. revealed the following six areas as being ing GRI Application Level A+ by 2014. In DNV has not identified any nonmaterial for our business: business conduct; 2011, DNV’s own experienced consultants compliance with regulations and corruption; products and services; marketand verifiers of other companies’ sustainvoluntary codes in 2011 place; working conditions; recruitment ability reports conducted a gap analysis and retention. These were closely followed of DNV’s 2010 report and have proposed Application Level by labour relations and diversity. Worka roadmap for reaching A+ by 2014. Following an internal assessment of shops were held in five locations worldThis annual report also takes into account this report by DNV’s own experienced wide using our protocol for CR assessour UN Global Compact reporting commitsustainability report verifiers against Subscription: You can Feedback: Please let us This report is printed on paper N O RD IC E C O L A B EL ments, and the results were consistent ments and our Communication of Progress the GRI Application Level criteria, we subscribe to printed copies know your views or comments from responsible sources. The across all locations. is integrated into the GRI content index. are confident that this report meets the of the report and other on this report by email to paper is FSC and RA certified. 241 148 The survey of key stakeholders in 2008 The number of indicators reported on requirements for Level B. This ApplicaPR DNV publications on dnv.corporate@dnv.com IN T ER The printer holds a Nordic Swan ED MATT involved 11 semi-structured interviews has increased since 2010 as a result of tion Level has been checked by the GRI. www.dnv.com / resources / or write to us at and a FSC certificate. with people representing customers, a continuous focus on transparency in The annual financial statements have publications DNV, Corporate potential customers, potential employees, reporting. The indicators that are not been audited by Ernst & Young. Communications, NO-1322 Høvik, Norway. Published by: Idea and design: F A S E T T Photos: Page 3: DNV and Getty Paper: Artic Volume (130 / 200g) Corporate Communication, Infographics: F A S E T T Images. Board of Directors: Johs Bøe. Circulation: 20,000 Print: Grøset Det Norske Veritas AS Cover and intro pages: Arild Editor: Per Busk Christiansen Danielsen (portraits and artwork), DNV and Statoil / Kjetil Alsvik (background images). 66 GRI content index Strategy and Profile Environmental Social Economic Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Performance Indicators 1.1 3.5 3.11, 3.13 4.8 Disclosures on management approach Labour practices Human rights Disclosures on management approach GC9 CEO statement about the Scope and boundary Internally developed page 8, 40-43 Disclosures on management approach Disclosures on management approach page 4, 6-11, 50-54 relevance of substainability of report statements of mission dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / wedo page 10, 39 page 10 worldwide presence map to the organisation and its 3.5 page 67 or values, codes of dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / she dnv.com / moreondnv / people dnv.com / moreondnv / people / strategy 3.6 page 67 conduct, and principles dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / she employee_management_ EC1 page 6-7 3.7 page 67 dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / EN3-EN4 relations.asp Direct economic value 3.8 page 67 business_ethics / index.asp UNGC8 Energy consumption LA1 dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / generated and distributed 1.2 3.9 page 41 EN3 page 40-41 (partial) Total workforce by employbusiness_ethics / index.asp page 4, 51, 57-59 Description of key impacts, 3.10 page 67 4.10 EN4 page 40-41 (partial) ment type, employment risks and opportunities 3.11 page 67 Processes for evaluating contract and region UNGC2 HR2 UNGC7 EC2 page 8-10 3.13 page 10, 67 highest governance EN5-EN7 page 10, 39 Human rights screening of Financial implications and body’s own performance Energy efficiency initiatives worldwide presence map suppliers and contractors other risks and opportunities 2.1 2.10 3.12 principles EN5 page 40-41 (partial) Page 36 (partial) for the organisation’s activities Organisational profile Table identifying the dnv.com / moreondnv / UNGC9 EN6 page 8-11, 42 UNGC6 LA2 due to climate change 2.1 page 2, back cover location of the Standard profile / governing_bodies / UNGC9 EN7 page 10, 41-43 Total number and rate of HR3 page 8-9 2.2 page 5 Disclosures in the report board_directors.asp UNGC8 employee turnover by age Employee training on human 2.3 page 13 this table UNGC9 group, gender and region rights policies and procedures EC3 2.4 worldwide presence map 4.11 4.13 EN16 page 39 Page 36-37 (partial) Coverage of the organisation’s page 40 4.1 4.4 Principles, initiatives and Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions defined benefit plan obligations 2.5 IFC Governance, Commitassociations supported by weight LA3 UNGC1 HR4 page 56, 59 2.6 page 2, 9-10 ments and Engagement by DNV page 41 Benefits provided UNGC6 Total number of incidents 2.7 worldwide presence map 4.1 page 13 4.11 throughout the report to full-time employees of discrimination UNGC6 EC7 2.8 page 5, 9-10, 13, IFC dnv.com / moreondnv / dnv.com / moreondnv / EN17 page 39 Page 37 Procedures for local hiring and 2.9 page 8, 10 profile / governing_ profile Other indirect GHG emissions proportion of senior management 2.10 page 19, 33 bodies/ 4.12 page 33, 37 by weight UNGC1 LA4 UNGC2 HR5 hired from the local community 4.2 page 13 dnv.com / moreondnv / page 42 (partial) UNGC3 Percentage of employees UNGC3 Operations identified in which page 10, 39 (partial) 3.1 dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / collaboration covered by collective the right to exercise freedom of dnv.com / moreondnv / people / Reporting period profile / governing_ 4.13 page 37 EN18 bargaining agreement association and collective bargaindiversity_opportunity.asp 1 Jan to 31 Dec 2011 bodies / board_ dnv.com / moreondnv / UNGC7 Initiatives for reducing page 39 ing may be at significant risk directors.asp profile / committees UNGC9 GHG emissions dnv.com / moreondnv / people / Product responsibility 3.2 4.3 page 11 page 41-43 UNGC1 LA7 employee_management_ Disclosure on management approach Date of most recent dnv.com / moreondnv / 4.14 4.17 Rates of injury, occupational relations.asp page 7, 8-11, 18-19 previous report people / employee_ List of stakeholder groups EN22 diseases, lost days and absenpage 10 management_ engaged by the organisation Total weight of waste by teeism, and number of workSociety PR2 relations.asp and key topics raised type and disposal method related fatalities by region Disclosures on management approach Total number of incidents of 3.3 4.4 page 10 4.14 page 36, 67 page 42-43 page 45-46 page 7, 36 non-compliance with regulations Reporting cycle dnv.com / moreondnv / 4.15 page 67 dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / and voluntary codes concerning page 67 (annual) profile / governing_ 4.16 page 37, 67 LA8 business_ethics / index.asp health and safety impacts of bodies/ 4.17 page 67 Education, training, counseling, products and services during their 3.4 dnv.com / moreondnv / prevention, and risk-control UNGC10 SO2 life cycle, by type of outcomes Contact point for people / employee_ programs Business units analyzed for page 67 questions regarding management_ page 44-46 (partial) risks related to corruption the report or its contents relations.asp page 36 (partial) PR4 back cover LA10 Total number of incidents of 4.5 4.7, 4.9 Average hours of training UNGC10 SO3 non-compliance with regulations Governance, Commitper year per employee Percentage of employees trained and voluntary codes concerning ments and Engagement page 39 in organisation’s anti-corruption product and service information – procedures and processes policies and procedures and labelling, by type of outcomes 4.5 dnv.com / moreondnv / LA11 page 36 page 67 profile / governing_ Programs for skills managebodies / board_ ment and lifelong learning SO4 PR5 directors.asp page 38 (partial) Actions taken in response Practices related to customer 4.6 page 10 to incidents of corruption satisfaction, including results 4.7 dnv.com / moreondnv / LA12 page 36-37 of surveys measuring customer profile / governing_ Performance and career satisfaction bodies / election_ development reviews UNGC1 SO5 page 37 committee.asp page 38-39 UNGC6 Public policy positions and 4.9 dnv.com / moreondnv / UNGC10 participation in public policy List of indicators not reported: profile / governing_ UNGC1 LA13 development and lobbying Profile disclosures bodies / board_ UNGC6 Composition of governance page 7, 9, 37 3.9, 4.5, 4.9 EC4-9 directors.asp bodies and diversity EN1, EN2, EN8-EN15, EN19, breakdown of employees SO8 EN21, EN23-EN26, EN28, EN30 page 10, 39 (partial) Monetary value of significant LA5, LA6, LA9 HR1, HR6-HR9 worldwide presence cover fines and total number of SO6-SO7 non-monetary sanctions for PR3 UNGC6 LA14 non-compliance with laws Ratio of basic salary of men and regulations G3 disclosures to women page 67 GC = UN Global Compact reference page 38-39 Page / comment Det Norske Veritas AS Corporate Communications NO-1363 Høvik, Norway Tel: +47 67 57 99 00 Fax: +47 67 57 99 11 www.dnv.com
