R R Kabel Ltd. Communication on Progress 2012 RRKL/COP/2012 Statement of Continued Support R R Kabel Ltd. is committed to align its operations and strategies with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Program. The company considers human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption as significant and key areas for long term sustenance and progress. During the last year we have had an active involvement of our employees (Ram Ratna’ites) in several welfare initiatives for the community. Concern for environment resulted in company seeking Energy Management System certification – ISO 50001:2011. We continue to support the Global Compact by following the ten principles in letter and spirit. In every activity – manufacturing, nonmanufacturing, employee and social welfare, we will continually evolve strategies which accentuate the commitment in each of the four domains. Mahendra Kabra Executive Director 1st September 2012 RRKL/COP/2012 R R Kabel supports the ten principles of the UNGC Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RRKL/COP/2012 Human Rights The guiding principles:  Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. R R Kabel Ltd. upholds the dignity of every individual and respects the basic rights. The company believes that social sustainability is possible only when people have the freedom to decide and act. Human rights in the areas of work, safety, education, food, water, privacy are basic to individuals. Company has polices which support the best practices in Human Rights. It does not discriminate people on the basis of caste, colour or creed. Equal employment opportunities are given to women. In fact, the company encourages employees’ spouses to seek meaningful employment in the organization. We believe that a happy employee means a happy family. Employee welfare measures include financial and non financial measures. The company involves women and children in various activities.  Family members regularly participate in the monthly quiz  Important days like Safety Day, World Environment Day, World Earth Day, Engineers Day, World Standards Day are celebrated with events being held for employees, women folk and children. These initiatives result in building a network of extended family. The company has reached to the community in several ways. During the year it has organized religious and medical events for the public. RRKL/COP/2012 Medical camp organized at Baroda and Silvassa has benefitted more than 1200 needy people. Blood Donation Camp organized along with Indian Red Cross Society saw more than 200 units of blood being collected. The company is in no way complicit with human rights abuses, whether direct, beneficial or silent. Labour Rights The guiding principles:  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and  Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation R R Kabel Ltd. has a free and fair policy for employee communication, suggestion or grievance. Irrespective of the level or the hierarchy, the employees have an easy approach and access to the top management on any subject. Employees have an effective say in all matters that concern them. They are represented in various committees and are responsibly involved in these. Child labour is absolutely prohibited. Posters conveying this message are put up at key locations. The foremost requirement for seeking employment is verification of age. Human resource department permits an individual to qualify for an interview only when it is ascertained that an individual is more than 18 years old. RRKL/COP/2012 Company has policies on prevention of forced labour and nondiscrimination. These are effectively implemented. The company is committed to value addition in its employees. Concerted efforts are taking to continually educate and train the employees. Environment The guiding principles:  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company has a serious approach and concern for environment preservation. During the year, it has achieved certification under ISO 50001:2011. This achievement is laudable on two counts: 1. RR Kabel Ltd. is amongst very few companies to achieve this certification. 2. The employee focus has changed significantly, resulting in energy saving at work and at home. Tree plantation has been carried out extensively throughout the year. Under the Environment Management System (EMS) the company has set challenging objectives, targets and programs. Creating awareness on environment related issues has been crucial to our success in meeting up with the challenges of environment preservation. RRKL/COP/2012 Anti Corruption The guiding principle:  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Three important values – ETHICS, INTEGRITY and TRANSPARENCY drive the company to do business and deal with all stakeholders. Code of conduct for employees and auditors espouses highest moral values. Misuse of power and position, acceptance and giving of gifts are objected and viewed seriously. RRKL/COP/2012
