COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Company: UNIMASTERS LOGISTICS PLC Country: BULGARIA Sector: TRANSPORT & LOGISTICS Reporting Period: 2011 Introduction All members of the Global Compact are required to issue an annual Communication on Progress (COP), a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, and in supporting broad UN development goals. Unimasters Logistics has endorsed the Global Compact Principles in 2003 to officially state its commitment regarding human rights, working conditions, environment and corruption. Since 2006, the company has released its Communication on Progress annually. From 2007 on, the Board of Unimasters Logistics decided to actively share its COP with its stakeholders: the COP is published on the company website so that its suppliers, customers, shareholders and other stakeholders, as well as employees, get to know it. The present report describes our activities in key areas and explains the measures that we have taken in the period August 2011August 2012 to integrate environmental and corporate responsibility into all aspects of our business. For additional information, please visit http://www.unimasters.com Statement of Continued Support Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to re-affirm our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which represent a solid foundation for building safer, healthier and more sustainable world. Our continuous strife to be more lean and efficient has borne fruits in the past year too. Ongoing optimisation of processes, accompanied by series of steps towards sustainability as well as constant development of our employees’ skills are the key areas of our management focus. We look forward to reporting in the future on our further big steps to help our society and our planet. Yours sincerely, Nikolai Bozhilov Executive Chairman HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business must ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment: Health & Safety Policy Implementation: Respecting human rights in the aspect of corporate responsibility means to avoid any infringement of the human rights of others, and address any adverse impact on the human rights with which the business is involved. The corporate commitment to support human rights calls for voluntary actions to advance human rights, whether through core business activities, strategic social investments and philanthropy, advocacy and public policy engagement, and working in partnership and other collective action. We believe that the corporate responsibility to support, respect and protect human rights, not only the minimum stated in the internationally recognised bills and conventions, but even more, applies fully and equally to all companies regardless of size, sector, ownership. As set in our 2010-2015 Strategy, Unimasters’ ambition is to become “Employer Of Choice in Logistics” in all the countries where we have employment relationships. This applies to wages and general care for all our employees. In our offices and working points we provide safe, healthy and pleasant working environment. Through annual and ad-hoc working conditions risk assessment (last assessment done three months ago) and early employee education and training, the appropriate precautionary measures are taken to protect employees from working hazards and dangers. In June-August 2012 all our employees underwent educational training in “Safety in the Office”, in order to react swiftly and mitigate injuries and losses in case of fire or natural disaster. It is explicitly stated in our updated Code of Business Ethics that employees are Unimasters’ most precious assets. Amongst our company’s highest priorities are its commitments to the respect for human rights; fair and open recruitment practices; equal opportunities and no discrimination on racial or ethnic grounds; investment in training and career development; a safe, healthy and attractive work environment; performance-related pay and promotion on merit; regular appraisal and counselling; communication and proper consultative procedures and balance between business and personal life. Being a socially responsible employer, Unimasters Logistics takes care of the needs of vulnerable categories – pregnant women, mothers of children aged under 2, handicapped people. Pregnant women and mothers are given the choice of flexible working time. In the reported period, 30% of the women in these categories have had flexible working time. During 2011-August 2012, Unimasters Logistics provided opportunities for training of 11 young people who had just finished their university education, of which 30% remained permanently employed by the company after completing their training periods. We can proudly declare that during our more than 22-year company history there has been no incident related to human rights abuse or labor standards non-compliance. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP is our new company policy for greener and safer PLANET. Environmental Policy Implementation: Being a responsible player on the logistics market in Central & Eastern Europe we are aiming at reducing the adverse impact on the environment from our transport activities. As stated in our Strategy Plan for 2010-2015, one of our ambitions is to become a Green Logistics Service Provider, continuously working on the reduction of the carbon footprint in all our operations. During the reported period we continue to replace our fleet with new Euro 5 trucks, our goal being to have 100% EURO 5 and 6-compliant fleet till the end of the year. All vehicles acquired for the services provided to LAFARGE in Romania, mentioned in our previous COP, are EURO 5 compliant and are the safest trucks in the world. In the recent months we have also implemented a central transport management control tower, which greatly reduced empty running of our own and managed trucks thus further reducing company’s carbon print. We also continue our initiative for waste separation for further recycling. Our offices are equipped with properly marked recycle bins pointing the type of waste. We have succeeded to decrease our printing activities by more than 50% through intelligent data capture, including OCR and ICR solutions, which is a big step towards reducing paper in the office. Our plan to implement e-invoicing in all our branches and subsidiaries is in a full swing and it is expected to make substantial impact on the quantities of printing paper used. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment: Code of Business Ethics; Corporate Compliance Policy Implementation: Our Code of Business Ethics as well as the Corporate Compliance Policy of Unimasters Logistics specifically addresses bribery and corruption. Bribery or other improper payments have no place in any company’s business. All employees who come into contact with government officials – domestic and foreign – must maintain the highest professional standards. Never offering anything of value to such officials to obtain a particular result for the company. The same standards should govern all employees’ contacts with those in the private sector. Entertainment to business prospects must be reasonable and documented carefully. Unimasters Logistics provides employees with access to all the necessary information, resources and counsel to prevent violations of the laws (domestic and international) or company regulations. Every supervisor must organise their area of responsibility so as to ensure adherence to company rules and applicable law and thus to this Compliance Policy. All employees are required to immediately report any violations of the Compliance Policy and Code of Business Ethics. Internal auditors audit the effectiveness of these two documents at regular intervals.
