2012 TIMA UN Global Compact 1. INTRODUCTION TIMA GmbH is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a platform for encouraging and promoting good Communication on Progress (CoP) 2011 corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. After having joined the GC in 2006, this fifth TIMA Communication on Progress (CoP) is covering our activities in 2011. We have thus far communicated our efforts and achievements in different areas of our website, and would hereby like to call your attention to these areas according to the structure suggested by the Communication on Progress (CoP) Guidelines.  See: http://www.tima-gmbh.eu 2. LETTER OF SUPPORT TIMA International is committed to the international principles of the UN Global Compact. Our company works for and with enterprises that need to successfully meet the challenges of the market caused by globalization. TIMA develops new business models, organizes international clustering and trans-corporate processes for sustainable value creation and prosperity. TIMA International has developed an initial UN GC business model, the TIMA UN Global Compact Cluster Business Model that ensures profit generation, sustainability, and an increasing corporate value through prosperity sharing within the framework of the UN Global Compact. Through transparent TIMA International GmbH 1. INTRODUCTION TIMA GmbH is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. After having joined the GC in 2006, this fifth TIMA Communication on Progress (CoP) is covering our activities in 2011. We have thus far communicated our efforts and achievements in different areas of our website, and would hereby like to call your attention to these areas according to the structure suggested by the Communication on Progress (CoP) Guidelines.  See: http://www.tima-gmbh.eu 2. LETTER OF SUPPORT TIMA International is committed to the international principles of the UN Global Compact. Our company works for and with enterprises that need to successfully meet the challenges of the market caused by globalization. TIMA develops new business models, organizes international clustering and trans-corporate processes for sustainable value creation and prosperity. TIMA International has developed an initial UN GC business model, the TIMA UN Global Compact Cluster Business Model that ensures profit generation, sustainability, and an increasing corporate value through prosperity sharing within the framework of the UN Global Compact. Through transparent cluster management with process responsibility for the development and management of worldwide value chains, our business model lowers risks, raises the value of the company and its image. In 2010, TIMA launched the Low Carbon Company Core Business Model based on shared prosperity in JV / PPP with profitable sustainability. In 2011, TIMA launched the Self-Sustainability Business Model for PPP and the Trusted Partnership for Peoples’ Health Security, both based on trans-corporate process responsibility structures with high impacts on performance, fast skill exchange and measurable process responsibility especially needed in the emerging markets. Our initial 2004 activity for the UN Global Compact was to lead a medium size company with about 3 300 employees into the UN GC and serving as UN GC coordinator in a trilateral project between the corporate sector, the public sector and the United Nations University. The project for improving women’s maternal and reproductive health in India was successfully concluded in 2009, with TIMA taking the lead role in providing full time management and editorial personnel force to the finalization of the book and Research Brief: Partnerships for Women’s Health: Striving for Best Practice within the UN Global Compact. The volume, published by United Nations University Press, was launched at the UN in New York on International Women’s Day in March 2010. -2In 2011, our pacific welfare economy business model gained most interest, because the emerging new world was fostering their regional developments through strategies and processes such as ASEAN PlusConnectivity; first regional steps were made to decouple participating countries from occurring global volatility in financial, governmental, economic and ecological risks by increasing awareness in grievance management. Taking up the momentum of such regional and global changes in 2011, TIMA International developed new large scale company core business models and policy approaches with self-sustainability. They were displayed, for instance, at the agriculture business initiative in Malaysia 2011 for food security in herbs and business models for high-end contract farming. Our UN GC based business model for profitable sustainability integrated process responsibility of C4C, as well as B4B in/for climate development with the CEO Water mandate and security was broadened to Trusted Partnership PPP Model to open mitigation and adaptation by up scaling the capital market financing. With our approach of measuring and managing the impacts of energy mix and efficiency, emissions, water, health, food, living, housing, education within internal and external diversity and grievance communication we achieved better security in full industrial cycles and self-sustainable effects.. The economic revitalization in Germany also prompted us to further step up our efforts to proliferate our UN GC values through developing Quattro “A” responsive business models. Our strategy for transformation and integration within the private sector of UN global development, the Multinational Enterprises, large governmental organizations and many SMEs in multinational supply chains in the Quattro “A” Strategy for capital market partners, focus on achieving outperformance by decoupling social and climate risks from permanent growth in all entrepreneurial activities, be that in manufacturing, trade, provider services or services for industrial value generation and develop it with German experience for the new pacific welfare economy approaches for peoples security in large scale. Finally, at the Global Business leader Summit in Ney York, USA, TIMA introduced its new strategies and offered a PPP-model for Asia-Pacific regional issues addressing the question on how to finance the mitigation and adaptation process through capital incentives with attractive returns on investments. Our continuous exchange with our business partners is being firmly engrained in our corporate policy, and the code of conduct for TIMA partners which is available on our website serves as a model for others. To serve within the UN Global Compact – and support the principles it sets forth – is thus an indispensable component of the future we all want defined and promulgated by our expert personnel from all different sectors. Dr. Achim Georg Deja CEO of TIMA GmbH International -33. PRACTICAL ACTIONS AND MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES FOR THE 10 PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact (UN GC) is a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The GC asks companies to embrace, support and enact 10 principles of conduct within their sphere of influence. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Principle 3 collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from:  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights  The International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development  The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Find out more on the UN Global Compact at: http://www.unglobalcompact.org -43.1 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS (PRINCIPLES 1-6) Progress Respect for human rights and fair labor standards have always been part of the corporate culture that TIMA GmbH lives on a day to day basis. This is formally reflected in our Business Guidelines. Those guidelines are mandatory for all our employees and business partners. We seek to promote these values in our sphere of influence. Through participating in the process of defining and developing standards within the ISEAL in 2010 and 2011, we have been able to offer such guidelines to our clients in JVs, thus ensuring best of communication in our Quattro “A” on managing climate risks in value chains. A specific role in Trusted Partnerships has our measurable process responsibility for self-sustainability. In conclusion, TIMA International has aimed at and will further strengthen the UN Global Compact’s own credibility by economic core business models including Human Rights Standards. It was the start of a new approach on structural integration of transparency and accountability with the economy of affordability and inclusiveness. TIMA had integrated for the first time, a business approach /model into a client’s project harmonizing efficiency and profitability with UN GC integrity and ethics. In all steps the Ten Principles and integrity rules were embedded, applied and realized in measurable form based on voluntary commitments. Learning from such health care project, TIMA used its knowledge and experience when exploring common business rules for a German-Malaysian JV and PPP for Industrial Services and TIC Business resulting in an MOU in April 2010 in Malaysia and an MOU in August for an International Skill Academy for welding process security or for a Agro Business Bio-Technology JV resulting in an MOU in November 2011 on dried herbs for food, natural medicine and extracted herbal material on cosmetics. Another international project MOU for designing a large scale strategy of a health logistics PPP in Vietnam was started in December 2011, including self-assessment on human rights, strict adherence to best international standards, ethics and integrity with all group of stakeholders. In 2010, the CEO of TIMA signed the UN GC Women’s Empowerment Principles. Thus, TIMA joined the circle of top executives of the UN GC in their commitments to advance gender equality and agreeing to use the principles as guidance for business actions to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. As first project, TIMA launched 2011 a project for better security of women in company initiated mobility or events. The project was launched with a partner on social dynamic ride-sharing services and envisions three years development to go to market. The project is to serve our clients as well as TIMA personnel. A second vital issue, bringing more women into decision-making positions in processes of implementing best-ofthe-class-multi-diversity-management with equal standards being vital for the benefit and sustainable development and success for any company, has been pushed forward within TIMA as well as in our projects with our clients. Since 2011 the TIMA PPP Business Models for the pacific welfare economy enforced the support and respect to protection of international proclaimed Human rights standard for measurable improvements in self sustainability, to foster self-learning diversity structures. -53.2 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS (PRINCIPLES 7-9) Progress Throughout 2011, TIMA was actively supporting UN Secretary General Ban – Ki Moon’s special appeal “Support UN Relief Efforts in Haiti and the UN Climate Change Conference: Business and Investors’ Support of Global Agreements” promoting the upcoming UNGC Lead perception and the Corporate Sector Sustainability Forum of UNGC by:  Publicizing TIMA’s strategic view on “One Asia – One World” business model for emerging markets that aims at offering energy for all based on an economic approach for sustainability structures (Save our planet strategy – SEA);  Launching the vibrant Pacific Welfare Economy Business Model, empowering companies to skill transfer, up scaling in Asia-Pacific, managing high quality structures, affordable pricing for consumers with self-sustainability and permanent socio-economic growth with measurable best performance;  Building TIMA Trusted Partnership Process for Special Services in Global Issues by joining forces with Trucost and Six Sigma for new Joint Venture and PPP solutions for supply chain security in emerging markets;  Developing TIMA Peoples´ Health Security through PPP. In 2011, TIMA International GmbH, as signatory of the Caring for Climate Initiative, participated in the signatories’ meetings and in the leadership meeting in New York, 24-25 June. TIMA cooperated with the UN Platform and with the UN Global Compact to contribute to LEAD and industrial security in business approaches on infrastructure in Asia. Within TIMA, we have:  Built up an individual approach for European Asian joint business in India and Malaysia;  Finished the affordability business model for MOP (Middle income groups) for Pacific Welfare Economy;  continued our campaign against unsolicited advertising faxes in order to reduce unnecessary paper consumption and CO2 by modernized technology and smart communication;  prepared the first LOI for testing – Social Dynamic Ride Sharing for TIMA events and clients’ mobility;  Renewed our office technology and processes by shifting to energy saving technical equipment and procedures. -63.3 ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLE 10): Progress TIMA takes a firm stand against corruption. Mandatory guidelines for all our employees, especially our Code of Conduct Guidelines, are very specific on this subject. We have made such guidelines available on our website. In 2011, we communicated with the UNGC Anti-Corruption Working Group on the guidelines for Anti-Corruption and cases of best practice that may serve as examples for e-governance in TIMA Quattro “A” strategy for low carbon companies and TIMA Pacific Welfare economy PPPs in ongoing projects. TIMA also participated in the meeting of the Anti-Corruption Working Group and promotes ICMM guidelines and Transparency International Guidelines -7-
