Sustainable Communities Report 2011 Community life Security and urban design Health Education Basic services Green areas, public spaces Transport and urban image Supply of products Employment Housing and services casasgeo.com 01 800 227 2436 Sustainable Communities Report 2011 Contents About our report 3 Company profile 7 Economic performance 25 Social performance 31 Environmental performance 57 GRI Contents 78 2 Welcome message About Our Report 3 For over 38 years, Casas GEO has been a company comThis is the second Report by Sustainable Communities by Cormitted to the responsible development of Mexico by providing poración GEO SAB de CV and its subsidiaries. Previously there quality homes to thousands of Mexicans. have been five reports of Social Responsibility, and this is the second consecutive year that we have applied the G3 Global Dreaming about a better Mexico, Casas GEO has over ten Reporting Initiative (GRI) as part of our integration towards susyears conducting a study to determine exactly what people tainable management consistently with international standards. expect when buying a house. That’s how we discovered that, although most people only have an opportunity to buy a house Also, this document is in compliance with the requirements of in their whole life, in the short term they expect to get a bigger the Sustainability Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange and and a better one. And the only way to achieve this is by increawith the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 Principles. sing the value of their current home. The conclusion was overwhelming. All our policies were headed for generating a quality of life and surplus value in our dweThis annual report presents the results from January 1st to December llings, creating a sense of responsibility between GEO and the inhabitants of our developments. Only this combination makes 31st, 2011. During this period, we reaffirm our commitment to the it possible to generate added value. This is the challenge that development of Sustainable Communities. we decided to meet. In the last decade we redefined our vision to focus on the evoWithin the reporting period there were some organizational lution of social housing, assuming a public commitment to imchanges, which are listed under the chapter “Company Profile”. prove the quality of life for Mexican families. In this report we reflect the results of our strategy towards the The information was generated through the identification of key For Casas GEO, sustainable development has taken a great recreation of sustainable communities, enabling us to ensure we users and the systematization of indicators, and was collected levance. We are aware that the challenge of our industry in the are on the right track. We are confident that we have the best by the areas of Sustainability, Organizational Development and next 10 years is to provide housing to 30 million Mexicans. If we team of partners to ensure the sustainability that allows us to Corporate Design with data provided by our business units, as built houses in the past, now we must develop concepts of life. generate wealth at economic, social and environmental levels. well as by the appropriate corporate areas. Our challenge is to build cities and communities with their own This report presents the preliminary results of the Sustainability identity and with the best quality, achieving greater efficiency Assessment Housing, a study prepared under the supervision throughout our value chain through residential densification of the Mario Molina Center and funded by the leading housand the preservation of natural resources. ing institutions in Mexico, in which Casas GEO took part. This study will give us more precise indicators about the social and As an indicator of our vision toward sustainability, Casas GEO environmental fields, which will facilitate the compliance with fulfilled the conditions and guidelines required to join the Susthe principles of accuracy, comparability and completeness of tainable IPC Index on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV). the information provided, ensuring the transparency of our acOnly 23 companies are part of the Index because they achietions consistently with our commitment as a Socially Responved a score on competitive policies and sustainable systems sible Company. on 3 main areas: Environmental Responsibility, Social Responsibility and Corporate Government. The Sustainable Communities 2011 Second Report by Here we proudly present our Sustainable Communities Second Casas GEO has a B Self Declared application level. Report developed under the guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), wherein we reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 principles as part of our comMr. Luis Orvananos Lascurain mitment towards sustainable and transparent development. Chairman of the Board and CEO of Corporacion GEO SAB de CV Sustainable Communities Report 2011 Sustainable Communities Report 2011 4 Scope, structure and material nature 5 The contents of this report was defined in terms of our stakeholders with whom we have established several communication channels to ensure a direct dialogue in order to know their expectations and interests This report presents the results of Corporacion GEO SAB de As part of the methodology for determining the information CV and its subsidiaries on matters of social responsibility and contained in this report and its material nature, our stakeholders sustainability. compared the results obtained with the strategic objectives of Casas GEO, through our channels of communication. Lastly, we We present an overview of the company, its history, crossed the GRI indicators with the requirements of Sustainability strategy, culture, corporate governance, as well as its ethical IPC Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange. commitment and relationship with the stakeholders. The data analysis resulted in four relevant issues for our The contents of this report was defined in terms of our stakeholders: stakeholders with whom we have established several communication channels to ensure a direct dialogue in order • Economic Impact to know their expectations and interests. • Value and benefits for GEO employees • Energy use Some of the means by which we communicate with our • Water use stakeholders are: The actions undertaken in these matters, as well as the results • Organizational Environment Survey for Employees; obtained are informed throughout the report. • Customer Satisfaction Survey; At the end of the document a reference chart is included, • Suppliers Feedback Program. showing the location of each GRI indicator within the report for • Online survey of our Sustainable Communities Report an easier reading. 2010 http://sostenible.casasgeo.com/r/s • Focus groups with employees in the areas involved with the sustainable management of the company. • Note: For detailed and further information in relation to investments in subsidiaries and trusts under control, refer to our Annual Report available on the Investor Relations website http:// www.corporaciongeo.com/Archivos/Informes/Anual/Informe_Anual_2011.pdf Sustainable Communities Report 2011 Sustainable Communities Report 2011 1 We are “We are the best place to live” the best place to live Company Profile 8 Casas GEO, transcendent ideals and culture of values 9 Corporación GEO S.A.B. de CV is the leading Mission: developer of social interest housing in Mexico and Latin Become leaders in creating Quality of Life and Surplus America concerning Sustainable Communities. value, with profitability for our customers and partners. With more than 38 years of experience and presence In GEO, daily work increases the expectations; we are a in 22 states in the Republic, GEO has built over 600,000 company focused on wealth creation. Under this convichouses for more than 2, 200,000 Mexicans. tion, and as part of an alignment process, in 2011 this commitment was incorporated into the group’s vision For Casas GEO, its mission, vision and values are the aimed to 2015: principles that drive, motivate and commit the company. A philosophy implemented by all GEO employees who believe it, experience it and make it a reality. Vision 2015: Being the leading group in the generation of wealth in +38 the economic, social and environmental levels, revolutionizing social housing in sustainable communities: 1. Providing welfare satisfiers TO MEET CUSTOMER NEEDS throughout their lives. years of experience 2. Creating a model of world class practices. 3. Training GEO-partners as leaders within the GEO Culture. 600,000 houses GEO values: built Essential pillars that support and keep us alive: I. Partner A leader in his field, team player, is institutional, passionate, honest, his attitude is customer-oriented and has social responsibility. II. Product Offer our customers the best place to live in sustainable communities with the highest quality. 22 2, 200,000 III. Service Ensure customer satisfaction at all levels of Mexicans benefited contact with the organization, which was the customer’s first choice. IV. Profitability Maximizing the value of the company in the economic, social and environmental fields. States of Mexico V. Compliance Provide the result committed in a timely manner, proper cost, and quality. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile 10 Our GEOgraphic presence Live in the best place 11 Casas GEO’s operations are grouped into 6 regions posiWe cover 22 states in Mexico tioned within the most dynamic cities in the country, covering (at the end of 2011). At GEO we are engaged in all activities related to land acquisition, about 80% of the population. design, construction, marketing, sales, delivery of dwelling and creation of community life within the neighborhood organization, In 2011, Casas GEO began operations in the states of with a view to form a healthy social fabric in our communities Aguascalientes, Sonora and Tabasco. Business Community Life Product Comercial Quality Planning (After Sales Service) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Planning Investment Terrain PaperDesign Production Contracts Deed Collection Neighborhood Professional work Organization Management 10 Percentage of units deeded in the traditional and afSatisfactors fordable housing segments Casas GEO, the best place to live: Aguascalientes Baja California Chiapas 70 % 78 % 81.8 % Planning and transport services Coahuila Distrito Federal Durango Guanajuato Guerrero Hidalgo Jalisco 2009 2010 2011 12 14 México Morelos Nayarit Nuevo León Our strategy for multi dwelling units is directed towards the Financial Resources: Resources to finance working capital Material Resources: Infrastructure (systems, offices, etc.). base of the pyramid, ie the lower income population 1. Oaxaca Puebla Querétaro Sinaloa Sonora Tabasco Tamaulipas Veracruz 13 15 Demand trend base of the pyramid Human Resources: Organizational structure and human resources needed Legal Resources Further information, visit: 1 Economic sector, traditional low and traditional socioeconomic level D, D + and C www.casasgeo.com / www.corporaciongeo.com Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile 12 Our history Sustainability strategy 13 38 years, 5 generations of great achievements. Following the strategy of creating Sustainable Communities Casas GEO established the Sustainability Coordination in Social sustainability: 1973 1983 Creating a winning company 2010, within the functional structure of the company. We work in community development programs to strength• Architect Luis Orvananos Lascurain Casas founded GEO in The Sustainability Coordination analyzes possible gaps and aren social structures and networks that allow us to help 1973, along with a group of partners and collaborators who eas of opportunity based on the identification of risks related communities to become independent and self-sufficient. were committed with high ideals. to our performance in sustainable development and social responsibility. We report directly to the highest levels of the • In 1976, GEO wins its first National Award in Housing. company through the Attached DGs for the definition of action plans and measurement indicators for various projects related. Economic sustainability: 1984 1994 Specialization As a complement, and in order to ensure the implementation We create sustainable housing by generating efficiencies • GEO becomes a promoter and developer of social housing of sustainability criteria in the development of all company acacross all the processes in the value chain. and grows in its national coverage. tivities, Casas GEO has an area of Engineering and Sustainable Design establishes the principles and tools for creating Thus, we optimize resources and keep our strategy of provid• GEO begins operations in Jalisco, Guerrero, Querétaro, Morelos, functional designs conceived for the people, that guarantee our ing surplus to increase home values over time. Reynosa, Baja California, Tamaulipas, and Morelos. customers a human structure and heritage, and spaces, sustainable and inclusive. • In 1989 GEO became Casas GEO. And since 1994 its shares are quoted on the Mexican Stock Exchange under the symbol GeoB. As a complement, and in order to ensure the implementation Environmental sustainability: of sustainability criteria in the development of all the company activities, Casas GEO has an area of Engineering and SustainWe develop communities, taking into account environmental 1995 2000 Growth able Design that establishes the principles and tools for creattechnologies, energy saving systems, thermal insulation, waing functional designs conceived for the people. This guaranter saving equipment and solar water heaters. • It strengthens the strategy of expansion, growing in Laguna, tees our customers a human and property structure, as well as Puebla, Monterrey, Oaxaca and Veracruz. sustainable and inclusive areas. • In 2005, Casas GEO joined the European market through Casas GEO has implemented different projects under the the index LATIBEX under the symbol XGEO, becoming the first scheme of Sustainable Communities: Mexican Housing Corporation to achieve it. 2001 2009 Strengthening and market making • GEO redefines its mission to focus on the bottom of the pyramid, through the Quality of Life and Surplus for customers and partners. • Casas GEO has become the largest and most innovative company in the social housing market. 2010 Creación de Comunidades Sostenibles • In 2010, Casas GEO evolves toward sustainability from the perspective of creating the best place in communities that offer all the welfare benefits without compromising the future generations in the economic, social and environmental fields. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile 14 GEO strategy Formula for the development of Sustainable Communities Strategic objectives 15 We have implemented a strategic map, which In recent years, sustainable development has taken a great identifies our 5 key objectives. importance in the political, economic and social development worldwide. In simple terms, this development depends on the natural resources available, using them in a responsible way without jeopardizing their future existence. It is also a response to population growth and climate change. 3 The housing industry is in a transition phase towards sustainability, this represents an opportunity for Casas GEO to trigger 4 3. GEO + Plus: economic growth and to counter social exclusion in our country, by strengthening a long-term growth consistent with the 2 Generate further efficiencies to give the customer more, with a better house, industry and strengthen the liquidity and short-term financial more equipment and therefore better quality of life. balance. Simplify, standardize and innovate processes through advanced technological Committed with the implementation of world-class method5 platforms: 1 ological practices, we move into a model denominated GEO strategy which is based on the method of performance manThe main objective of the GEOstrategy, agement business known as Balanced Scorecard (BSC). whose immediate future points towards Oracle, PeopleSoft, Hyperion and Siebel 2015, is the generation of wealth in the economic, social and environmental fields. 1. GEO Culture: 4. Being number 1 in all places: Culture GEO is the greatest strength of the Group, for its basis are the . Being number 1 in overall customer satisfaction. fulfillment and experience of our mission, vision and values, as well as in the attitudes that all our collaborators must have to be GEO leaders GEO. . Being number 1 in profitability. . Maintain the leadership in the sector. 2. The Best Place to Live: 5. Meet the budget: Thinking in our customers, we offer a sustainable community that covers Deliver everything with attitude to ensure the outcome: fulfill goals, satall welfare needs without compromising the economy, social affairs and isfy the customer. the environment of the future generations. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile 16 Stakeholders 17 In Casas GEO we identify our stakeholders based on the GRI methodology. We take into account their exClients: pectations, and consider them a crucial issue within our management; therefore, we group them as follows: They are the future inhabitants of our communities. In GEO we reinvent ourselves every day with plans and actions towards the continued development of our products and services, aimed Investors: at human results and business improvements that lead more families to favor us with their choice. The group brings value, reliability and transparency to each of our business activities. They believe in our ideals and full conSuppliers and contractors: fidence in them. They are our business partners, those with whom we seek GEO Partners: long-term relationships with a win-win approach, driving growth and improving their business, sharing with them our ethical vaThe most important group we have to fulfill our goals. lues and sustainable management methodology. Through their support and participation, we implement our strategies and actions in an environment of respect and enGovernment institutions and unions: terprise security. Regulatory agencies, state owned entities, housing institutions, Communities chambers or associations in the category of construction and all those who directly or indirectly are involved in the creation of • GEO Community: Are the current inhabitants of our desustainable communities in the country. velopments who, by their choice, compel us to generate the best practices, working every day to provide an estaNGOs and health, social, environmental and edute that generates Quality of Life with Surplus. cational institutions: • External Community: They are the inhabitants of the Civil society groups that, like us, seek to provide dignified houcommunities surrounding and close to our operations; sing and improve the quality of life of those who have least. we care to offer them more services and infrastructure through our activities. We understand their needs and expectations and we seek to maintain a permanent dialogue and make them part of our social activities through inclusive programs. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile For more information regarding our Board of Directors please visit our website: 18 Corporate Government Board of Directors 19 14 Owner Counselors A corporate governance system in continuous strengthening The Board is integrated by 14 Owner Counselors, 7 of which regulates Casas GEO. This system interacts with the Board of The survey about the level of compliance with the are independent and hold sessions four times a year. Directors, Shareholders and Society Managment. Code of Best Corporate Practices sent to the BMV and the For further details about our operating structure, please follow this link: CNBV is available on our Investor Relations page: The Audit Committees and the Corporate Practices, fully http://www.corporaciongeo.com/organigrama.aspx?menu=2&submenu=17&lenguaje = http://www.corporaciongeo.com/Archivos/Practicas/C%c3%b3digo%20de%20 staffed by Independent Counselors, get together at least every Mejores%20Pr%c3%a1cticas%20Corporativas%202010.pdf three months. Corporación GEO, S.A.B. de CV is one of the leading Mexican organizations in implementing best corporate governance Through the General Meetings of Shareholders, they submit practices. Since 1999, Corporación GEO began the implementheir recommendations to the highest governance body. tation of the Code of Best Corporate Practices suggested by the Mexican Stock Exchange and the National Banking and 7 Independent Among the resolutions adopted by the Annual General MeetSecurities Commission. The Board of Directors of Corporacion Geo SAB de CV relies ing of Shareholders of Corporacion GEO, SAB de CV held on on two committees for the fulfillment of its audit and monitoring functions: March 30, 2011, Architect Luis Orvananos Lascurain was ratiSome guidelines that emphasize the application of these practices are: 2010 201150% fied by as Chairman of the Board and CEO of the Company. Independent Audit Committee Corporate Practices Committee Independent • Communication and Information Disclosure Policy, that Counselors Counselors For the main resolutions adopted by the Annual General Meetpromotes transparency in the administration, issuance ing of Shareholders, please visit our Investor Relations site: and responsible disclosure of information to shareholdComposed solely by independent Counselors http://www.corporaciongeo.com/asambleas.aspx?menu=2&submenu=12&lenguaje= ers and the market in general. All Counselor members are owners, there The Board of Directors was formed in accordance with the provisions of are no substitute Counselors. • Corporación GEO, S.A.B. de CV has a single series of Articles 24 and 26 of the Securities Market Act. The members are selected shares one share, one vote. During the fiscal year 2011, the Board of Directors held the based on their experience, ability and professional reputation, ensuring that correspondent number of sessions stipulated by the Securithey can perform their duties free of conflicts of interest and without being • First company in Mexico to implement the Shareholder ties Market Act, and met legally in accordance with the quosubject to personal, patrimonial or economic interests. Rights Program (Tag Along Rights), in order to protect rum required by the bylaws and the General Law of Mercantile For more information regarding our Board of Directors please visit the rights of minority shareholders. Societies. our website: http://www.corporaciongeo.com/Archivos/Asambleas/ProThe Annual General Meeting of Shareholders rates the quality, capacity puesta%20de%20Consejeros%202011.pdf and experience of each Counselor, in accordance with the proposed composition of the Board and the CVs of the candidates, which the Company publishes on the website early enough to the conclusion of the meeting. In 2011, Casas GEO did not record significant non-monetary fines or penalties for noncompliance with the laws and regulations, nor with situations of corruption, unfair competition, discrimination or violation of human rights. Shareholders, partners and other stakeholders have access to company information through the Web site of Investor Relations, which is available at: www.corporaciongeo.com and at the site of the Mexican Stock Exchange, www. bmv.com.mx. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile 20 To be, to do and to live ethically Classification of reports received 21 In 2011, 87 out of 97 cases were resolved. The rest are in the process of a resolution. Casas GEO has a Code of Ethics and Conduct, which sets ethi• It prohibits any discrimination against any partner or In addition, as one of our practices against corruption, we cal standards that guide the behavior of all GEO partners and applicant because of his/her race, religion, nationality, have an Internal Audit Department to ensure an ethical commembers in government bodies with which it interacts, as well sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status or disabilities. pliance in all the group’s operations. Its role is independent as the consequences for noncompliance. from the Corporación GEO Management and it performs its According to the annual Auditing program approved by • It prevents conflict of interests and transactions with responsibilities at any time with impartiality and objectivity. the Audit Committee, and together with the strategic plan For our Code of Ethics and Conduct, please visit our werelated parties, in accordance with article 28 of the SeIn 2011, we began the certification process of all the partof the General Management, 18 companies in the Group, bsite: http://www.corporaciongeo.com/archivos/Código% 20of% 20the% 20Ética% curities Market Act, section III subsection b. ners within the Internal Audit Area, such as CIA (Certified as well as their trusts, were audited in 2011. This repre20Conducta.pdf Internal Auditor), through The Institute of Internal Auditors sents 85% ($ 18.064 million pesos) of the consolidated • It guarantees timely and accurate information, with (IIA) with support from Pricewaterhouse Coopers as contotal income ($ 21.163 million pesos). Our guiding code, our behavior in the communities where we transparency and confidentiality. sultants. operate and the relationship with our partners, customers, suppliers and shareholders, are based on the application of It also provides measures to prevent unfair competition, mohigh ethical standards in the development of assigned responnopolistic practices and measures to ensure free competition. sibilities, acting against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. The code is subject to periodic reviews making it available for members of government bodies and GEO partners for suggesType 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 We contemplate publishing a compliance program for all the tions and updates to ensure its effectiveness and continuous Improvements to the company 4 7 12 90 2 incoming GEO partners, as well as its diffusion through an onimprovement. Suggestions Protection of company assets 2 1 10 5 going campaign on the internal communication media. Total 6 8 22 95 2 The Code of Conduct operates through the system of suggesIn 2011, the code was endorsed by all partners and was retions, complaints and denunciations, which is 24/7 anonymous leased to 98% of our new members. and confidential service with voice mail. Its follow-up is the responsibility of the Ethics Committee, which is the body responWithin the ethical standards of our code there are: sible for coordinating research, analysis and response of the cases presented Type 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Honest and upright behavior; Power abuse and mistreatment 13 22 48 26 57 Noncompliance of a regulation 23 29 51 28 10 • Strict neutrality in politics and religion matters. Hotline: 54805084 Complaints Care and customer service 20 2 21 3 45 2 11 1 15 3 Outside Mexico City: 018000438422 Payments to suppliers and contractors geoetica@casasgeo.com Total 58 75 146 66 85 Type 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Honesty Allegations Falsification of documents 4 5 Integrity Sexual harassment Robbery and theft of company property 7 7 3 2 Neutrality Allegations (not relevant) Our code and Actions that deteriorate or cause a prejudice to the assets of the company 34 14 6 8 ethical standards Inclusion (not relevant). 11 39 21 9 10 Total Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile 22 Working together for Mexico 23 In Casas GEO we generate and agree with federal initiatives on housing development. The picture that positions the housing sector as a basis for urSustainable Transport Center ban growth and poverty reduction, has led the public policies to promote housing development, as well as to give support to In 2011, Casas GEO and the Sustainable Transport Center the industry. (CTS), worked together on the design of a pilot based on DOTS methodology (Sustainable Transport Oriented Development), Association of Companies for Energy Conservation in to improve non-motorized mobility, protect the pedestrian and Buildings AC (AEAEE). make public transport more efficient. As a result, we were able to increase the width of sidewalks, improve pedestrian safety The Association seeks to work with government agencies and at intersections, enhance quality public spaces, and build bike private enterprises established in Mexico, to participate in relanes and safer pedestrian paths. ducing the greenhouse effect gases, in sustainable development and ensuring the supply of energy. United Nations Global Compact GEO took part in the pilot project “Zero Energy Housing”. This We reaffirm our commitment to the Global Compact, and its 10 concept refers to energy efficient residential buildings that principles already incorporated into this report as part of our reached a “zero balance” between the energy consumed from Communication on Progress, according to the cross-reference the power grid and the energy generated by renewable sourcAt Federal level, the National Housing Commission (CONAVI) table between them and the GRI indicators. es, for a whole year. is the authority responsible for promoting, coordinating, encouraging and implementing the Federal Government National We work to promote responsible citizenship, respect for human Housing Programme and its policies. In 2011, this institution rights and working conditions, to the environment and the pracestablished new rules for granting subsidies for vertical houstices against corruption, ensuring that the business is part of ing developments. the solution for the challenges of globalization. Casas GEO is the housing developer that exercises the largSustainable Housing and Environment est number of CONAVI’s federal subsidies, which has allowed us to elevate our goals oriented to the construction of vertical CONAVI, SHF, INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, Casas GEO, URBI developments, in compliance with the new housing policies. SADASI, ARA and VINTE formed the Association for Sustainable Housing and Environment led by Dr. Mario Molina and his The vertical housing allows us to better utilize the land, as it team, who are experts in the subject of climate change. This increases the capacity of our territorial reservation, and it fapartnership aims to achieve a united response from the houscilitates the location of best land in less time. It also reduces ing sector to the challenges of climate change. We work within travel costs, and generates savings in the maintenance of the the framework of an inclusive group, which shares a vision to infrastructure; improves the public space and the access to sermake the right decisions and address the environmental, ecovices. nomic and social sustainability in housing policy for the benefit The Alliance for Climate Protection of the population that lives in dwelling units. In summary, the adoption of CONAVI’s public policy for subsiCiudades 8-80 dies and vertical housing has had a very positive effect both for It is an NGO headed by the Nobel Peace Prize (2007) and forThe role the association plays in contributing to sustainable iniGEO and for the beneficiaries. mer U.S. Vice President, Mr. Al Gore. On November 15, 2010, GEO signed a collaboration agreetiatives in the sector is to generate and validate the baselines to ment with Guillermo Penalosa, President of Ciudades 8-80 to: be taken into account as a starting point for the implementation We create alliances and achieve internationIn 2010, Casas GEO signed a collaboration agreement with of projects and the quantification of emissions avoided. al standards The Alliance for Climate Protection to participate in joint ac· Encourage community participation in the context of sustivities to develop strategies to reduce the negative effects of tainable communities. To achieve our goal of sustainable communities, we work with global warming, as well as to create a work program that would national and international institutions that have wide experilead to the creation of Sustainable Communities on GEO de· Define the design criteria for the development of our Susence and reputation in the matter, such as: velopments. tainable Communities Code GEO+Más Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile 2 Together “Together we make a more profitable business” We make a more profitable business Economic performance 26 Together we make a more profitable business Main financial results 27 According to projections made by the World Bank, it is to This year, the housing industry went through a transition phase 2010 2011 be expected that by 2050 the global population will grow to 9 towards sustainable growth by addressing an uncertain global billion people, 75% of whom will live in cities. economy and significant policy changes in the major economic Houses sold (units) 56, 093 57,865 leaders in the world. Income 19,154.4 21,163.0 For the next 20 years, Mexico estimates a housing backwardness of 20.2 million for the next 20 years. Gross Profit 6,013.7 6,675.7 Operating Profit 2,994.8 3,425.9 We are aware that the housing industry is one of the main enEBITDA 4,202.4 4,738.8 gines of development for the country, with a direct impact that 2011 was an opportunity to keep growing and Income before Taxes 2,245.8 2,421.6 affects 37 industries and generates about 2 million jobs. demonstrate our leadership on the development Net Income 1,414.5 1,437.0 of social housing: Cash and temporary investments 2,228.4 2,721.2 Accounts Receivable to Sales 5.6% 12.7% The challenge is to build cities and • We delivered 57.865 deeded houses. Inventory turnover (days) * 604 676 communities through a strategy to ensure Accounts receivable turnover (days) 21 46 economic sustainability. • Deeds recorded an increase of 3.2% compared to 2010. Provider turnover (days) 116 131 Operating Cycle (Days) 510 591 The construction of dwellings and commercial and industrial • Revenues increased 10.5% compared to 2010, Leverage (capital liabilities) (times) 2.2 2.6 buildings generates approximately 3.7% of GDP, which translaamounting to $ 21.163 billion during the year. Net Debt 6,971.8 11,085.0 tes into a trigger for the economic growth that counteracts the social marginalization in our country. Net Debt / EBITDA (times) 1.7 2.3 Interest Coverage 2.7 2.6 Outstanding shares at end of year (millions) 549.4 549.4 Territorial Reserve (units) 387,904 365,221 • In millions of pesos, except where noted. 2010 figures adjusted for comparison purposes. NOTE: For more detail on our financial results and our consolidated financial statements 2011, please consult our Annual Report available on the of the Internet, Investor Relations. (http://www.corporaciongeo.com/Archivos/Informes/Anual/Informe_Anual_2011.pdf) Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile 28 Main financial results Strategic alliances (Joint ventures) 29 The houses sold through mortgages granted by INFONAVIT The total units concentrated in the lower income segments We have established alliances with strategic partners, en(Institute of National Housing Fund for Workers) and FO(economic, traditional low and traditional) was 81.8% comabling us to increase our capacity of planning, benefit from VISSSTE (Housing Fund of the Security and Social Services pared with 78.5% in 2010. scale economies and have the opportunity to diversify into In 2011, Casas GEO’s land banking was Institute for the Estate Workers) accounted for 91% of the new businesses. Further, we ensure the acquisition of land for equivalent to 365.221 homes, which is suffitotal credits for GEO by December 2011, placing us again These indicators reflect our social strategy towards housing our developments in the medium and long term. as a leader industry in the amount of houses deeded to both at the base of the pyramid. cient for 4.5 years of production considering institutions. We are currently associated with Prudential Investment Mana constant annual growth in units. agement and Sólida Administradora de Portafolios, SA de CV, working in investment programs for development in various Average prices of our products for each segment in 2011 were: building projects benefited from a trust. Economic The existing land banking allows us to maintain sufficient flexibility for the development of vertical and horizontal housing, in line with the policies of subsidy allocation. $ 220,403 pesos Traditional low $ 262,527 pesos Traditional plus $ 365,248 pesos Traditional plus $ 591,370 pesos Media $ 910,982 pesos Residential $ 1,574,642 pesos Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Company Profile 3 Together “Together we are better; Everyone for YOU, together for GEO” we are better Social performance Everyone for you, together for GEO 32 Together we are better; Everyone for You, Together for GEO 33 A GEO-leader is who through his attitudes, lives and gives life to the Culture GEO, consciously committed to the mission, vision and values of the company. Being a GEO-LEADER is part As part of our social commitment, we undertake actions of the DNA of all our partners. Always surpassing the expectathat generate wealth and welfare to our groups, establishing tions, we join forces for a better Mexico. ties of collaboration and shared commitment. Fulfillment 1. GEO Partners 2. Customers Teamwork Austerity Environmental and Entrepreneur social awareness Fun Commit to the customer 3. Community 4. Suppliers and contractors Distribution of administrative technical staff 405 Corporativo 459 Bajío Centro 2,774 Noreste 801 1. GEO Partners Noroeste 832 With more than 38 years, we know that the sum of each of our Poniente 1,474 GEO partners symbolizes the image and prestige of GEO. We know that our people are the most important value for the acSur 1,663 complishment of our goals. SINERGEO 2,015 In GEO, all partners are leaders who share characteristics that identify them and link them as part of a great dream. At the end of 2011, we have: 10,423 technical administrative partners. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 34 Labor offer for administrative staff Satisfiers of Labour Welfare 35 At the end of 2011, our task force consisted of 14.517 labor partners under the scheme of weekly payroll. 2009 We know that in the hands of each of the GEO leaders is to Our labor offer for site personnel depends on the number ac5,312 follow changing lives in a sustainable, accessible, timely and tive projects we are developing, so the permanence of emexcellent service. Therefore, in GEO our promise is to provide ployees is directly dependent on the state and phases of our 2,307 Quality of Life and Surplus to our partners resulting in an enviprojects. Employees are hired by work in accordance and ronment of respect, safety, stimulation, and professional develcompliance with the current legislation. 7,619 opment consistent with the culture of the company. Due to the above, the number of employees in work presents 2010 To do this, we have a series of policies and procedures decyclic variations, so that GEO does not offer any of its employ6,668 signed to ensure a positive and win-win relationship with our ees a minimum period of notification prior to organizational workforce, always looking for their development, health and changes. 2,881 safety. In GEO there is no difference between the basic salary of men 9,549 with regard to women. Also the professional standards we use are general for all, and anyone can apply depending on the job profile. 2011 7,250 We measure and monitor 10 Satisfiers of Labour Welfare, which ensure the development and productivity of our employees within the framework 3,173 of values and the Code of Ethics and Conduct of the company. • We have increased by 40% the 10,423 participation of women in relation to 2009. • 16% of our management positions are Total occupied by women. Men Women partners We value the expertise and diversity of our GEO partners. Thus, Partners over age 50 we incorporate workers over 50 years old in all areas of the company, resulting in an atmosphere of knowledge and wisdom. 1,028 945 698 2009 2010 2011 • We have increased by 43% the participation Partners over age 50 of employees over 50 years old. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 36 I. Health and safety: 37 Main activities of our Quality of Life in Building Work Program 2011: • Quality of Life in Building Work: In order to improve the conditions and quality of life of our workers on site, in 2005 we began a program that allows concrete Health and Safety Commission assigned actions to reflect very detailed and measurable benefits within our building works. We have institutionalized the project of 1 to each of our developments under construction. Quality of Life in Building Work and created a policy that allows us to manage resources to keep a positive impact in the costbenefit indicators. 160 health and safety courses In Casas GEO we undertake precise actions aimed to our partners in the building works; we 80 courses for the use of protective equipment are committed with those who day by day build the homes that we offer to our customers. 210 vaccination campaigns 395 preventive talks 8,904 medical examinations applied 47 medical services in our developments 69 dining on site Rate of quality of life in building work 1 weight reduction ongoing program 91% 91% With these efforts, we influence our more than 14,962 labor partners, managing to control and reduce our risk premium, 88% the rate of absenteeism and accidents at work. The benefits of this program will result not only in the health and safety of workAs a result, we have created some jobs nationwide, allowing us ers, but also in the welfare of their families. to ensure better conditions for the GEO partners who serve as health and safety coordinators, physicians and nurses in each of our building works. The initial challenge was focused on improving the equipment Rate of absenteeism. and offering special ergonomic work tools for each of the activities of our key personnel on site, as well as training courses for employees. 2009 2010 2011 2010 0.152 In 2011we maintained the quality of life in 0.148 2011 the building work. The absenteeism rate was reduced in 2011. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 38 II. Personal and professional respect III. Sustainable environment 39 The working environment in Casas GEO, is characterized by a We create programs for the responsible use of office supplies, total respect for and among our partners. In our Code of Conespecially to reduce paper use, water and electricity relying on duct and Ethics the principles and values that guide the action internal communication campaigns. inside and outside the company are embodied. The code includes standards that ensure respect for human rights of minorities, the rejection of forced labor and child labor, Number of campaigns nationwide for the efficient use as well as nondiscrimination. of supplies, paper and electricity Any employee who detects a failure of these standards may 16 report it through the system for suggestions, complaints and allegations that operates 24/7. 10 We recognize the importance of the institutions that promote social dialogue and collective mediation schemes, and also the right of our employees to negotiate collectively in the workplace, so we respect their freedom of association. • In 2011, we had 5.339 (35%) partners affiliated with a labor union. 2010 2011 Among the formal agreements set forth in our collective agreeMaterials recycling and reuse campaigns ments with unions, the following matters relating to health and safety of our employees labor stand out: 11 10 • GEO is committed to provide all its workers safety equipment required according to the activity of each one of them, as well as the tools necessary for the proper performance of the work to be done, however they are responsible for the good use and conservation of such tools and equipment. • In all matters relating to risks and illnesses, we comply with the provisions of Federal Labour laws and Social Security; the2010 2011 refore, GEO is committed to affiliate each one of its employees at the Mexican Social Security Institute. In 2011: In GEO we respect the provisions relating to the minimum age, as it is specified in the law and national labor legislation, which 1. We managed to collect more than 1,000 kg is why we have a policy of not hiring children (under 18 years). of PET. In 2011, we started a new project to recover, donate or properly In 2011 we had 24 partners over 60 years who received their 2. National and permanent campaign for dispose of the computer and / or tech equipment mitigating its retirement printing on both sides of the sheet. environmental impact. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 40 IV. Stimulating work environment V. Sense of transcendence 41 Casas GEO participates on strengthening local organizations To fulfill our #1 strategic goal, “Culture GEO”, periodically we that represent the legitimate interests of the community through carry out different institutional events that highlight our values, public actions that help to reduce social inequality and build history and way of life. social, natural and human capital We develop an annual program of social, integration, cultural and sports activities involving our partners and their families, promoting a good working environment, a sense of belonging During 2011, we work in the following programs in partnerand teamwork. ship with the local authorities: With the support of Zumpango’s Municipal Government, State of Mexico, we are working on the following projects: 1. Deportivo Buenavista benefits more than 30,000 young and children athletes. Donations 2011: Over $ 3,877,283 in public assistance institutions and civil associations: 2. Domo Plaza benefits 200,000 people and has a capacity for 550 spectators. Cruz Roja Mexicana I. A. P. DIF Estatal Querétaro 3. Estadio Nuevo Paseos de San Juan has a capacity for 1,400 people. Unión de Minusválidos de Querétaro I.A.P. Our institutional events and their objectives are: Fundación Roberto Ruiz Obregón, A.C. 4. Zumpango Industrial Zone Fundación Josefa Vergara y Hernández, I.A.P., Macro events: El Alma Nos Habla, A.C. Present strategic initiatives and indicators, as well as regional projects and goals for the year in a forum for communication, We also contribute financially with the authorities in implementFundación Comunitaria Morelense, I.A.P., training, integration and motivation. ing non-partisan activities or programs of general interest or Consejo de Hombres de Negocios A.C. Impacts on 8.000 GEO partners welfare. Fundación GEO A.C. Quarterly informative breakfasts: Establish events and actions on a regional basis suited to their needs and characteristics to ensure compliance with the objectives aligned to the GEO strategy and institutionalism. Impacts on 3.000 GEO partners Quarterly challenges: Family and sports events 2011: VI. Performance Evaluation in compliance with GEO strategy Strengthening focus, implementing the strategy and their objectives with the direct participation of GEO partners, as well as recognize those who have served with passion and commitMother’s Day ment to the end of period. We celebrate 1,200 GEO moms. Impacts on 8.000 GEO partners Children’s Day We celebrate 3,800 GEO children. Annual Convention: As part of the development strategy of our staff, 100% of our Recognize the GEO Heroes from all areas of the company, strengthening their integration, performance and motivation in We participate in 51 sports tournaments with 3,000 GEO partners undergo a performance review annually. an atmosphere of fun, learning and respect focused on GEO partners Culture and GEO Strategy. During 2011 we worked on developing a new methodology Impacts on 1.000 GEO partners to conduct our performance evaluation, in accordance with our 5 strategic objectives based on specific indicators, such Santa Cruz (May 3): as the profitability generated by each partner. Celebrate with our building work staff in an environment of For the fourth time, Casas GEO team wins the respect and fun based on our traditions, acknowledging their commitment and willingness to build the best place for our cusTelevisa Cup 2011, at the monumental Estadio In 2012, we started implementing this new performance evaltomers. Impacts on 15.750 GEO partners Azteca. uation system to determine the fulfillment of the GEO partners, and thus establish the salary increases. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 42 VII. Belonging and pride IX. Training and professional development 43 We have systems and human, technical and managerial traiWe support the individual and professional growth and deveIn order to promote a sense of identification with GEO, as well ning programs that strengthen the competencies and effectivelopment of our GEO Leaders. In 2011 we grant 62 scholarsas creating a link with the culture, achievements and challenges ness related to a career and life plans. hips for postgraduate studies, specialization and upgrading, of the company, we continue with the publication of our instituin order to strengthen their skills to benefit their performance. tional GEO News Bulletin of national diffusion (with weekly and In 2011, our partners received a total of 240,463 bimonthly issues) to strengthen the channels and the transmisman-hours in training courses, an average of 2011 was an important year for training, as we successfully sion of our messages to the entire Republic. This also helps us 22.9 hours per partner. implement Phase I of the new Human Resources Planning to generate a commitment and enthusiasm to be part of GEO. System. This allows us to improve, make more efficient, stanWe are committed to the eradication of illiteracy and educatiodardize and control the administrative and internal services nal backwardness, so we work actively with the National Institufor our GEO partners. • Bimonthly national GEO News Bulletin: te for Adult Education (INEA). Through the National Council of 6 editions Education for Life and Work (CONEVyT) GEO Jalisco received By standardizing policies and procedures of the Human Dea recognition as a company committed to the education of its velopment area, we achieved greater control over operating • Weekly GEO News Bulletin: 52 editions workers. costs. With this first phase, we standardize the payroll, commissions, organizational structure and personnel management processes. We have also implemented the regional GEO News Bulletins in order to strengthen the sense of belonging to each of our 6 In 2011, 160 partners registered for the GEO/INEA eduBy 2012, we will launch Phase II that includes modules for reregions.con el objetivo de fortalecer el sentido de pertenencia cation program. cruitment and selection, job profiles, training, compensation, de cada una de nuestras 6 regiones. performance evaluation, labor relations and health and safety. We have implemented a training model on site, through a technical training program addressed to our operation, in which the courses are taught under the model “learning producing” wheVIII. Competitive compensation re learning times are distributed in an 80/20 practice -theory. En 2011: 1,016 partners received 5 Currently we have Technical Schools at Building Work promotions and / or grading (ECTOS), from which more than 500 partners have been graduated. 4,146 partners obtained an increment for their performance. In terms of profits, we provide all the benefits prescribed by law Any GEO partner (administrative staff and workers) is entitled We work together with the Amafore (Mexican Association of X. Estabilidad laboral to paid leave vacations, as well as a holiday bonus for each year Afores) in an internal campaign for the promotion and dissemiof service completed in GEO; both will be paid in accordance nation of a financial culture for retirement savings, in order to and with the provisions of the Federal Labor. sensitize all our partners about the importance of planning and We work to create the conditions for work continuity based on saving for the future. the growth of the organization, and in the achievement of reThe Christmas bonus corresponds to 15 days for personal sults and self improvement. work and business advisers, and 30 days for administrative staff per year worked, or their correspondent share if they did not Unwanted labor turnover rate work for the whole 12 months. Additionally we have a major medical expenses insurance for 2010 12.59% administrative staff, whose coverage extends to the employee, spouse and children under 25 years of age. They also have a life insurance. 2011 10.47% This year we recognized 760 partners for their more than 5 We ensure our partners competitive compensation and beneyears old seniority, 50 of which have more than 20 years workfits in comparison with the market and the industry. It reduced our turnover rate in a 2.12%. ing in the company. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 44 2. Guarantees care: Thus we seek to be better 45 In 2011, we applied 65,454 customer surveys at diThrough our Quality of Community fferent stages of the process after the sale, to find out their We work to offer the Best Place to Live Life Policy, we ensure the integration Quarterly we generate an indicator called Surplus and level of satisfaction Sustainable Quality of Life Index (IPLUCAVIS), which allows us of satisfiers within our communities. The commitment to our customers means constant innovation to measure each of our business units with a focus on creating The surveys that we applied are focused on the evaluation of and development of actions to ensure a better product that gesustainable communities. nerates a surplus over time. quality, service and punctuality on the following processes: The methodology of this indicator includes the following areas Through 10 categories, we have identified the Welfare Satisof measurement: fiers that aligned with our strategic objectives, let us know and Induction Talk fulfill the needs of the customers who live in the communities • Evaluation of Welfare Satisfiers. we develop. • Measuring the level of customer satisfaction. Once the house is deeded, we make sure that our customers During 2011, our IPLUCAVIS reached a national average of are aware of all the conditions (rights, obligations, benefits, 81.3 as compared to the 81.1 of 2010. constraints) they have when buying a home subjected to the 1. Organization of community life and urban design 6. Green areas and public spaces condominium property regime, and/or in compliance with the Only by knowing the opinion of our customers, their preferences, internal bylaw of the dwelling unit. what satisfies them and what they do not like, it is possible to Create a community by strengthening the social Create public spaces, safe, accessible, inclusive and build a business based on the client. In 2011, we surveyed 23.629 clients during this process, with and urban fabric, which promotes the organization highly functional to promote community integration the following results: and community life. and healthy lifestyles. Induction Talks 7. Supply of services Average 2. Dwelling April May June July August Sept Oct Nov Dec Provide supply and basic services centers accessible Provide a habitat that provides privacy, security to all consumers, designed for those customers Average* 9.14 8.90 8.84 8.89 8.91 8.89 8.94 8.99 8.94 and comfort by optimizing the material resources interested in acquiring them, favoring the local ecoand processes developed within a framework of nomy and promoting a self-sufficient community. Surveys* 3,076 3,161 1,755 1,754 3,057 3,630 3,374 3,822 23,629 sustainability and satisfaction. * Rating range from 1 to 10 89.6% of customers rated with 9 and 10, which are the only allowable ranges. 2012 target is to reduce the percentage of clients ineligible rating ranges from 10.4% to 5% 3. Basic services 8. Health Provide basic infrastructure and equipment, always Ensure a health center in the community, equipping Housing delivery complying with the environmental legislation. it according to the characteristics and needs of the community. This procedure is to ensure that all our clients receive, by the date promised, a product of excellent quality, both in the housing, including water and electricity services, as in urbanization (common areas), making the housing delivery a special and 4. Transport 9. Employment significant day, based on an emotional and meaningful event for our customers. Create a sustainable community that enhances a Provide connectivity to employment sources, both system of physical and emotional connections that inside and outside the community. privilege pedestrian and cyclist. Housing delivery In 2011, 25.292 customers were surveyed at Average the time of delivery of their homes, with the April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec following results: 5. Safety 10. Education Grand total 9.20 9.36 9.30 9.31 9.28 9.36 9.33 9.54 9.34 • 94.7% of customers rated with 9 and 10. Provide the basic conditions of urban and social Ensure a daycare center, kindergartens, elementary • The goal is to reduce the percentage of clients ranging ineliSurveys 3,390 3,267 1,726 1,879 3,150 4,154 3,793 3,933 25,292 infrastructure, to minimize the risks and threats to schools, high schools and community centers, acgible ratings, from 5.3% to 3%. physical integrity and property. cessible to all. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 46 Guarantees care: Incidents of non-compliance, or customer dissatisfaction reported Making a comparison between the number of complaints from 47 by PROFECO (Federal Consumer Protection). 2010 through 2011, we report the following: Through our process of guarantees care reports, we provide proWhen a client presents a report of damage to his home, as long as fessional attention to any damage that may appear in the homes the warranty covers it, we will apply a survey after the conclusion Reporte de PROFECO 2011 2010 401 we deliver. of the repairs. 364 Reduction of 9.2% 2011 This allows us to take detailed statistics on the incidence of damaIn 2011, 5.528 surveys were applied with the following results: ge to find appropriate solutions and gradually lessen their impact. 14.83 % Another tool to measure our performance is Credited Satisfaction Index (ISA). Guarantees care 33.84 % New homebuyers grant this grade to the developer/builder April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Average 23.57 % who sold them the house, and it is obtained from randomly telephone surveys applied among INFONAVIT accredited peoGrand total 9.23 9.38 9.37 9.38 9.50 9.45 9.60 9.46 9.42 ple who have purchased and live in a new home. 27.76 % Surveys 402 672 532 546 862 948 772 794 5,528 The index measures the level of satisfaction that residents have applied for their homes, for the housing development, for the attention and service we provided, as well as for the relationship betReimbursement/Refund Policy 92.8% of customers rated with 9 and 10, which are the only allowable ranges. ween the price paid and the value received. Guarantees / Hidden defects The goal in 2012 is to reduce the percentage of clients ranging ineligible rating, from 7.2% to 5%. Delay in delivery of housing Other The higher the ISA, most satisfied are those who bought at the rated company. The maximum obtainable score is 100 points. Customer satisfaction with his home: The highest percentage projected in the graph responds to reimbursements/refunds. At this particular point, the problem In 2011 got a score of 79.39, a point above that obtained in is that once the customer issues his advance payment he may 2010 (78.39). Every three months, through the “call center” Linea GEO, we In 2011, we surveyed 10.605 customers. In the following tachange his mind and consequently apply for a refund. conduct a survey to our customers who already live on their ble, we compare the results of these surveys against the rehouses, in order to evaluate their satisfaction level. sults obtained in 2010: 2010 2011 This is how we approach our clients: Average 9 and 10 Average 9 and 10 Question 2010 clients % 2011 clients % At the end of 2011, we have over 2,100 counselors trained to Another strategy is our GEO Hotline, a call center dedicated Do you think that what you paid for the house you received was not much, fair or a lot? 85.97 76.3% 87.35 80.7% help the customer find the best options. to the customer’s attention through a 01 800 free number. We also have our website. Overall, how would you rate the quality of life in your housing community? 88.38 57.7% 89.14 61.9% Our marketing strategy is an important feature How do you rate the attention for the guarantees or damages that have 78.52 69.2% 82.61 72.8% Our consultants follow up every call or contact, and support that distinguishes us from the competition. the customer with information that will facilitate the process of occurred in your home? buying a GEO home. We also keep contact with our customers How do you rate the service of the sales consultant? 86.53 74.2% 87.02 76.1% Besides the traditional channels (Sales Service Centers), the through social networks (Facebook and Twitter). goal of GEO is to “go for the customer,” and we do so through How do you rate the condition of your home when it was delivered to you? 78.76 81.5% 80.99 83.8% innovative channels. Annually, we generate 2 million calls to our How do you rate the quality of your home? 83.29 82.6% 84.17 85.4% 28% of our sales are made through innovative channels. potential customers, and we receive 1 million How do you rate the services of drainage, sewerage, street lighting, roads, etc.? 85.09 46.0% 85.81 49.4% customer calls. How do you rate the equipment and/or appeal of the housing development? 87.68 45.7% 88.46 59.4% GEO was the first developer who created the concept of the “Shops”. GEO shops are points of distribution displayed on How do you rate the availability of basic commercial services nearby? 75.32 86.2% 76.39 87.8% strategic sites nationwide. In these locations, we advise and virHow do you rate the public transportation? 77.55 80.5% 79.37 81.4% tually introduce the GEO community to our customers. In addition, we transport our clients to the housing developments so How do you rate the design or style of your home? 89.65 65.0% 89.83 71.4% they can see it physically on board a mobile unit comfortably 86.64 82.6% 87.57 84.3% equipped (GEO Bus). How do you rate the services of water and electricity in your home? 83.61 71.7% 84.89 74.2% Global average Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 48 Guarantees care: Communications and marketing 49 A clear and honest advertising image supports Casas GEO, GEO Associate is our loyalty program intended for elderly peopromoting family life in harmony with the environment and the ple (clients, partners and the public in general) who wish to community, through images and phrases allusive to family gathehave an additional income through the continuous recommenrings, sporting or recreational outdoors activities in the company of family and friends, seeking to promote a healthy interaction dation prospects. with the community and the environment. GEO Associate offers its partner community a benefits scheme Under the same scheme, we program promotional activities thinthat provides discounts on various commercial establishments, king about the Mexican families and the opportunity for them to private assistance, a life insurance and a commission for each improve their quality of life in a sustainable community in which property deeded. their home will be worth more over time. With respect to sponsoring, we participate in multiple activities GEO Easy is our savings program designed GEO Associates 2011 (sports, social and cultural) connected with a project of social or for people who cannot prove income, but have community support. For example, we give an endorsement in GEO Associates Partners 2,857 the race “Running for Mexico”, supporting the delivery of schosufficient ability to pay. Thus, we provide a larships to youngsters in need. real solution to customers who cannot afford a GEO Associates Customers 7,456 mortgage loan on any of the traditional schemes. GEO Associates Independent 3,635 Total Socios GEO 2011 13,948 In 2011, we signed over 1,100 deeds with GEO Easy, while in 2010 they were only 614. Information about our products and services Owner’s Manual 1. Regional location of the project, general plan of the housing, Once our customers buy their home in a GEO Sustainable Comnumber of dwelling units, description of what is offered and not offered or prohibited on the development (equipment, utilities, access, munity we gave them the Owner’s Manual, a document aimed boundary perimeter, surveillance, parking lots, etc..), as well as a Testimony of a GEO Associate: to serve as a guide through the process of understanding the sketch showing the location of the nearest services: shopping cen“operation” of their dwellings and the housing development, as ters, banks, schools, parks, laundromats, etc.. “I am a single mother, living in Ecatepec, Mexico. I first well as a guide regarding the preventive maintenance to ensure 2. Information about places, schedules and requirements for hiring met Casas GEO when I came to ask for the GEO Easy the surplus value of the property. the services of electricity, water, telephone, gas, cable television, program and a counselor told me about the GEO Aspay property taxes, garbage collection system, etc. sociate program. Therefore, I signed up and started to The Owner’s Manual contains the following information: 3. Guide for living under the condominium property regime. participate. I really like the program because it has given me the opportunity to help many people. My family and 4. Advantages of our building system: using the latest technology, friends know me as a GEO Associate and this has opebenefits of architectural and urban design, regulation for the ironwork protections for doors and windows (architectonic plan ned me many doors.” and design), satellite television, telephone network, preventive maintenance of different facilities (methods and frequencies), “My daughter has seen all that I have lived as a GEO procedure for submitting a report for damage covered by the guarantees, guarantees (validity and coverage), recommendations Associate, she has come with me to the events they perfor emergencies. form for us and has given me her full support. She urges me to go ahead and work with enthusiasm to achieve the 5. Information about the expansion or renovation of the house. goals we have planned together.” 6. Phone and email: public services, emergency, customer service, community quality of life, call center, as well as the names of those Maria Marcela Vega Patiño responsible such services. GEO Associate since 2009 Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 50 Customer Privacy 51 3. Community In compliance with the Federal Data Protection (http://lfpdp.mx) Additionally we work with highly trained staff, whose profile is Our social commitment to social involves the sustainable deDuring 2011, we made a social investment velopment of structures and social networks that enable the we guarantee that the information provided by our customers suitable to perform responsibly on their daily work. We also communities to be independent and self-sufficient. in infrastructure and equipment for more will not be used improperly or are susceptible to stray. have a Code of Ethics and Conduct, a document known by all GEO partners and with which they are committed. Based on our policy and strategy for Sustainable Communities, than $ 1.455 million pesos. For this, we have several strategic partners that allow us to rewe generate concrete actions targeting the inhabitants of our main at the forefront of technology, safeguarding our customers developments and surrounding communities. and business partners’ information, without losing operability. Such is the case of Oracle, a data center with extremely high levels of security. Initiatives for continuous improvement SinerGEO is an initiative of Casas GEO created with the mission to strengthen the GEO strategy, accompanying the client throughout his life, to diversify the Group with profitability. At the end of 2011, we had over 1,000 partners focused on providing solutions to our customers. It generated revenues of more than 300 million pesos. In education: In public spaces and green areas: 100 classrooms for kindergarten and daycare 250.000 m2 of neighborhood gardens + than 140 classrooms for elementary school + than 180.000 m2 of sports areas Convenience stores located within our develo110 classrooms for high school Points of sale and approach with our clients, (16 distributed in the metropolitan area of Mexipments, dedicated to satisfy the supply needs co City and within the Republic), located in of our customers. They are under the concept central areas of those cities in where GEO is of “neighborhood convenience stores” taking present. There you can buy products of all our care of both the economy and the ecology of developments and prototypes. communities. It provides financing options. It offers a wide Company specialized on interior decoration an range of loans to equip, remodel or expand a design. It offers the best equipment with cushouse. tom-made furniture for the house, allowing the optimization of spaces. It offers professional management solutions within our communities to generate sustainable It provides state of the art telecommunications development with surplus and quality of life. In for the homes in our developments, such as 2010, we consolidated the INFONAVIT Services cable television, internet and IP telephony. CuMortgage program through which the institution rrently it is operating in the State of Mexico, MoIn transport and roads: In basic services: itself collects the maintenance fee. In 2011, 4,800 relos and Querétaro and is planning to expand its operations to the rest of the states where we homes were managed under this program against have presence. 2,500,000 m2 in urbanization building works 13 water treatment plants 1.899 in 2010. + than 160 km bike lane structure installed 26.000 bikes delivered to customers Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 52 GEO Foundation List of activities for 2010 and 2011 53 With a mission to promote, coorThe program operates through working groups that identify the dinate and ensure the establishneeds of the community, based on a diagnostic process and GEO Foundation is responsible for ensuring the sustainable opeEducation, employment, public health, safety and ment of sustainable community the participatory planning. ration of the Community Development Centers (CDC), which are community life development projects, GEO public spaces created for the development of the inhabitants of Foundation works to improve the Using a methodology for impact assessment, we qualify these the communities. These sites organize productive, educational, quality of life and environment of actions taking into account the impact indicators, which show cultural and sporting activities. the communities. the actual progress of the program in the areas of health, edu2010 141 cation, employment, public spaces and safety from a zero baCommunity centers have an infrastructure based on squares, The Community Development Programme aims to promote sis. We not only evaluate the solutions and services offered, but auditoriums, cafeterias, computer centers, clinics or pharmacies, community organization with the direct and active involvement also the target population. daycare center, greenhouse, playroom, playground, multipurpoof the population. Its goals are: se saloon and various services such as internet cafe, technical 2011 225 This year, the Community Development Program training, computer or sport classes, adult basic education, open • To promote and implement sustainable actions that improves influenced more than 36,000 people. school and community workshops. The number of activities in 2011 increased by 60%. the quality of life of community’s inhabitants; Number of beneficiaries of the Community Development Program • Facilitate the access in public areas to providers of social welfare services in health, education, employment, safety and community life, through partnerships and collaboration scheCommunity Day mes inside or outside the community, enabling them to fulfill the 24,038 2010 inhabitants needs; In 2011, as every year, we carried out the “Community Day,” • Develop a culture that promotes teamwork and common welour sustainable action project that seeks to improve the fare to establish goals that benefit everyone. 36,167 Welfare Services (satisfiers), and make them more accessible 2011 in each of our developments. Actions of the community development program On this day, the inhabitants of the GEO community, the neighboring communities as well as our partners and volunteers, join efforts on behalf of the communities selfWelfare satisfier Infraestructura Services management. 17 new community workshops Community Day Evolution Computer Center (20 equipments) Opening of ICATI (5 jobs) Education 2 classrooms for Preschool GED (General Education Diploma) (Off school) Zitlaltepec 1st.Earth Earth Day 2009 Community Day Community Day reforestation Day 3rd Generation 2010 2011 Employment / “El Ofertón de Pilares”, 50 authorized Microcredit in Compartamos Banco shops 2 piñata production cooperatives Supply 2 Job Fairs Public Spaces / 2 soccer fields Soccer Academy 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 5 public telephones Basketball Academy Community life Reforestation of over 5,000 trees Scholarships for swimming school Reforestation and sowing Sustainable Project for the Cover at least 1 of the 10 Cover at least 1 of the 10 of 50 hectares with 60,000 benefit of the communities basic welfare satisfiers basic welfare satisfiers trees of the Pinus Greggi Reforestation in 13 places and surroundings in each of the GEO in each of the GEO 3 generic pharmacies species Communities Communities 1 naturist pharmacy 30 days of health Health 2 medical offices 1,100 volunteers 2,300 volunteers 9,518 volunteers 11,640 volunteers 16,794 volunteers Hot breakfasts in 1 school 1 project 14 projects 15 projects 41 projects 41 projects Security 3 “Teocalli” booths with permanent surveillance The projects implemented contemplated issues such as improving public spaces, health fairs and sporting days. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 54 Alliances with other institutions 55 4. Suppliers and contractors In order to work together on related topics, GEO Foundation has collaborated with prestigious institutions in the country, such as: We work with the purpose of establishing and maintaining a nationwide, through a management methodology and develong-term relationship with our suppliers and contractors, balopment that includes an analysis on issues of social and corOrganización Objetivo sed on trust, cooperation and the generation of added-value. porate responsibility CDI Implement model of digital literacy and computer centers We currently have over 25,000 suppliers and contractors, From 2009 to 2011, we have certified 108 CEMEX “Patrimonio Hoy” Program, for assessment and financing for the expansion of dwellings 95% of which are national, and come from the localities whesuppliers and contractors. CONADE Support and advice on operation of popular sports centers re they work. Through them, we generate over 20,000 jobs ILCE Distance education programs and job skills certification indirectly. We have implemented a feedback process in which we asked PROEMPLEO “Emprende” Program, for training and development of new entrepreneurs the suppliers and contractors certified to provide us with their Fundación Dondé Supporting Programs for education through community education modules Our catalog of suppliers and contractors comprises only thocomments according to the results, in order to improve the se who share our ethical values as well as those who have a process where the failure was promptly detected. Grupo Carso for health To establish first contact health centers solid reputation for fairness and integrity in their work. PREPANET (ITESM) Online General Education Development (off school high school) Resulting from this feedback process, we found the following Microcredit program for women As part of this social commitment and our process of insareas of opportunity: Compartamos Banco Trees and plants Provider and advice for their care titutionalization, since 2009 we carried out the Certification Fundación Murrieta Rescue Program for public spaces “Paint Your House” and Assessment Program for Suppliers and Contractors Tecamac Vendom Financial support for the operation of community centers in Zumpango, Edo de Mex. Universidad Panamericana Supporting programs for the recovery of public spaces Universidad Autónoma del Estado de México Support community development through the social service of students Oportunity Areas Acciones Warehouse Lack of care with the material during Distribution of technical data sheets to the warehouses about the Fundraising 2011 loading, causing damage to it. stowage of equipment as well as training to the warehousers. Concept Period Contracts. Excessive time on the generation of Policies generation and control on the elaboration of a contract In order to be transparent in our social contracts. (including time and documents). actions, we generated the GEO Foundation 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fundraising Report 2011: Corporate $2,044,073.7 $3,815,545.0 $1,174,250.0 $927,700.0 Donations of collaborators $82,804.5 $476,457.4 $793,808.1 $993,804.0 As one of our best practices in 2011, Casas GEO took part in Accesorios Plásticos para la Construcción S.A. de C.V. (DAC) Donations in cash $76,130.0 $783,696.8 $591,550.0 $578,012.9 the “Environmental Leadership for Competitiveness”, an iniGrupo Industrial en Poliestireno S.A. de C.V. (GIPSA) Donations inkind $122,846.1 $3,226,232.0 $1,815,973.0 $535,579.0 tiative from the SEMARNAT (Secretariat of Environment and Grupo Imperquimia S.A. de C.V. Total income $2,325,854.3 $8,301,931.2 $4,375,581.1 $3,035,095.9 Natural Resources). Industrial Bloquera Mexicana S.A. de C.V. We invite 9 strategic suppliers to develop eco-efficiency proIUSA S.A de C.V. For 2012, we have set the following goals: jects with environmental benefits, both ecological and econoLEVITON S. de R.L. de C.V. mical, in collaboration with PROFEPA (Federal Environmental TAMEX S.A. de C.V. Protection). 1. Increase the number of community activities by 80% and URREA Dando Vida al Agua S.A. de C.V. the number of participants by 70% 2. To start the sustainable operation of three community centers, through proper design of spaces and use. 3. Increase fundraising by 250%. • To learn more about our foundation, please visit our website: http://fundaciongeo.com/ Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Social performance 4 Together “Together we use human resources responsibly” we use human resources Environmental performance responsibly 58 Together we use natural resources responsibly 59 3) Association “Vivienda y Entorno The main objectives of the Sustainable Environment Sustentable A.C. (VESAC) Housing Association are: 4 A fundamental part of the transformation of Casas GEO dwellings in sustainable communities is its commitment to the environment. Our strategy includes initiatives focused on programs Through this partnership, homebuilders nationwide, government and academia share the responsibility for sustainable ma• Actions aimed towards the development of sustainable housing projects that contribute to the preservation and improvereducing environmental impact in the medium and long term. to reduce nagement in the industry initiatives. The association comprises CONAVI, SHF, INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, as well as the leading ment of the environment, promotion and sustainable use of natural resources. Programs for the use and care of natural resources. environmental homebuilders: Casas GEO, URBI, Sadasi, ARA and Vinte. Dr. Mario Molina and his team, lead this initiative as experts in the field of climate change. • Establish a central information system with national coverage, as liaison with national and international organizations for In Casas GEO we have implemented the following programs to impact Through this initiative, we work on housing policy from the the dissemination and sharing of information in the housing market, as well as technological developments to occur in the optimize the use of natural resources. perspective of sustainability. sustainable housing. • Promote and conduct research and technological develop1) GEO+Plus ment of materials and construction processes, market testing and information systems related to housing. The focus of this project is to generate efficiencies and savings to give our customers more for the same price. • Develop covenants, contracts, pacts and any other agreements with agencies or entities from the Federal Government, In environmental terms, this program establishes the criteria as well as with state governments and municipalities. It may for land use and materials as well as the guidelines on public also sign agreements with civil associations and NGOs. spaces and urban design for the sustainable development of our communities. • Create the conditions for the exchange of information and collaboration among members of the housing association. In 2011, we increased the number of vertical housing, which resulted in larger public spaces, more m2 in the houses and savings in infrastructure (roads, facilities, services). 4) GEO Plant 2) INFONAVIT Green Mortgage This program provides an additional credit to finance eco-techThis policy sets vegetation criteria for each climate zone in nologies at home, such as water-saving systems, fluorescent which GEO has presence. Its aim is to create distinctive public lamps and solar water heaters. This results in important saspaces for our communities with water and energy savings. vings in water and energy consumption, granting the possibility The policy was developed in conjunction with Desarrollo y Gesfor a greater payment capacity to the beneficiary. tión Urbana (DGU), an independent consultant with experience in the sustainable management of public spaces nationwide. Consistent with the institutional requirements driven by INFONAVIT, GEO has stood out in the provision of eco-efficiencies in housing in 2011, being the developer who implemented a greater number of green mortgages. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance 60 Analysis and measurement of our environmental impact Efficient use of energy 61 In Casas GEO we have succeeded in reducing energy use Under the premise “what is not measured cannot be improThe study includes six areas: through various initiatives such as the Green Mortgage proved”, in 2011 we work closely with the Mario Molina Center in gram, bioclimatic design and installation of photovoltaic a study for testing and measuring the housing industry environand LED lighting systems. mental impact in all the life cycle stages of a dwelling. 1. Efficient use of energy Measuring energy use in our home Derived from this study, we have identified where our higher 2. Water Care impact is, so we can take action to mitigate it. 3. Biological Diversity Through a survey conducted by the Mario Molina Center, we established the indicators for the annual consumption of 4. Transportation electricity for every Casas GEO house inhabited, as well as 5. Adequate waste management for the frequency of payments. 6. Environmental innovations Annual expenditure ZMM ZMT ZMVM on electricity $ 8000 6000 Life cycle stages of a dwelling 4000 ZMM ZMT ZMVM Economic NA 4800 1200 Disposal, reuse or recycling Extraction of raw materials 2000 Popular 1500 2124 1200 0 Traditional 1233 2730 1200 Economic Popular Traditional Economic Popular Traditional Economic Popular Traditional Source: CMM: Evaluation of sustainability of housing in Mexico. ZMM: Monterrey Metropolitan Area 0.1% ZMT: Tijuana Metropolitan Area MCMA: Mexico City Metropolitan Area Green Mortgage Energy savings of dwellings with Green Mortgage in 2011 Manufacture 20% Demolition By implementing water heaters, flow heaters, insulation and Green Mortgage proliferation in Casas GEO from 2009 to 2011 fluorescent lamps, we achieve the following savings on CO2: Units Ton of CO2 avoided by total housing CO2/kh Ton year by water heaters 3,126 Use and maintenance Construction CO2/kh Ton year by flow heaters 8,241 39,615 CO2/kh Ton year by insulation in warm areas 655 9,268 10,923 Energy Consumption 79.9% CO2/kh Ton year by fluorescent lamps 4,489 2009 2010 2011 Figure 1 shows that in the stages of raw material extraction, manufacturing and construction is where about 20% of the environmental impacts The units presented in this table include 39.615 homes built with Green Mortgages. of housing happens, while the other 80% occurs in the use and mainteSource: CMM: Performance Evaluation of Housing. Based on data from nance stage. Crawford, 2011. This represents a total of 2.07 tons of CO2 avoided per year per household. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance 62 Photovoltaic equipment GEO housing water savings through Green Mortgage in 2011 63 Our water care initiatives are: Another proposal to improve and conserve energy efficiently in Photovoltaic Equipment: Consists of a low power consumption lamp Low consumption Water saving shower Water saving faucet the home is the installation of photovoltaic equipment for public (typically LEDs), photovoltaic panel, battery and charge controller, all Water savings with the initiative of Green Mortgage bathroom furniture kits lighting as well as other important areas in communities. the above integrated into a post. Each of these devices can provide an energy saving of 300 to 500W/hour per day, in contrast to the Savings under the scheme of Green Mortgage, are derived 231,352 462,703 433,784 traditional systems from the implementation of water saving systems such as low consumption bathroom furniture, water saving showers and m3/año m3/año m3/año water saving faucet kits. Cost savings for our customers Social impact of energy efficient use Total savings of households with Green Mortgages in 2011. With our program implementation, we have made significant VSM Segment Minimum monthly savings $ This represents a saving of 28.47 m3 of water per household per year. efficiency energy savings in the economy of our customers. 1 – 6.99 215.00 Considering that the socioeconomic profile of our customers 7 – 10.99 290.00 is in the segment of 1-6.99 VSM (times the minimum salary), Care and water recycling the estimated monthly savings is approximately of $215 pesos. De 11 en adelante 400.00 As part of our GEO + Plus strategy, in our development we try Water recycling in 2011 VSM: Times Minimum Salary to have: In 2011 they were in operation 19 Fixed Treatment Plants: Source: Ecological Housing Explanatory Manual Green Mortgage, INFONAVIT (December, 2011) • Treatment plants that allow us to reuse the water for domes• 10 in the State of Mexico (Laguna Villas, Hacienda Las Misiones, HaWater Care tic use in our developments; cienda Las Misiones 2nd. Stage, Hacienda Vista Real, Las Palmas 3rd. • Regulation basins for water collection that allow us to reuse it Stage, Hacienda Santa Clara, Real Santa Clara, Pueblo Nuevo, Villas del for urban use, irrigation and groundwater recharge; Campo, Jardínes de Santa Teresa and Santa Cruz). One of the most important resources in the area of housing • Absorption wells and regulation trays, and • 2 in Morelos (Campo Verde and Arco Antiguo); development is water. Therefore, Casas GEO implements ac• Wetlands and other urban landscape elements that allow us • 1 in Jalisco (Arvento); tions that allow us to ensure proper handling and care of this to make a more efficient use of the resource. • 2 in Veracruz (Hacienda Sotavento and Hacienda Los Cafetales); vital resource. • 1 in Pilares. The construction and operation of treatment plants help Measuring water consumption in our homes save water: The analysis conducted by the Mario Molina Center allowed us Water savings in GEO dwellings with Green Mortgage in 2011 to identify the level of consumption. Tijuana Metropolitan Area showed the highest levels of consumption in the traditional Volume of treated water in Volume of recycled water in Volume of recycled water in Annual savings for water reuse housing environment. We measure the level of dependence on 2011 2011 (m3/year) 2011 (10 m3 pipes) (considering $ 300 per pipe) the mains supply both at the dwelling and in its environment. 7,925,221 1,614,997 144,220 43,265,923 Treatment Reuse Number of pipes Annual savings in pesos Annual Water Consumption (m3) Note: Information concerning treatment plants reported. For these results, we ZMM ZMT ZMVM carry out specific studies of each, but as a summary we report the global data. 600 500 400 From the volume of treated water, we donate a large part 300 200 ZMM ZMT ZMVM to municipalities, and another part was deposited into the 100 Economic NA 444.7014 296.4676 municipal network Popular 222.3507 296.4676 278.2176 0 Traditional 222.3507 370.5845 296.4676 In our housing developments we reuse water for irrigation of Economic Popular Traditional Economic Popular Traditional Economic Popular Traditional green areas, as well as in some construction processes, thus Source: CMM: Evaluation of sustainability of housing in Mexico. avoiding the use of 144.220 pipes that would be paid for the ZMM: Monterrey Metropolitan Area ZMT: Tijuana Metropolitan Area MCMA: Mexico City Metropolitan Area Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance 64 Biodiversity Green City Greenhouse Education Programs 65 Environmental education program Along with the actions regarding the Green City Greenhouse, One of the most important aspects of Casas GEO environmental As part of the initiatives undertaken in 2011, with great respect Casas GEO has the task of providing training to children living in our In 2011, 3 groups of 35 children came to visit us from housing developstrategy is the conservation of biodiversity. for nature protection areas and high biodiversity zones are: developments. This in order to create environmental awarements in Zumpango, State of Mexico. The purpose of such visits was to ness on them, and let them know the plant growth process, teach parents and children the different techniques for growing vegetaMeasurement of developable land in the construction as well as make them value those they have in their community bles for their consumption at home, and thus promote the care of green as a source of oxygen for living things. In these courses, we areas in their community. In the field of construction, the most significant impacts to bioditeach children the different techniques to plant vegetables, as versity are derived from the urbanization process related to the Category Weighing Vulnerability well as the proper way to plant a tree. changes in the land use. To identify such impact, GEO considered the Mario Molina Center study, whose results showed that the 1 Urban zone 0 Very low company settles particularly on land where the predominant use 2 Area with no apparent vegetation 10 Very low Protected or restored habitats is agricultural, so the level of vulnerability is low. 3 Agricultural zone 20 Low 4 Special 30 Low In collaboration with the Ministry of Environment and Natural 5 Natural grassland 40 Medium Resources (SEMARNAT) and the National Commission for 6 Hydrophilic vegetation 60 High Natural Protected Areas, GEO Baja California participated in the 7 Bush 70 High program of conservation and management: Ecological Preserva8 Jungle 90 Very high tion Zone: Doña Petra Canyon Emilio Zamora Lopez Dam, 9 Forest 100 Very high Municipality of Ensenada, BC Source: CMM: Evaluation of the sustainability of housing in Mexico The overall objective of this program is to ensure groundwater recharge, the conservation of biodiversity and landscape in order to achieve sustainable use of resources through the use of environmental services in the locality. Reforestation in Valle de los Sauces The Valle de los Sauces housing development in Atlacomulco, State of The protected natural zone covers an area of Mexico, has a grove that includes an inventory of about 1,000 trees, within 205Has. which are mainly Ahuejote Willows and Tejocotes, which are being restoGreen City Greenhouse red to become part of the development. We have achieved to: In addition to the work done in vegetation and landscaping, we In 2011, the Greenhouse had a production of 23,000 trees of various carry out restoration and reforestation of groves. • Preserve the endemic vegetation in the area, species1, which underwent a process of growth and bagging for their • Contribute to the conservation of the environment, development. We got 56% of this plant material to exceed their original Other work we do within the housing developments is the trans• Have direct sources to produce oxygen for the inhabitants, Green City Greenhouse height of 15 cm to 35 cm to 65 cm to 100 cm. In this way, we calculate plantation of trees that we rescue during the construction process. • Provide spaces for outdoor activities. that in one year they will reach a height of 150 cm to 180 cm so we can We preserve them through a process called banqueo and then plant them in the various housing developments. we moved them to different points within the building work, whether medians, roundabouts, access and public spaces. Thus, We also placed 848.000 plants in our housing developments, 43.6% of we dress our dwelling units with great size trees, avoiding any Trees planted in our developments 2,452 which were trees and the rest were ornamental plants. damage to the native vegetation found on the terrain. In this way, we fulfill the objective of developing the largest number of We have transplanted trees in various housing developments in trees, with a comprehensive method to take full advantage of all the Zumpango and Hacienda Margarita, in Hidalgo. 1,000 vegetation resources, keeping a natural balance to achieve a business 750 unit that protects and preserves the environment. We have an agreement with Probosque, an institution of the 700 500 State of Mexico Government, who support us by donating trees for the construction phase. Thanks to Probosque, in 2011 we 60 planted 5,462 trees during GEO Foundation’s event known as the Community Day. 1 Wild Privet (Ligustrum Lucidum), White Cedar (Cupressus lusitanica), Sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua), to name a few. Los Sauces Villas del Agaves Paseos de Campo Trinidad Grove Roble San Juan Verde Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance 66 Transport Impact transportation of personnel or customers 67 Kilometres traveled by transportation at work In the housing developments, we have transport systems that Material transported Kilometers traveled allow us to make a rational and efficient use of energy and the11,580,000 Transport is a significant source of emissions, so we strive to reby reduce the impact generated by the transportation at the reduce its environmental impact on our activities and develo208 km ZMT site. In 2011, we traveled 11,580,000 kilometers. 11,365,000 pments. Asphalt 43.4 km ZMM 90 km ZMVM Some of the measures implemented to reduce these routes are: 1,311 km ZMC The fuel controlling system cuts off fuel to vehicles. They receiSteel 2,449 km ve only the enough fuel they require, according to the time the engine was in operation. Block 15.5 km ZMM The vehicles within our housing developments, transport the 109.3 km ZMT inhabitants to the point where they can collectively use public 2010 2011 Cement 21.9 km ZMM transport to their workplaces. 29.5 km ZMVM 319 km ZMC -We have vehicles that transport groups of customers to our Casas GEO emission of greenhouse effect 2011: housing developments, so they can physically see our GEO 2,360.5 km ZMT communities. Direct emissions: 2,547.6 tons of CO2 PVC 4.3 km ZMM 399 km ZMVM Scope: Only report emissions per km traveled for transportation 2,041 km ZMC Cycling infrastructure in communities GEO at building work. In order to promote alternative mobility in our housing develoSource: CMM: Evaluation of sustainability of housing in Mexico. pments, we create bike lanes and walking spaces. In 2011, we ZMM: Monterrey Metropolitan Area managed to build 160 kms of cycling infrastructure. Kilometers of cycling infrastructure consolidated ZMT: Tijuana Metropolitan Area ZMVM: Mexico City Metropolitan Area Casas GEO Machinery ZMC: Cancun Metropolitan Area 160 100 In Casas GEO we have the largest machinery equipment in Mexico, which comprises: 3.449 major and minor equipment, and 869 vehicles including utility vans and all kind trucks. The highest standards of noise reduction and reduction of gas emission into the atmosphere. 2010 2011 The machine has an average age of 5.6 years. Bikes delivered to our customers To keep the optimum condition of all our equipment, GEO has an area of Machinery, staffed by a professional team, consisting of 234 people (staff and maintenance), which guarantee the 26,271 proper functioning of the equipment in order to prevent noise 20,000 and pollutant emissions that can affect the environment in violation of the standards. 2010 2011 Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance 68 Implementation of DOTS methodology Major valued materials used in housing 69 (Sustainable Transport Oriented Development). The recycled materials more used in housing development are In 2011, together with the Center for Sustainable Transport concrete, mortar, block, steel and precast materials. (CTS), an international nonprofit organization focused on competitive urban environment under sustainable transport schemes, Casas GEO implement the DOTS methodology in the new housing development of La Noria in Zumpango. This Percentage of materials that are recycled allowed us to increase by 70% pedestrian and bike lanes to (housing only) encourage more competitive and friendly spaces for the user, both in roads and in housing cloisters. Housing (m2) Concrete and mortar Block Steel Precast 45 14.46 9.68 11.81 5.66 58 18.5 12.5 13.73 6.81 37 23.37 5.74 13.69 Adequate waste management The information listed in this table applies to the most representative housing prototypes of the company, which are 45, 58 and 37 m2. Materials used In the process of housing developing and building we use Due to the Mario Molina Center study, we identified the foConstruction stage various construction materials, all of the highest quality, llowing materials in housing construction: concrete, block and which contributes to the efficiency of our processes and steel, which represent 82% of total housing in contrast to the The greatest impact at this stage, according to the CMM study products. predominantly urban asphalt, concrete and PVC. comes from the use of diesel for the activities of compaction and leveling of a cubic meter of ground. Fuel consumption by compacting and leveling of a cubic meWeight ratio of the main building materials in housing (construction unit) and ter of land is 1.84 liters of diesel consumed per hour. urbanization. Water consumption per square meter of housing is 79 liters. Housing (construction unit) Urbanization Construction waste 2.80% 4.0% 5.01% Other cutting-edge building systems, such as ALPHA, have a 18% Waste materials material reduction of no more than 0.1% (for further reference of this construction system see the special section ALPHA in 87.38% According to the traditional construction system, waste of maEnvironmental Innovation: Efficiency of production). terials used in housing is as follows: 60% Concrete Asphalt Block Concrete Concrete 1% waste Steel PVC It is not considered waste because it comes in a Steel package set for the prototype house. Flat grey block 1.5% waste Source: CMM, Evaluation of sustainability of housing in Mexico. PVC Pipe 1% waste Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance 70 Environmental innovations 71 Total homes constructed with ALPHA 2010 2011 Production efficiency Within the industrial production processes, we implement actions to improve the efficiency of both production processes and construction: With the factory ALPHA, this year we build 4.421 houses. Compared with 2010, there was an increase of 2.028 dwellings. Research and development of concrete and mortars for improved performance. Studies of material supply logistics and work force for ALPHA began operating two plants, one in Monterrey and the other in Jalisco, with a production capacity of 1500 verti4,428 more efficient times and costs of movements in the procescal dwellings each. The investment was $ 123MDP (million 2,400 ses of the building work itself. pesos) to Monterrey’s plant and $ 112MDP Jalisco, generating Evaluation and, where applicable, renewal of key equipmore than 400 direct jobs in each. ment and machinery in the processes. Prefabrication of elements in the ALPHA factory: 2010 2011 ALPHA It is GEO’s industrialized housing factory, through which the reduction of materials decreases. The benefits of the ALPHA factory are: In 2011, ALPHA helped us to reduce the time required for the assembly of vertical housing in nine weeks, against the traditional system. Comparison of ALPHA system vs. the traditional system Client Traditional system of vertical construction + Product Quality 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Square Meters Short term: Improvement in working capital Foundations Fast Housing Delivery Assembly and finish Construction Long term: Improve margins and returns Titling Billing ALPHA industrial system for vertical construction Speeds up the vertical construction 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Friendly environment Foundations Support our social vision Assembly and finish Construction Titling Parallel Source: ALPHA foundations Billing Source: ALPHA. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance 72 73 Environmental Challenges for 2012 Reduce environmental impact by densification and verticalization. Because of the outcomes identified in the analysis and measurement of the Mario Molina Center, as from 2011 we must face To promote densification and verticalization in our develothe challenge of carrying out the following: pments, in order to reduce the environmental impact of the developed land, earthworks or others we have already identified and that can be optimized through this type of housing. Make our processes more efficient, whilst retaining the current and future resources. Through our strategy GEO Plus, we have to generate a more efficient operation in the process of sequence linearity on the building work, considering the processes or areas where we Increased number of homes under the ALPHA know we cause a greater impact within the housing’s life cycle. system Increase the number of homes built by the ALPHA system, in order to have processes that are more efficient. Make communities more competitive with better quality of life and value. In order to keep building the Best Place to Live we will continue to regulate the design and construction of our sustainable communities through the inclusion of our 10 Welfare Satisfiers and 7 Principles of design in our sustainable communities. This will further promote the use of transport, health and Awards and Recognition education facilities, as well as green areas, according to the new guidelines of CONAVI. GEO Corporation was honored with the following awards and recognitions during 2011: Consolidate developments in the country • Recognition granted by INFONAVIT for under the scheme of DUIS. being the housing developer with more individualized credits in 2010. Mexico 2011. Venture into the Integrated Sustainable Urban Developments • Distinction as Socially Responsible (DUIS) consistent with the needs of the municipal and state goCompany granted by the CEMEFI for the vernments in each state. So far, we have a development approsixth consecutive year. Mexico 2011. val process in Morelos. Our goal is to join other developments to this scheme in 2012. • Recognition granted by INFONAVIT as the second place, according to the Accredited Satisfaction Index in the Valley of Mexico. Mexico 2011. • Ninth place in the ranking of the 50 most socially responsible companies in Mexico 2011. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance 74 United Nations Global Compact GRI Index 75 PROFILE PAGES Together we work to promote responsible corporate citizenship, ensuring that the business is part of the solution for the 1.1. Statement by the Chief Executive on the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 2 challenges of globalization. Thus, the private sector, in 1.2. Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 2 Since 2005, GEO Corporation is adhered to the principles partnership with other stakeholders, can help achieve a of UN Global Compact launched in 2000. This Pact is the more sustainable and inclusive global economy. 2.1. Name of the organization. 3 largest corporate citizenship initiative in the world. 2.2. Major brands products and / or services. 10-11 This 2011 we endorse our commitment to the Global Compact, 2.3. Operational structure of the organization. 13-19 More than 3,000 companies from 100 countries, plus more whose ten principles we have incorporated into this report as part 2.4. Location of the organization’s head office Inside backpage than 700,000 union and civil society organizations worldwide, of our Communication on Progress, according to cross-reference 2.5. Number of countries where the organization operates. 11 participate in the initiative. table between them and the GRI indicators. 2.6. Nature of property and legal form. 3 2.7. Markets served. 28 2.8. Dimensions of the reporting organization. 26-27 Cross-reference table between the Global Compact principles and GRI Indicators 2.9. Significant changes during the period covered by the report in the size, structure and ownership of the organization. 3 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period. 73 Areas GM Principles Relevant indicators of the GRI MEMORY PROFILE Human Rights Principle 1 Companies must support and respect the protection of EC5, LA4, LA6 – 9; LA13 – 14, 3.1. Period covered by the information in memory. 3 internationally proclaimed human rights. DH1 – 9, SO5, RP1 – 2, RP8 3.2. Date of the most recent previous memory (if any). 3 3.3. Memory reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc..). 3 Principle 2 Companies must ensure they are not accomplices of DH1 -9, SO5 3.4. Contact point for questions regarding the memoryor its contents. Inside backpage human rights abuses. SCOPE AND COVERAGE OF THE MEMORY Work Principle 3 Companies must uphold the freedom of association LA4 – 5, DH1 – 3, DH5, S05 and effective recognition of the right to celebrate collective labor 3.5. Process for defining the contents of the memory. 3 contracts. 3.6. Coverage of the memory 3 3.7. State any limitations on the scope or coverage of the memory. Principle 4 Companies must uphold the elimination of all forms of DH1 – 3, DH7, SO5 forced and compulsory labor. 3.8. The basis for reporting on joint ventures (joint ventures), subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and otherentities that can significantly affect comparability between periods and / or organizations. Principle 5 Companies must support the effective abolition of DH1-3, DH6, SO5 3.9. Data measurement techniques and calculations basis, including assumptions and techniques underlying the estimates 3 child labor. applied to the compilation of indicators and other information from memory. 3.10. Description of the effect of any re-statements of information (the restatement of information) belonging to previous 3 Principle 6 Companies must uphold the elimination of EC7, LA2, LA13 – 14, DH1 – 4, reports, along with the reasons for such restatement. discrimination in employment and occupation. SO5 3.11. Significant changes from previous periods regarding the scope, coverage or measurement methods applied 3 in the memory. Environment Principle 7 Companies must support a precautionary approach to EC2, AM18, AM26, AM30, SO5 environmental challenges. GRI INDEX CONTENTS Principle 8 Companies must implement initiatives to promote AM1 30, SO5, RP3 4 greater environmental responsibility. AM2, AM5 – 7, AM10, AM18, 3.12. Table identifying the location of the basic contents in memory. 78-83 Principle 9 Companies must encourage the development and AM26 – 27, AM30, SO5 diffusion of technologies that do not harm the environment. VERIFICATION Anti-corruption Principle 10 Companies need to combat corruption in all its forms, SO2 6 3.13. Policy and current practice with regard to the application for external verification of the memory. If not included in the 74 including extortion and bribery. verification report on the sustainability memory, the scope and basis of any external assurance should be explained. Also must explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the supplier or suppliers of the verification. Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / Environmental performance Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / GRI Index 76 goverment PAGES MARKET PRESENCE PAGES 77 4.1. Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governing body responsible for tasks 18 EC6. Policy, practices and proportion of expenses corresponding to local suppliers in locations of significant operation. 55 such as setting strategy or supervision of the organization. EC7. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of 4.2. Indicate whether the Chairman of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, its role within the 19 significant operation. Directorate of the organization and the reasons justifying it). 100% of our managers are local, and they are selected based on the recruitment and selection policy 4.3. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, indicate the number of members of the highest governance body that 19 are independent or non-executive. 4.4. Mechanisms for the shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 19 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT 4.5. Link between the compensation for members of the highest governing body, senior managers and executives (including aban19 donment arrangements of the position) and organizational performance (including social and environmental performance). EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through 4.6. Procedures implemented to avoid conflicts of interest in the highest governing body. 19 commercial, pro bono, or in kind. 51-53 4.7. Procedure for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 19 EC9. Understanding and describing of significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of such impacts. 26, 34, 51, 55 organization’s strategy on the social, environmental and economic fields. 4.8. Statements about the mission and values developed internally, codes of conduct and principles relevant to the 8, 9, 20 economic, environmental and social performance, as well as the status of their implementation. INFORMATION MANAGEMENT APPROACH 4.9. Procedures of the highest governance body for the organization to monitor the identification and management of 13-14 economic, environmental and social development, including risks and opportunities, as well as the adherence or MATERIALS compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. 4.10.Processes for evaluating the performance of the highest governance body, particularly with respect to economic, 13-14 EN1. Materials used by weight or by volume. 68 environmental and social performance. EN2. Percentage of the material used which have been recycled. 69 COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES ENERGY 4.11. Description of how the organization has adopted a caution approach or principle 29 EN3. Direct energy consumption segmented by primary source. NA 4.12. Principles or social, environmental and economic programs developed externally, as well as other initiatives to which the 22-23 EN4. Indirect energy consumption segmented by primary source. ND organization subscribes or endorses. EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 61, 67 4.13. Main associations to which it belongs (such as industry associations) and/or national entities the organization supports. 22-23 EN6. Initiatives to provide efficient products and services in the consumption of energy or renewable energy based, and reductions in energy consumption resulting from these initiatives. 61-62 EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the reductions achieved through these initiatives. 61-62 PARTICIPATION OF STAKEHOLDERS WATER 4.13. List of stakeholders that the organization has included. 16-17 4.14. Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 16 EN8. Total water collection by source. Casas GEO purchase or outsource different private companies, which have the appropriate permissions 4.15. Approaches for the inclusion of stakeholders, including the frequency of their participation by type and category 4 Conagua (National Water Commission) to provide the resource. of stakeholders. EN9. Water sources significantly affected by the collection of water. There has not been water sources affected 4.16. Key topics and concerns of interest that have arisen through the participation of the stakeholders and how the organization 5 EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 63 has responded to them in the development of the memory. BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTION APPROACHES / CORE INDICATORS EN11. Description of land adjacent to or within protected natural areas or in unprotected high biodiversity areas. 64 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EN12. Description of the most significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas, resulting from the activities, products and EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations services in protected areas and in areas of high biodiversity in zones beyond the protected areas 64 and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. 27, 41, 51 EC2. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 14 EMISSIONS, DISCHARGE AND WASTE EC3. Coverage of the organization’s obligations due to social benefit programs. 41, 51-52 EC4. Significant financial assistance received from government. Casas GEO did not receive direct government assistance EN13. Protected or restored habitats. 55 EC5. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage and the local minimum wage, EN14. Strategies and actions implemented and planned for the managing impacts on biodiversity. 64-65 in places where significant operations are undertaken. The range is not significant Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / GRI Index Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / GRI Index EN15. Number of species, listed according to their risk of extinction, included in the LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and number of deaths related to work, 78 79 IUCN Red List and on national lists, whose habitats are in areas affected by operations. There were no reported species classified by region. 37 EN16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 67 LA8. Education, training, counseling, prevention and control of risks that apply to employees, their EN17. Other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases by weight. NA families or community members in relation to serious diseases. 36-37 EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 61 LA9. Health and safety issues covered in formal agreements with the trade unions. 38 EN19. Emissions of substances that destroy the ozone layer by weight. NA IN 20. NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight. NA TRAINING AND EDUCATION IN 21. Total sewage dumping by quality and destination. 63 EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 69 LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee, classified by category of employee. 43 EN23. Total number and volume of the most significant accidental spills. There were no reported spills LA11. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning, to promote the employability of workers and that EN24. Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III support them in managing the end of their careers. 43 and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Hazardous waste not transported LA12. Percentage of employees who receive regular performance and career development evaluations. 41 EN25. Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by discharges of water and runoff from the reporting organization. There were no significant affectations DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES LA13. Composition of government bodies, corporate and staff, by sex, age group, minority group and other PRODUCTS AND SERVICES indicators of diversity. 34 LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men with respect to women, classified by occupational category 34 EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 58,59 EN27. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are recovered at the end of their useful life by NA INFORMATION MANAGEMENT APPROACH product category. INVESTMENT PRACTICES AND SUPPLIES REGULATORY COMPLIANCE HR1. Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or EN28. Cost of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with the 19 that have undergone screening on human rights. 55 environmental regulations. HR2. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have been subject to analysis on human rights and the actions taken accordingly. 55 TRANSPORT HR3. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights relevant 20 to the operations, including the percentage of employees trained. EN29. Significant environmental impacts for transporting products and other goods, as well as materials used for the 19 activities of the organization and personnel transport. NON-DISCRIMINATION OVERVIEW HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 19 EN30. Breakdown by type of total environmental protection expenditures and investments. ND FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS HR5. Company activities that may jeopardize the right to freedom of association and collective agreements, and EMPLOYMENT actions taken to support these rights. 38 LA1. Detail of workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. 33-34 ABOLITION OF CHILD EXPLOITATION LA2. Total number of employees and average employee turnover broken down by age, sex and region. 34-43 LA3. Social benefits for full-time employees which are not offered to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 42 HR6. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child exploitation and measures to contrib38 ute to its elimination. EMPLOYEES/ MANAGEMENT RELATIONS PREVENTION OF FORCED AN COMPULSORY LABOR LA4. Percentage of employees covered by a collective agreement. 38 LA5. Minimum period(s) on notice(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 38 HR7. Operations identified as high risk because they can lead to forced or compulsory labor, and measures that contribute to their elimination. HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK SAFETY PRACTICES LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in committees of health and safety, together with the management-employee 37 HR8. Percentage of security personnel trained in the policies or organization procedures concerning aspects of 20 committees that help to monitor and advise the health and safety programs at work. human rights relevant to operations. INDIGENOUS PEOPLE RIGHTS Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / GRI Index Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / GRI Index 80 INDIGENOUS PEOPLE RIGHTS PAGES MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PAGES 81 HR9. Total number of incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous people and the actions taken. 19 PR6. Compliance programs to the laws or adherence to standards and voluntary codes related to marketing com49 munications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. INFORMATION MANAGEMENT APPROACH PR7. Total number of incidents derived from the non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, depending on the type of result of these incidents. COMMUNITY There were no incidents SO1. Nature, scope and effectiveness of the programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations 51-53 CUSTOMER PRIVACY on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. PR8. Total number of substantiated complaints in relation to the respect of the privacy and loss of the CORRUPTION personal data of customers. There were no claims SO2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 21 REGULATORY COMPLIANCE SO3. Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures of the organization. 20 SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 21 PR9. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance in relation to the provision and use of products and services of 19 the organization. PUBLIC POLICY SUPPLEMENT INDUSTRY. CONSTRUCTION AND REAL ESTATE SO5. Public policy positions and participation in their development as well as activities of “lobbying.” 22 SO6. Total value of the financial and in kind contributions to political parties or to related institutions, classified by country. NA CRE1. Energy consumed by the building according to its size 61 CRE2. Water consumed by building according to its size 62 BEHAVIOR OF UNFAIR COMPETITION CRE3. Greenhouse gases emitted by building according to its size ND CRE4. Emissions of greenhouse gases emitted by building according to its size, the new buildings and re-urban activity. SO7. Total number of actions arising from causes related to monopolistic practices We do not carry out renovation activities and against free competition, and their results. There were no cases CRE5. Land and other assets recovered and in need of recovery for existing land use or planned by the regulations. There were no cases REGULATORY COMPLIANCE CRE6. Percentage of operations of the organization verified by a safety and health management system internationally recognized. We do not have a management system internationally validate SO8. Monetary value of significant fines and penalties total and number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance 19 CRE7. Number of persons displaced or resettled, voluntarily or involuntarily, sorted by project. with laws and regulations. In 2011, GEO had 22 employees who were transferred voluntarily. CRE8. Type and number of certificates, ratings and labeling systems in sustainability for new construction, management, INFORMATION MANAGEMENT APPROACH occupation and development. 22-23 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1. Life cycle stages of products and services, in which we assess their impacts on the customer´s health and safety, 60 and the percentage of categories of products and services subjected. REFERENCES: PR2. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes related to the impacts of products NA. Not applicable to the company. and services on health and safety during their life cycle, distributed according to the type of result of these incidents. ND. Information not available. There were no incidents NM. Non material indicator to the company, therefore no impact or not relevant. LABELING OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PR3. Types of information on products and services that are required by the existing procedures and regulations, and the 49 percentage of products and services subject to such information. PR4. Total number of infringements of regulations and voluntary codes related to information and labeling of products and services, distributed depending on the type of the result of these incidents. There were no failure PR5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 46-47 Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / GRI Index Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / GRI Index 82 Contact participation is very important to us because it allows us be better. For any feedback, questions or suggestions about this report contact: Dr. Gabriel Lagos Quintana Sustainability Coordinator Phone: (52) 55 52 73 59 09 ext 7032 glagos@casasgeo.com Lic Cinthia Lazcano / clazcano@casasgeo Your. com Dr. Célida Gomez / cigomez@casasgeo.com Corporate Offices: Corporación GEO, S.A.B. de CV Daisies. 433 Col. Exhacienda Guadalupe Chimalistac C.P. 01050, Mexico DF Phone: (52) 55 5480 50 00 www.casasgeo.com www.corporaciongeo.com http://sostenible.casasgeo.com/ www.fundaciongeo.org Asesoría de Promotora ACCSE, SA.de CV Creativity and design: Comunica Sustainable Communities Report 2011 / GRI Index
