A Toy Journey Insights into TOP-TOY’s Sustainability and Financial Performance 2010/2011 A TOY JOURNEY INTRODUCTION 0 3 A toy journey has started and you are coming with us. We will take you from idea to drawing board, over production and transportation, to the store shelf and into children’s playrooms. Join us for a story of what steps are taken, challenges overcome and dilemmas faced when we follow the journey of toys throughout our value chain. SUSTAINABILITY OUR WORLD OF TOYS RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL 14 12 % TOP-TOY AT A GLANCE SCAN THE CODE QR CODE 10 IS SERIOUS 2006/07 12 We face challenges 2007/08 12 8 Gain an overview of TOP-TOY’s Throughout the report you can see how 6 and dilemmas in a dynamic financial performance through we work with sustainability at TOP-TOY BUSINESS TO US 2008/09 9 4 and fast changing industry. 2009/10 12 2 a financial snapshot of the company. by watching our short films. Read about TOP-TOY’s 2010/11 8 0 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 Top management commitment is fundamental for role in the global toy industry To watch the films use your Smart Phone successful implementation of sustainability. Read how and how we deal with and QR reader application when you see TOP-TOY links sustainability and financial performance. stakeholder expectations. the QR code. 0 9 0 4 0 6 0 8 1 2 HOW TOYS ARE MADE 1 4 Learn how TOP-TOY WE SELL 2 1 ensures that toys LOTS OF TOYS are made under conditions RETAIL in respect for human and labour rights. 1 4 Read about customer and employee satisfaction 1 8 in our BR and TOYS”R”US retail stores. 1 0 2 2 CREATIVITY AND DESIGN SAFE TOYS Find out how we ensure TOYS IN PLAY Read how fun, educational, that children can safely Learn how environmentally friendly Nuestros grupos de Interés play with toys and other we help create and safe toys are developed. products purchased from us. happy childhood 2 0 memories. WE BUY LOTS OF TOYS Find out how TOP-TOY TOYS ensures that we only ON THE MOVE purchase toys and products Transporting and storing toys from qualified suppliers and factories. 1 2 is labour intensive. Find out how TOP-TOY moves toys around the world. 1 6 WE SELL LOTS OF TOYS WHOLESALE HOW TO READ THIS REPORT Learn more about 2 4 1 8 our wholesale division and how we work to be a trustworthy This report is centred on our value chain and touches on material financial and non-financial issues. The report consists of three sections. business partner. The first, introductory, section sets the scene for TOP-TOY in the global toys industry. Here, we also present our financial performance for 2010/2011. LEADING THE WAY WE ARE THE TOP-TOY GROUP METHODOLOGY In the second section you follow our value chain by “taking the journey”. Each step of the journey signifies a value adding activity to our products and Get a quick overview of the different aspects of TOP-TOY’s sustainability work, Gain an understanding of TOP-TOY. Read about the Group, including AND REPORTING FRAMEWORK presents some of the challenges we face in our daily work. We have exemplias well as the goals and targets set for the retail channels BR and TOYS”R”US, Read about the methodology and reporting framefied these by following two of our own products throughout the value chain. the future. our wholesale division K.E. Mathiasen (KEM), work applied in this report. Here we include relevant as well as our employees. definitions and a matrix linking our data with the UN In the last section you can read about the TOP-TOY Group, what we do, how we 2 6 3 0 Global Compact principles and selected indicators from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. do it and where we operate, as well as our sustainability goals for the future. SUSTAINABILITY IS SERIOUS BUSINESS TO US INTRODUCTION 0 5 Welcome to our world of toys. We would like you to enjoy our universe as much as we do, and therefore, we have prepared this report, which highlights some of TOP-TOY’s work during the 2010/11 financial period. We want to tell you about the initiatives we have undertaken during the twelve month period and we want to tell you about some of the challenges and dilemmas we face every day as part of doing business in a global context. Examples of our efforts to collaborate with our Developing our Organisation suppliers include supplier seminars, last held in September 2010 for our Asian suppliers. The We are satisfied with the financial result. It reseminars were designed to prepare our suppliflects solidity due to our decision to perform a ers to meet the new European Toy Safety Direcrange of long-term investments in the developtive, which entered into force in July 2011. ment of TOP-TOY. These include: Over the last couple of years we have also adapt• Employees in TOP-TOY have been introduced ed our business planning schedule to accomto a programme, focusing on how to improve modate increased production lead times, which teamwork, commitment and responsibility of gives suppliers managed from Hong Kong the each individual employee. possibility to better organise production processes with the producing factories. • The individual departments’ core services and the cooperation across the group have been Currently, we are in the process of expanding strengthened. our processes for ensuring factory compliance, • We strive to improve our service and the cusfrom covering our suppliers managed from tomer experience through introducing a new LARS GJØRUP Hong Kong, to also cover suppliers managed PETER GJØRUP Service Management programme in our BR The Bottom Line and Sustainability from Denmark. In that way we will ensure a unidocumenting change required for a better and and TOYS”R”US retail stores. form standard for all product purchases made more sustainable TOP-TOY. Financial and sustainability performance are throughout the TOP-TOY Group. Stakeholder Dialogue is Essential two interlinked parts of our business. We canSome of the concrete examples of what we work not drive a successful business without thinking We Sell Lots of Toys We aim to have open dialogue with our stakewith are: sustainability into the way we operate, at the holders such as customers, consumers, employsame time, our work with sustainability has to We sell our toys and other products to children ees, suppliers and NGOs. Many stakeholders are • Rolling out our supplier evaluation probe business driven and linked to our core busiin Northern Europe through our retailor our – just like we are – concerned about social and gramme to all our suppliers. ness areas to add value. wholesale divisions. environmental issues, and we see their concerns • Developing a company wide Code of Conas opportunities to perform even better when In 2010/2011, our annual revenue grew from In 2010/11, we have opened 19 new stores duct to ensure consistent conduct throughit comes to introducing new product lines and 3.6 billion DKK to 4.0 billion DKK. We are very sat(12 BR stores, 4 BR webshops and 3 TOYS”R”US out the group. innovating our business practices; putting us isfied with this growth, considering the impact mega stores). We will continuously assess the in the top class of suppliers of toys and other • Including sustainability as a product characof the global financial crisis in Northern Europe. profitability of each of our stores. The additional products for children. This report is an example teristic in wooden products. stores are reflected in the revenue from our retail of open communication with our stakeholders, division which increased to 3.2 billion DKK comWe Buy Lots of Toys which is essential to our continued business. • Finding alternative, more environmentally pared to 2.8 billion DKK in 2009/2010. Despite the economic recession we are pleased to have friendly packaging options. We buy our toys and other products for children Supporting Sustainability welcomed even more customers in our stores. • Establishing a baseline for energy consumpfrom either our offices in Denmark or in Hong Kong. Our basic idea is to buy the right toys, at At TOP-TOY, we want to work strategically with tion. In our wholesale division K.E. Mathiasen (KEM), the right level of quality and at the right time we have completed our strategy to become the sustainability by integrating social and environand price. In this report, you can read more about how far leading brand house in the Nordic. Effective Janmental concerns into our business operations. we have come, how we want to drive sustainuary 1 2011, KEM became distributor of Mattel’s TOP-TOY does not have all the answers, but we In terms of value, about 50% of our products ability forward and how we plan to better inteportfolio of branded products. The partnership are working to continuously improve our perforare bought from our Hong Kong office. We colgrate sustainability into our business operations. with Mattel has strengthened our market capamance to better meet and exceed the expectalaborate with suppliers globally to ensure that bilities and we expect continuous growth going tions of our stakeholders. our products are produced in factories in comforward. The revenue for the wholesale division pliance with human and labour rights. Local amounted to 829 million DKK compared to 754 We will also continue to safeguard the integmanagement and supervision of our suppliers million DKK in 2009/10. rity of the UN Global Compact by living up to brings with it efficiency and effectiveness in the membership requirements, participating in terms of resources and improvement of local This year’s after tax profit was 128 million DKK events and promoting the initiative. In addition conditions. compared to 163 million DKK in 2009/2010. Our we will continue to build a growing knowledge financial performance is influenced by a rise in base of corporate practices to promote dialogue buying prices and exchange rate fluctuations. Peter Gjørup and Lars Gjørup. and learning by identifying, implementing and OUR WORLD OF TOYS INTRODUCTION 0 7 TOP-TOY is a family-owned and -operated business whose end-consumers are families with young children. Our business is to sell toys and other child related products for children. To do that, we take part in a global industry in a dynamic business environment. The industry, as all industries, has an impact on various stakeholders, as well as on the natural environment. Challenges in the Toy Industry the toys industry requires that all stakeholders acTOP-TOY is a member of the ICTI Technical AdviLEVEL OF STAKEHOLDER CONCERN sory Council, which is established to advise and 3 tively participate in improving social, ethical and TOP-TOP is a relatively small Danish company and environmental standards. support the ICTI CARE Process on technical issues. HIGH 8 we work in developing countries, such as China, 6 2 where we often face challenges related to differWorking together in the Toy Industry Our stakeholders ences in ways of conducting business. Examples 5 9 include different expectations to quality standIn general, the toy industry has developed a comOur stakeholders count a wide range of na12 MEDIUM ards, requirements to workers’ rights and issues mon compliance system to address the most reltional and international regulators, customers, 1 10 related to corruption. Due to TOP-TOY’s small size evant human and labour rights issues. This has employees, business associations, NGOs, and busi7 in the global toys industry we hold less than 1% been done through the International Council of ness partners. 11 of the global market for toys and for other child reToys Industry (ICTI), which is known as the ICTI lated products it is even less we must strike a balCare Process. The process includes provisions on Prioritising which Challenges to Tackle First ance between participating in the global industry overtime work, minimum age and focus on health and promoting our values and business conduct. and safety. The ICTI Care Process is a popular certiLOW Assessing materiality implies finding which issues 4 fication body for toys factories about 80% of the are currently most important to key stakeholders, LOW MEDIUM HIGH The very nature of the toys industry also poses factories that produce toys for TOP-TOY have the as well as identifying emerging issues and inveschallenges in terms of sustainability due to a high ICTI certificate. tigating how these issues can affect the success LEVEL OF IMPACT ON TOP-TOY degree of seasonal fluctuation in demand. The of TOP-TOY. The materiality process, therefore, inChristmas season puts a lot of pressure on the toy Other controversial issues include how the indusvolves a stakeholder analysis based on interviews industry. As an added feature, popularity of toys try contributes to the fight against corruption and with key stakeholders, as well as a business impact is increasingly defined by fashion and changing the level of commitment to protecting the natural analysis. To ensure an open an honest dialog with trends; these are influenced by cinema movies and TV programs. Combined, the underlying nature of environment. stakeholders, we commissioned a consultant to ASPECT ISSUE conduct in-depth interviews. The use of an external consultant guaranteed anonymity and high Factory Compliance 1 Lead Time Factory compliance includes many aspects of workers rights including human response rates. The materiality assessment was and labour rights. Working proactively to prevent the abuse of the workers OUR STAKEHOLDERS A LITTLE ABOUT THEM READ MORE conducted in November 2010. rights includes adapting a business planning schedule to accommodate in2 Human and Labour Rights creased production lead time. An increased production lead time allows facEmployees Employees expect good jobs with a good working environment and a focus on We Sell Lots of Toys As part of the materiality assessment ten intertories to better plan production and human resources. the well being of the individual. Employees also expect a stimulating environment Page 18 views with external stakeholders representing that allows for personal development. suppliers, peers, NGOs and the authorities were Product Responsibility 3 Product Safety conducted, as well as 30 consumers were interProduct responsibility addresses whether legislation, rules and laws are folConsumers Consumers and customers have expectations to the play value and the safety of Creativity and Design lowed in regards to product safety. Additionally, it addresses whether a toy 4 Eco-Labelled viewed through exit-interviews after having visitadds value to a child’s development and positive childhood experience. and Customers our products, as well as the conditions under which they are produced. Toys in Play ed one of your retail stores. During the interviews, Products Eco-labelled products address customer’s demand for environmentally friendPages 10 and 22 stakeholders explained their demands and expecly products made from organic material and sustainably harvested wood. 5 Educational Value tations in relation to sustainability at TOP-TOY. Suppliers Our suppliers and licensors expect mutual respect and dialogue, leading to We Buy Lots of Toys and Licensors long-term relationships. Our business would not function without good business Page 12 Furthermore, 20 employees in the retail organisaEmployees 6 Work Environment relationships with our suppliers and licensors. tion were interviewed. The employees for interEmployee well-being is a core element in securing motivated and loyal staff. Working systematically with job satisfaction is part of securing a good work7 Business Integrity views were selected to cover different manageing environment. In addition a well defined employee Code of Conduct definNon-Governmental NGOs are particularly aware of the potential impact TOP-TOY may have on its surHow Toys are Made rial levels within TOP-TOY’s organisation, as well as ing the expected behaviour for employees is reducing the likelihood of uninOrganisations rounding communities and environment. Toys on the Move geographical locations. tended misconduct. Pages 14 and 16 The results from the interviews provided a gross Communication 8 Communication Regulators Regulators have a direct impact on our business and expect compliance to laws Safe Toys list of potential material issues. This gross list was Communication to parents must be open and honest, if a company want to be perceived as transparent in its operations. Additionally, any uncertainty as to 9 Transparency and regulations. This is best achieved through participation and dialogue. Page 20 consolidated into a final list of six aspects coverthe ethics of marketing towards children and other issues can be addressed in ing twelve different issues. The different issues a constructive dialogue with relevant stakeholders. 10 Marketing were debated and prioritised by the management towards Children Business Associations The global toys industry includes various different actors and relies on coopHow Toys are Made group at TOP-TOY including 30 managers – at a eration, information sharing and joint action to improve conditions globally. Safe Toys workshop. Examples of such cooperation include the ICTI Care Process and the European Pages 14 and 20 Environment and Climate Change 11 Environment All business operations have an impact on the environment. This includes enand Committee for the Standardisation of Toys. Based on the outcome of the workshop and the inergy cosumption and the use of packaging material for retail and transportaClimate Change terviews, the individual issues have been evaluated tion packaging. Shareholders Our shareholders expect long-term profitable growth, they own the company TOP-TOY at a Glance according to stakeholder concern as well as their and determine the future direction of TOP-TOY through strategic and financial Page 8 level of impact on TOP-TOY. The issues have been Market Position 12 Competition priorities. consolidated into a materiality map, and we use this Market position concerns aspects related to competition or the lack thereof map to priorities which challenges to tackle first. and related laws such as the European Competition Law. TOP-TOY AT A GLANCE INTRODUCTION 0 9 The nature of our business is to sell toys and other products to children across the Nordic countries and Germany. We sell toys through our retail channels BR and TOYS”R”US, as well as through our wholesale division K.E. Mathiasen (KEM). KEM has been part of the TOP-TOY family since 2009. The TOP-TOY Group’s financial performance is sound The result is affected by a continuous focus on GROUP KEY FIGURES AND FINANCIAL RATIOS QR CODE and we are confident in the long-term investments we have been able to make during the recent recesefficiency in the business units as well as an ongoing optimisation of the product lines. On the 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 sion. Generally, the return on investment is satisfacother hand, significant resources have been put 5 years’ key figures in 1,000 DKK: tory and we are excited to benefit from this in the into organisational development in order to foyears to come. cus the business units and strengthen the supRevenue 2,580,394 3,025,739 2,935,150 3,593,130 3,954,110 port functions. 2010/2011 was a challenging financial year due EBITDA 255,844 316,222 262,959 362,718 311,352 Watch one of to a modest growth in most of our markets, Throughout the financial year we have worked our Managing but the TOP-TOY Group has managed to generintensively to integrate KEM into TOP-TOY. This EBIT 192,227 238,064 181,167 273,574 216,608 Directors, ate an 8.3 % return on invested capital (ROIC). has been coupled with an organisational reLars Gjørup structuring for a more streamlined company where our divisions are more specialised and Profit for the year 144,307 144,726 99,300 162,708 128,223 explain the vision for efficient. TOP-TOY. REVENUE Balance sheet total 1,835,325 2,228,689 2,100,632 2,769,513 2,891,484 Billion DKK In KEM, we have completed our strategy to be4,5 come the leading brand house in the Nordic. EfEquity 840,698 963,771 1,029,985 1,180,534 1,265,851 4 fective January 1 2011, KEM became distributor 3,5 of Mattel’s portfolio of branded products. The 3 Number of employees 1,534 1,792 1,805 2,128 2,261 2,5 partnership with Mattel has strengthened our 2 market capabilities and we expect continuous 1,5 growth going forward. We also focus on develNumber of stores 217 262 264 273 290 1 oping a product portfolio of other child related 0,5 products than toys; this includes products such Key financial ratios: 0 as home furnishings, lamps, drink ware, and ap2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 parel as well as other exciting categories. It is Operating margin 7.4 % 7.9 % 6.2 % 7.6 % 5.5 % a strategic decision to work on improving our non-toys selection, since we see a great interest Return on invested capital 11.8 % 12.4 % 8.8 % 12.2 % 8.3 % PROFIT FOR THE YEAR in these products. Million DKK 180 Equity ratio 45.8 % 43.2 % 49.0 % 42.6 % 43.8 % 160 We have also opened 19 new stores including 140 four BR webshops, which brings us to a total of 120 290 stores. 100 DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS 2010/11 80 The broader range of products in both retail and OTHER ASSETS • 24% LAND AND BUILDINGS • 42% 60 40 wholesale and a growing number of shops are 20 the main causes for the growth in inventories. 0 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 The 43.8% equity ratio underlines the fact that TOP-TOY is sound and solid and it gives us financial flexibility and enables us to act on new busiRETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL INVENTORIES • 34% ness opportunities in the future. % NOTE: Total assets in 2010/11: 2.9 billion DKK 14 12 10 GET TO KNOW TOP-TOY 8 6 If you are new to TOP-TOY, you can read more about the group on page 26-31. This includes 4 a general introduction to the group, as well as descriptions of our retail channels BR and 2 TOYS”R”US and our wholesale division K.E. Mathiasen (KEM). In this chapter you can also 0 read about the people employed in TOP-TOY. 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 CREATIVITY AND DESIGN A TOY JOURNEY 1 1 We sell many different toys and products for children through our retail and wholesale divisions. When developing, adapting or selecting toys for our customers, it is important to us that the toys are fun, educational and do not harm the environment unnecessarily, as well as being safe! Fun and Educational Toys logical and cultural needs of present and future generations. DANSPIL® Safari First of all, we aim to provide toys, games and School Board Game other products for children of different ages to Retail Packaging play with and enjoy throughout their childhood. The DANSPIL Safari School Board Game Retail packaging is necessary as it protects the is designed for young We work to select and design educational toys, product from being damaged during transporand in that way, we contribute to children’s posichildren to learn about tation, it is also used for customer information wildlife in a fun way. tive play experience and development. For exand labelling purposes as required by law. Howample, products like child walkers, shape sorters Board Games intended ever, we have an increasing focus on collabofor use in play by and basic memory games are stimulating and ration with suppliers to reduce the amount of fun. Our product teams across our locations children under the packaging as much as possible. age of 14 are legally continuously work with selected product lines to improve the educational and learning value defined as toys and are of our offerings. Other products are selected therefore required to simply because they are popular and lots of fun. follow the European Toy For example, we sometimes license properties Safety Directive. Our from companies such as Disney, Cartoon NetDANSPIL Safari School, work, Lucasfilm, Sanrio and others to offer toys WOODEN PRODUCTS FROM SUPPLIERS which is designed for with popular characters that children recognise MANAGED BY THE OFFICE IN HONG KONG children from age 4, Generally speaking, we work with three catfollows all Toy Safety egories determining the origin of toys and and like. Directive requirements. other child related products. The first relates to TOP-TOY Supplier products we develop and design, these are our Safety in the Design Phase brands brands Total own brands such as KIDS-WOOD, PLAY2LEARN, BELLINO and FLEXI-TRAX. The second category TOP-TOY only sells toys and other related prodrelates to toys and products purchased as a ucts to children that, as a minimum requireKIDS-WOOD® concept but customised and adapted to our loment, comply with applicable laws and regulaAll wooden products Total number cal markets, an example could be our DANSPIL tions such as the European Toy Safety Directive. of wooden products 128 63 191 Baby Walker Safari School Board Game. The third category This gives parents and children assurance that relates to selecting “ready-to-sell” products deThe KIDS-WOOD toys sold through TOP-TOY’s retail and wholebaby walker, a toy signed, developed and produced by our supplisale divisions fulfil or exceed all legal requireTotal number of wooden ers. The majority of our products fall under this for toddlers learning ments, with regards to the safe use of chemical Wooden products products in either FSC or 84 7 91 third category. in either FSC rubber wood to walk has been substances, as well as mechanical safety of toys. developed under our or rubberwood Safety is thought into the very first phases of KIDS-WOOD brand. Some of the toys and products we develop are product design and development. sold under TOP-TOY’s own brands and regisPercentage of all wooden Most of our KIDS-WOOD tered trademarks, which makes these products products in either FSC 66 % 11 % 48 % products – like the extra special to us. Environmental Concerns or rubber wood baby walker are made EXAMPLES OFTOP-TOY PRODUCT SAFETY from environmentally REQUIREMENTS EXCEEDING THE LAW One of the areas where we can make a signififriendly wood such cant impact on protecting the environment is Percentage of order quantity as certified wood or Perfumed We only carry such products selectively, and in all in the design of toys sold under private label of all wooden products in 69 % 9% 62 % rubber wood. Rubber either FSC or rubber wood and scented products instances they must be tested for common allergenic brands. We are in the process of planning how to wood is seen as a substances. We only accept the use of scents if it has an best incorporate sustainability into our own key good choice of raw important functional value. product brands. With sustainability as a product NOTE: ”Wooden products” includes all products where the major component(s) is made of wood. Data from 2010/11. material, since it has a characteristic, we aim to increase the integrity of minimal impact on the Preservatives We do not accept products such as markers, paints, environment compared our products by evaluating safety requirements, make-up or modelling compounds that contain preservatives, which are linked to known allergic reactions or the environmental impact, as well as social and ethito traditionally release of formaldehyde. cal compliance for our products. harvested wood. We Phthalates in toys TOYS OR NON-TOYS? have a goal of 100% We do not accept any kind of phthalates in toys. We are focusing on phasing-in wood from sustainably harvested sustainably harvested forests for our wooden wood in this product Formaldehyde We set strict restrictions for formaldehyde in The definition of toys is provided by the European Commission as: “products designed or inproducts. We apply international certification line. Currently, 94% of textiles and glued wooden products. tended, whether or not exclusively, for use in play by children under the age of 14.” All toys the items are made standards to ensure that the products are in fact must follow toy specific regulations such as the European Toy Safety Directive. Non-toy prodChlorine We carry alternatives to chlorine products made from wood from well-managed forests. from sustainably ucts may be subject to other regulations, including the General Product Safety Directive. harvested wood. in our pool care offerings. This helps ensure that forests around the world are managed to meet the social, economic, ecoWE BUY LOTS OF TOYS A TOY JOURNEY 1 3 When we have decided on a great product that we want to sell in our retail stores and through our wholesale channels, we start our purchasing process. This means that we make sure suppliers and factories live up to our standards before we buy anything from them. We do not own or operate production facilities SUPPLIERS AND FACTORIES and therefore we focus on creating long term MANAGED BY THE OFFICE IN HONG KONG DANSPIL® Safari relationships with our suppliers and selected School Board Game factories for production of our own brands. We The Safari School Board 2009/10 2010/11 also work with licensors such as Disney, Cartoon Game was bought as Network and Lucasfilm in the process of choosa concept from one of ing the right factories. Number of suppliers 254 261 our suppliers, and we have further adapted If a supplier fails to live up to our standard rethe design and added quirements, TOP-TOY can choose to stop negoNumber of factories 468 472 educational features tiations with the supplier, likewise a supplier can to better cater to our choose to not continue the compliance process Number of new factories N/A 67 Nordic markets. Safari of submitting documentation and signing up to School is sold under our terms and conditions for various reasons. our DANSPIL brand in BR and TOYS”R”US, as Suppliers usually own intellectual property well as to wholesale rights to products and can sell the same prodcustomers in the Nordic uct to different buyers such as TOP-TOY. Often, a countries. Choosing the Right Suppliers Facing Cultural Differences Internationally Playing by the Rules QR CODE supplier does not own factories, but outsource customers’ orders to them. Therefore, a suppliWe have a structured way of integrating new ers’ factory base constantly changes. Sourcing in emerging economies such as China TOP-TOY is in the process of developing a comsuppliers into our supply base through our often requires that a company navigates differpany Code of Conduct to address issues of sigpurchasing process which involves reviewing A single factory may work for more than one ent ethical standards and corrupt business pracnificant importance for us as a member of the working conditions and documentation. It also supplier in order to secure a constant level of tices. global toys industry. The Code of Conduct will functions as a mechanism for continuous evaluorders. For that reason, if a factory fails to meet help our employees identify and deal with ethiation of existing suppliers. The process provides our requirements it may affect more than one Corruption and bribery is widespread and accal dilemmas that arise from running our busiWatch our an objective framework for assessment and product and more than one supplier. cepted in many of the countries where toys ness, and thus reduces the likelihood of uninProduct Manager, safeguards against the risk of unqualified and are produced. As a point of departure, TOP-TOY tended misconduct; this includes guidance on KIDS-WOOD® Hanne Hilstroem, unethical suppliers. Our suppliers are either Manufacturing in China does not accept any form of corruption or bribhow to interact with third parties, how to work managed by our office in Hong Kong or by our ery under any circumstance. against corruption and how to avoid conflict of Baby Walker visit a supplier in China, looking offices in Denmark depending on the supplier’s Estimates suggest that the vast majority of all interest. We believe that for new exciting location. toys – up to 70% in the world are assembled in TOP-TOY’s factory compliance inspectors have long term supplier KIDS-WOOD items. China. The manufacturing environment in China a long history of integrity and honesty. Our huThe Code of Conduct will also explain and clarify relationships, along is dynamic and ever changing. New factories are man ressource proces is highly selective when some common situations that we might face on with other benefits, opened, others are closed down or transferred hiring new inspectors to ensure they are the a day to day basis. Such issues and situations reduce the risk of to new owners, some change addresses, and right people for the job. However, when we first may originate internally, within our value chain corruption and bribery. others are not real factories, but “show case facset up our buying office in Hong Kong in 1992, or relate to our interactions with external stakeFor example, our three TOP-TOY LICENSORS tories”, presented to buyers to give a good imwe had to terminate a manager for accepting a holders. suppliers of the KIDSpression of the working environment. Having a bribe. WOOD line have been buying office in Hong Kong is therefore a great The new Code of Conduct will affect the ways with us for a long time, advantage for TOP-TOY. We have local people we deal with colleagues, customers, suppliers, one of them since 1992. employed that posses the cultural background business partners, regulators and other memGenerally, we aim to to work directly with suppliers and factories, enbers of society. have long standing SUPPLIERS suring that these meet TOP-TOY’s standards and business relationships expectations. with all our suppliers. CLOSE COLLABORATION WITH LICENSORS There are many reasons for the concentration of the toys industry in China. The infrastructure in We work closely with licensors such as Disney, Cartoon Network, Lucasfilm and Sanrio at the country ensures efficiency of logistics, and all stages of design, development and manufacturing, as well as during marketing and the large number of suppliers and factories enpromotion of the final products. We ensure that the factory compliance standards of our FACTORIES sure a pool of knowledge and experience for licensors are applied to the manufacturing of licensed products. high quality products. HOW TOYS ARE MADE A TOY JOURNEY 1 5 TOP-TOY does not own any factories and in most cases, we therefore rely on our suppliers to select factories for production. This does not mean that we do not take responsibility for social and ethical conditions at those factories, and despite good selection criteria, we face many dilemmas in our work. Our Approach to Factory Compliance on a product’s country of origin. In low risk coungal minimum wages and instances where childDANSPIL® Safari tries, we do not currently audit factories due to or forced labourers are found. If the factory does TOP-TOY expects all its suppliers and the factothe low risk of non-compliance with our Factory not eliminate all zero-tolerance issues they will School Board Game ries they work with, to meet a set of standards. Compliance Standards. In high risk countries, be terminated permanently from TOP-TOY’s facExcessive overtime We have outlined our minimum requirements factories can be pre-approved for production if tory base. During 2010/11 TOP-TOY found 32 work is often a problem in our Factory Compliance Standards, which they hold a recognised certificate. factories with one or more zero-tolerance issues, in manufacturing, follow the ICTI Care Process. However, we have of these, 20 were terminated. especially if workers live found that demanding compliance to minimum A Good Supply Base at factory dormitories; requirements is of little value unless we know HANDLING OF ZERO-TOLERANCE ISSUES since daily life often whether they are followed or not. For this reaAt TOP-TOY, we accept a number of different cerFOR FACTORIES MANAGED BY THE OFFICE IN HONG KONG becomes all about work son, we have a dedicated Factory Compliance tifications and standards. The most common toy and sleep. The factory Team that operates out of our Hong Kong ofindustry certificate is the ICTI Care Process. The 2010/11 that produces our Safari fice; in 2010/11 our team verified that the 472 ICTI Care Process is an industry specific ethical School Board Game is factories, producing toys for our 261 suppliers certification scheme for toy manufacturers and Factories with one or more recognised for its effort managed by the office in Hong Kong met our retailers. 32 zero-tolerance issues for minimising overtime minimum requirements. work and emphasising In addition, we accept the Business Social ComFactories terminated 20 social activities. Our Our Factory Compliance Team evaluates factopliance Initiative (BSCI) Standard, which is an inidue to lack of improvements latest visit to the factory On the Factory Floor ries according to a risk assessment model based tiative for companies committed to improving Factories de-activated and waiting for in 2011 confirmed that working conditions in the global supply chain. further verification on the effectiveness of 7 this is a well-managed We are very aware of the many challenges in We also accept SA8000 certificates, the most improvement actions factory of more than the manufacturing industry in countries such FACTORY CERTIFICATION USED BY SUPPLIERS widely recognized global standard for managNumber of factories re-activated 10,000 employees. The as China. The major issues related to working MANAGED BY THE OFFICE IN HONG KONG ing human rights in the workplace. If a factory after having satisfactory results 5 factory also holds the conditions are minimum wages and excessive does not have any of the above certificates, our due to improvement actions ICTI certificate. overtime work. Factory Compliance Team will conduct a TOP2009/10 2010/11 TOY Audit, which must be passed in order to When it comes to overtime work, we experience produce for us. We conducted 134 TOP-TOY AuExpanding Our Scope that factory owners have difficulties meeting redits in 2010/11. Number of factories 468 472 quirements for the amount of legal overtime as Currently, TOP-TOY’s Factory Compliance ProKIDS-WOOD® defined by national and international law. TOPIf, during a TOP-TOY audit, we find non-compligramme applies to all suppliers managed by Baby Walker TOY specifies how much overtime workers are Factories holding an ICTI certificate 357 381 ance issues at a factory, we will work with the the office in Hong Kong. The next step in rollallowed in our Factory Compliance Standards supplier and factory to improve conditions. In ing out our Factory Compliance Programme is Wood factories often which ensure workers’ well-being and the reFactories audited cases where a factory does not show improveto include products sourced from our suppliers have difficulties living duction of risk regarding safety and low quality against other standards* 34 6 managed by our offices in Europe. This is our up to good health and ments or refuses to make improvements, it will products resulting from fatigue. The main chalbe de-activated from our list of active factories method of assuring that all products we sell are safety standards due to lenge of enforcing our overtime requirements Factories audited dust, severe noise and QR CODE is that factory owners claim that their workers by TOP-TOY 46 48 until having made necessary improvements. produced under conditions that meet or exceed dangerous production This means that we will not accept our suppliers our minimum requirements and to ensure uniwill be dissatisfied and find other work if they form standards across the company. machinery. Our Factories in low to use that factory for producing our products. are not allowed to earn extra money by work12 12 KIDS-WOOD product risk countries In severe cases of non-compliance, often reing overtime. On the other hand, a lack of labour suppliers are attentive lated to zero-tolerance issues, our Factory law enforcement also poses a challenge to comto health and safety of Factories which 19 25 Compliance Team will suspend TOP-TOY’s busitheir factory workers plying with our standards. have not been audited ness relationship with the factory immediately. and make significant Zero-tolerance issues include refusal to pay leinvestments in stateWatch our In addition we see problems related to health NOT AUDITED • 5% ICTI • 81% of-the art equipment. Factory Compliance and safety at the work place including limited We have inspected all Manager, training and lack of personal protection equipMIGRANT WORKERS the factories and we are Wydy Ling, ment. The use of child labour in toy manufacLOW RISK COUNTRY • 3% confident that worker’s inspect a factory turing is relatively limited since it is treated as Many factory workers are in fact migrant workers, especially in China, which counts 150 health and safety is a in China. a zero-tolerance issue by most global buyers, million migrant workers. Often, migrant workers find work at factories in order to save up high priority. such as TOP-TOY. TOP-TOY money for their future, such as establishing a family upon their return home. AUDIT • 10% OTHER STANDARDS • 1% More information on how we work with Factory Compliance is available on our website top-toy.com/sustainability. * Other standards include suppliers’ own standards and certificates. As of July 2010 TOP-TOY no longer accepts other standards than ICTI, BSCI or SA8000. TOYS ON THE MOVE A TOY JOURNEY 1 7 There are many aspects involved in the process of selling toys and other products to children; one of the more complex ones is the logistics involved. Here, the primary areas of concern are timing and occupational health and safety for our employees. sold during other seasons than Christmas we Transportation Packaging REPORTED INJURIES IN DENMARK DANSPIL® Safari have similar business planning schedules. The packaging of our products is an important Year* Distribution Centre in Copenhagen Stores in Denmark** School Board Game The seasonal fluctuations in the toy industry way of making sure that products are not damOur Safari School board 2006 4 20 create peak work loads throughout the supaged when they reach our stores and wholegame and the box ply chain. At the factory level, this can lead to sale customers. Currently, there is no practical 2007 6 36 it comes in is made excessive use of overtime. Over the past coucost-effective alternative to ensuring undam2008 10 44 from heavy cardboard. ple of years, TOP-TOY has adapted its business aged products than to use cardboard wrapping 2009 8 72 Some pulp and planning schedule which has led to longer lead which, from an environmental perspective, is paper manufacturers times. Longer lead times allow our suppliers and not optimal. In our BR and TOYS”R”US stores, we 2010 4 52 collaborate with municipal services to recycle as purchase raw materials the factories they work with to plan producthat come from tion outside the normal peak season. Factory much transportation cardboard as possible. NOTE: During 2010/11 we had 180 people (equal to 115 full time positions) at our Distribution Centre in Copenhagen. At our stores endangered rainforests, management can thereby better plan human in Denmark, we had 2,528 people (equal to 692 full time positions). which has damaging resources; reducing overtime work and work Occupational Health and Safety * This data is only available on calendar year. ** The number of stores in Denmark increased from 102 in 2006 impact on the natural related stress for factory workers. Previously, to 107 in 2010. environment. We we have operated with deliveries made 30-45 Occupational health and safety is a priority issue for us. At our distribution centres, a number of condemn illegal days from the point of purchase, now we operharvesting of natural ate with deliveries made within 90-100 days. In our operations are automated but there are still times when employees have to carry products resources and are Timing is Essential combination with our improved forecasting, our WORK RELATED INJURY from one place to another. In our stores it is ofincreasingly choosing suppliers can better plan the production proIN DANISH STORES BY CATEGORY ten not possible to install automated systems environmentally One of the major issues in our industry is timing. cess and associated workload. to relieve employees from carrying products conscious suppliers. Our Timing relates to when products are ready to be 2009 2010 Type because of the location or layout of the store. DANSPIL Safari School sold in stores. Not surprisingly, the toy industry’s Toys Moving In Therefore, we have ongoing e-learning pro9 11 Falling, slipping or tripping supplier is a conscious peak season is Christmas, which means that toy grammes aimed at educating all relevant staff supplier and has several production has huge seasonal fluctuations. When our orders have been produced, the fin8 4 Lifting technique on lifting techniques. certificates and awards ished goods are loaded into containers and 36 7 Violence or threats* for environmental At TOP-TOY, we have a business planning schedtransported to Denmark. It takes around five The external warehouses we use in Europe all 4 3 Use of ladder management including ule to ensure products are ready for sale in stores weeks to ship a container from Asia to Europe. live up to related labour laws and for our own for Christmas. Products produced in Asia have ISO14001, FSC Chain of Upon arrival, after having cleared customs, the distribution centre in Copenhagen, we have de1 0 Stress to be shipped in August in order to reach stores Custody certificate and container is transported to our distribution cenveloped special operational health and safety in time. Therefore, we start to select products, 0 9 Falling on stairs the Hong Kong Green tre in Greve close to Copenhagen or in Brabrand precautions for our pregnant employees. suppliers and factories in October, November Mark. close to Aarhus or one of our approved external 11 13 Handling of products and December more than a year in advance. warehouse facilities. During the high season, we employ extra staff Throughout January, February and March we 3 5 Other in our distribution centres, as well as in the BR work with our suppliers on forecasting. In April A large quantity of our products are also transand TOYS”R”US stores to relieve employees from 72 52 Total and May we place the final order with the supported from European based suppliers directly stress and to serve our customers in a satisfac* Injury incident report is completed for all employees on duty in the plier, thereafter production starts and factories to our distribution centres. Since airfreight is tory way. store at the time of violence or threat, no matter if they have been KIDS-WOOD® make delivery in July and August. For products an expensive method of transportation and inaffected by the violence or threat or not. Baby Walker BUSINESS PLANNING SCHEDULE volves high levels of CO2 emissions, we strive However, no matter how hard one tries to avoid FOR CHRISTMAS PRODUCTS not to use this way of transporting our products. them, accidents still unfortunately happen from Our KIDS-WOOD time to time. TOP-TOY only has occupational products are classic October – December Selecting products, suppliers and factories Toys Moving Out health and safety data available for Denmark, products that we but we are in the process of creating a uniformed carry for many years, January – March Working on forecasting with suppliers At our distribution centres, the individual store data collection system covering all employees. therefore we are able to April – May Placing final order with supplier deliveries are organised and loaded onto trucks spread out production June – August Production and sent off for distribution to all our stores LEAD TIME orders across the year throughout Northern Europe and to our wholeto avoid putting too July – August Delivery of final products sale customers. At Christmas, we also ship conLead time is the time that the factories have to produce an order. Reduced lead time typimuch pressure on our August – October Products transported from Asia tainers directly to our large stores, in that way we cally makes supply chain management more cost efficient but also increases risk of husuppliers in the peak by-pass the distribution centres; reducing the man and labour rights abuse. Longer lead time gives the suppliers and factories the ability season. October November Products ready for sale in the stores cost of reloading containers, as well as reducing to better plan their production. December Happy children receiving Christmas gifts the environmental impact of transportation. WE SELL LOTS OF TOYS A TOY JOURNEY 1 9 We sell lots of toys and other child related products to children through our different distribution channels. We sell toys through our BR and TOYS”R”US retail stores, and we sell toys through our wholesale divisions to our business-to-business customers. catalogues to our BR and TOYS”R”US customers. One example of how we are working on improvBeing a Trustworthy Partner DANSPIL® Safari We also design catalogues for our wholesale ing our advertising to children is related to the customers for their use and distribution. gender debate. In advertising, the gender deIt is important that our wholesale customers School Board Game bate focuses on how the genders are portrayed see us as a trustworthy business partner. For The board game is From an ethical perspective, marketing towards in their traditional roles versus more modern this reason we follow strict competition law and marketed in both our children is a sensitive issue, since children are roles. At TOP-TOY, we actively avoid stereotypmaintain strict information firewalls between retail and wholesale vulnerable and impressionable. Therefore, we ing the genders in traditional roles in our adverour retail and wholesale divisions. All relevant division, which pay special attention to this audience when tising and promotion material. Our guidelines, Employees are also trained to avoid participatrequires that we have advertising. We make sure that the advertising for example, ensure that girls are portrayed in ing in discussions about prohibited subjects so called “firewalls” message accurately portrays the features, qualactivity equally to boys. Thereby, we work to for example in the context of trade association in place to earn our ity and performance of our products and does inspire positive, educational and equal play for meetings. Other aspects related to how we conwholesale customer’s not contain any misleading statements. We also both genders. duct ourselves are further defined in our new trust and meet legal work to always conduct our marketing activities Code of Conduct. requirements. with honesty and fairness, and without putting Customer Satisfaction down competitors. Keeping our Employees We want all our retail and wholesale customers We continuously work to advertise in complito have a good experience when purchasing Besides offering our customers a good shopance with applicable regulations and best pracproducts from us. For our retail customers, we ping experience in our stores, we want our store Marketing towards Children tices, including voluntary industry codes. We are offer good service through our exchange policy employees to work in a good and safe environcurrently planning how to take a more proactive and we train our staff in Service Management to ment. With more than 6,000 people employed An important part of selling toys is marketstand in relation to marketing towards children, give customers a good shopping experience. throughout the year, we see it as an important ing and advertising to children. We advertise thereby contributing to best practice and good task to focus on their wellbeing and we do our through popular TVand radio channels and onmarketing ethics in our industry. High quality is key to us, we want children to best to act as a responsible employer. line banners. Every year we also send out printed have good play experiences with the products we sell. We work hard to avoid defective prodOur store managers meet regularly to exchange KIDS-WOOD® ucts by sharing information regarding claims best practices and experiences at local level. from both retail and wholesale customers with Once a year we conduct a Toy Summit. Our Toy Baby Walker FIVE YEAR OVERVIEW OF RECALLS OF TOYS SOLD BY TOP-TOY key suppliers. In this way, we make sure that our Summit is attended by approximately 350 emWe would like a next delivery of a given product is improved. ployees to learn about new products, trends, product range that October – December Responsible Party and Product Year Issue Informant This quality cycle has been – and still is – a key service management, and product safety. offers customers source of continuous product improvement, an environmentally JanuaryTOP-TOY – Marchpublic recalls thereby meeting our customer’s expectations At TOP-TOY, we work systematically with emfriendly alternative to April –Kitty Hello MayDrinking bottle 2011 Small parts Internal control of us. ployee satisfaction and make significant investtraditional products. June – August ments in training seminars. Approximately 500 Our baby walker is Chemistry kit for children 2010 Ingredient banned in Norway Authorities, Norway If we learn that one of our products is non-comemployees across the organisation including all made from rubber July August Kung– Fu Playset 2010 Phthalates and loose suction cup Authorities, Finland pliant we will make a recall. We will coordinate Store Managers have attended our employee wood, which is grown September – October Wooden Puzzle with Animal Sounds 2010 Small parts Authorities, Denmark product recalls and sales-stops with the manudevelopment seminars aiming to directly influunder the Tree+ facturers or licensors with whom we deal. Likeence employees’ feeling of worth and wellbeing. programme. TOP-TOY November Floor Puzzle 2010 Small parts Authorities, Denmark wise, we always actively cooperate with authoriOur development seminars focus on areas such is a participant of the December Disney Princess Dress 2010 Drawstring Authorities, Finland ties when a product is investigated to ensure a as commitment and loyalty towards TOP-TOY, Tree+ programme smooth product analysis. Of course, we aim to productivity, quality of work and competences. where we plant two October – December Dr. Dreadful Make your own candy 2007 Inaccurate usage instructions Authorities, Denmark have zero recalls. trees per tree used for January –Beads Bindeez March 2007 Risk of poisoning if swallowed Authorities, Australia our products. April – May Supplier public recalls June – August Mattel – Fischer Price 2010 Small parts Supplier MARKETING TOWARDS CHILDREN July Hörby– August Swing 2009 Swing impact and entrapment hazard Supplier Marketing towards children must be conducted in a responsible manner and be sensitive Megabrands Magtastic and Magnetix Jr. 2008 Loose magnets Supplier to the fact that children are easy to impress. For example, we work to never monitor and target consumer behaviour without their knowledge, or to conceal that TOP-TOY is the November Mattel – Cars 2007 Lead paint Supplier sender of its advertising messages. This is increasingly a priority area as the multitude of Mattel – Polly Pocket 2006 Loose magnets Supplier marketing channels become more sophisticated and embedded in children’s daily lives. SAFE TOYS A TOY JOURNEY 2 1 Selling safe and durable toys has always been a key priority for TOP-TOY. We want parents to know that their children can safely play with toys we sell, and we want our wholesale customers to see us as a reliable supplier supporting the reputation of their brands. prior to shipment in order to control product QUALITY ASSURANCE PRIOR TO PRODUCTION, MANAGED BY THE OFFICE IN HONG KONG design and critical safety requirements. Quality DANSPIL® Safari inspections include physical tests such as drop QUALITY ASSURANCE DESCRIPTION 2009/10 2010/11 School Board Game tests to determine durability, functional tests to Number of new products veri• We verify that new products carry correct 2,127 1,781 fied with regard to labelling and complete labels according to Board games have small determine that the product works as it should, products products as well as safety compliance tests to make sure and documentation European and Nordic legal standards, parts and pieces such as warnings and any other relevant dice and playing pieces, that the product is age appropriate. information to consumers. all such products must • We verify validity of product certificates. In the 2000’s, we broadened our scope for the be labelled with the Quality Assurance Team as we started to perstandard warning Number of new products • We conduct in-depth assessment of all 701 501 form detailed product tests before an order was verified with regard to safety new TOP-TOY branded products in order to products products specifying unsuitability placed as part of our product approval process. standards specify and/or verify that the products for children under the Our broadened scope, led to the TOP-TOY Group meet or exceed relevant safety standards age of three. earning a reputation among its Asian suppliers and do not contain any harmful chemicals. TOP-TOY always advises for stringent quality requirements, which ex• We test product functionality and durability. customers to buy ceeded many of the legal standards. age appropriate toys QUALITY CONTROL DURING PRODUCTION, MANAGED BY THE OFFICE IN HONG KONG as indicated on the Chemical Safety QUALITY CONTROL PROCESS DESCRIPTION 2009/10 2010/11 packaging. It is never safe to disregard age Increased Awareness Besides looking at the physical safety requireNumber of process inspections Number of times the TOP-TOY Quality 183 86 Assurance Team performed quality inspections inspections warnings. ments, TOP-TOY also pays great attention to control during mass-production. Over the past decades, public awareness of controlling and identifying chemical ingredients product safety has increased tremendously in and risks in the final products. This area is reguEurope and, particularly, in the Nordic counlated by laws and regulations, but in some cases QUALITY CONTROL AFTER PRODUCTION IS COMPLETED, MANAGED BY THE OFFICE IN HONG KONG tries. When we ask our stakeholders about what sustainability issues are important to them, the TOP-TOY exceeds regulatory standards when we QUALITY CONTROL PROCESS DESCRIPTION 2009/10 2010/11 consider the standards insufficient. majority will mention product safety. We aim to Number of factories visited Number of factories TOP-TOY Quality As402 375 be a market leader in product safety, in order to surance Team visited after mass production factories factories Some Asian toy factories have limited knowlwas completed for final product quality meet our stakeholders’ expectations of being a edge about chemical safety. Nor do they have control prior to delivery. trustworthy company selling safe products for the ability to develop and manufacture safe KIDS-WOOD® We Sell Lots of Toys children. products. TOP-TOY developed capabilities to Number of times factories were Number of times TOP-TOY Quality Assur874 803 Page 18 visited ance Team visited a factory after mass visits visits Baby Walker manage chemical safety when we realised the production was completed to conduct final Raising the Bar for Safety industry’s control of chemical ingredients was product quality control prior to delivery. Our KIDS-WOOD inadequate, and that the risk of buying and sellNumber of product inspections Number of times a factory completed an 5,316 6,228 Baby Walker has Our systematic work with product safety started ing harmful products was unacceptably high. order and TOP-TOY Quality Assurance Team inspections inspections gone through a in 1991, where the European Union adopted performed final product quality inspection stricter toy safety regulations. Despite our efcomprehensive test of the order. Inspections can be either inQR CODE forts to sell the highest quality toys, TOP-TOY The New Toy Safety Directive factory or in-house inspections. programme including experienced that a number of the products we drop tests for durability, A new European Toy Safety Directive entered Number of in-factory product Number of product quality inspections our 4,109 4,408 purchased did not meet the new standards. inspections Quality Assurance Team performed in the inspections inspections torque tests to warrant Therefore, in 1992, TOP-TOY decided to estabinto force in July 2011, which means that toy factory after mass production was comthat loose parts do not lish the office in Hong Kong. The idea was to manufacturers, importers and retailers have pleted prior to delivery. unfasten easily as well be close to the Chinese factories producing a been made accountable for documenting that as colour migration Number of in-house product Number of product quality inspections large quantity of our toys, and in that way better toys sold are safe and compliant. Some of the inspections our Quality Assurance Team performed 1,207 1,820 tests. Furthermore, control product safety. From a practical point of biggest changes are related to an increased rein-house after mass production was cominspections inspections it has been designed view, it is better to stop non-compliant products quirement for documentation. This increased pleted prior to delivery. Watch our to avoid small parts Quality Assurance in the factory rather than consumers experiencworkload primarily rests on manufacturing and pieces that Manager, ing product safety issues. companies. toddlers can choke on. Clarence Wong A TOY INDUSTRY CHALLENGE Throughout the 1990’s, we mainly focused on When TOP-TOY has products manufactured unand his team controlling products when they were produced, der its own brands, we have the responsibility The toys industry spans many different sales outlets, from small shops and boutiques to test product and our Quality Assurance Team went to the facsafety. to document Toy Safety Directive compliance. chain stores and megastores. Not all retailers have the same level of control mechanisms tories after mass production was completed but Whereas for products that we buy from our supand therefore have difficulty meeting the requirements of the European Toy Safety Direcpliers responsibility for documentation lies with tive which is a challenge for the industry. More information on how we work with Quality Assurance is available on our website top-toy.com/sustainability. them. In these cases, TOP-TOY must ensure that all required documentation is available. TOYS IN PLAY A TOY JOURNEY 2 3 A toy has come a long way to enter a child’s playroom. From being conceptualised, assembled and placed in packaging, to being shipped across the world and shelved in a store. The most important part of a toy’s life is being played with by children of all ages and nationalities bringing them fun and good childhood memories. We believe that every child needs a family and We perform battery performance tests for proda safe home; as a business in the toys industry ucts where the battery lifetime is critical, ensurDANSPIL® We Sell LotsSafari of Toys Page 18 sourcing in China, we feel a responsibility to ing higher battery efficiency for toys in use and School Board Game participate in countering the negative effects of standby. migration of workers. For this reason we support Raw Materials: the SOS Children’s Village who works in China to Retail Packaging Cardboard help children left behind by their parents. and plastics As other large-scale retailers, in cooperation In the SOS Children’s Village in Nanchang supwith their suppliers, have contributed to packAgegroup: 4 + ported by TOP-TOY, 111 children have their aging reduction over time; we are in the process home. 12 SOS-family houses are childhood of identifying how to best design packaging to Carried Since homes for the children and here they are cared reduce waste. We are also looking into how we October 2010 for by a SOS-mother. The family houses become can emphasise the importance of using certified the focal point of abandoned and orphaned materials towards our suppliers that produce reItems sold 2010/11: children’s lives. tail packaging. 7,575 Recycling toys Ending the Journey Happy Children At the end of a toy’s life, it is important to recyOur toy journey has come to an end. You have cle it at proper recycling facilities and to sort the seen how our two products have been develPositive play, happy children and safety are fundifferent types of materials according to the inoped, knocked around and dropped, shipped damental criteria to how we operate our busistructions provided by the local recycling facility. across the world and how they entered childness. We also focus a great deal of resources rens’ playrooms. and attention to ensuring that our products Recycling is a good mechanism for protecting are manufactured under ethically compliant the environment. As customers and consumers The value chain reflects our business; it helps conditions. As these fundamentals are in place, of toys play a vital role in protecting the envius identify where we can improve our business children can play together and develop skills ronment from harm by recycling packaging and operations and be more efficient in terms of through positive play. products after use. In Northern Europe, where protecting the environment, human and labour KIDS-WOOD® the vast majority of our products see the end of rights as well as fighting corruption and safeBaby Walker Reusing Toys their usable life, we have good recycling faciliguarding children’s vulnerability concerning ties for all types of hardware including toys. product safety. Children develop and grow and they seek new Raw Materials: challenges and experiences even from their Rubberwood Batteries are especially important to recycle beWe perform better in some areas of our value toys. Many toys and other products for children cause they cause severe environmental damage chain than in others; we are continuously findcan be reused by other children. They can also Agegroup: 1 + when improbably disposed of. Many different ing ways of bettering our performance in all arebe given to charity, in that way customers contypes of toys contain small batteries, and unas discussed throughout the toy journey. All our tribute to happy childhood memories for chilCarried Since fortunately, these often end up in household different stakeholders expect that we perform dren who do not have easy access to toys. June 2005 waste, at the expense of the environment. exceptionally in the particular areas of interest to them, however, we have to prioritise which Supporting the SOS Children’s Village Items sold 2010/11: TOP-TOY Fully Charged sustainability issues are more pressing relative 4,330 to others. TOP-TOY wants to ensure that also less fortunate We sell batteries under our own brand in our children like orphans are given room to play and stores and they are certified with the Swan-laThe assessment of how to prioritise our work grow, therefore we support the work of the SOS bel, which ensures they are among the least enis based on research such as our materiality asChildren’s Villages in Nanchang in China. vironmentally damaging batteries on the marsessment. In addition, we enter into dialog with ket, that quality and functionality are at least as our key stakeholders to hear their opinions and In many areas in China children are left by their good as other batteries and that user’s health take these into consideration when prioritising parents, who – of need – go to work in factories has been taken into account. We prioritise to sell our work and efforts. As always, we welcome in distant locations. Authorities are not yet ready swan-label batteries despite lower profits. any constructive feedback and ideas for imto fully help these children and millions of chilprovement of our work. dren are left without sufficient care. LEADING THE WAY CONCLUSION 2 5 Throughout the journey we illustrate a strong tradition for sustainability at TOP-TOY, particularly with issues related to product safety, factory conditions and employee health and safety. We are recognised for our efforts and we are proud of our progress but we know there is still work to be done. Linking financial growth to sustainability Looking to the Future ASPECT ISSUE OUR GOALS In recent years, we have made the transformaIn the years to come, we will continue the tion from working with sustainability as isolated transformation of integrating activities into a Factory Compliance Lead Time Roll-out our supplier evaluation programme Factory compliance includes many aspects of workers rights to cover all of the TOP-TOY Group. issues to developing a long term vision for the consolidated vision and strategy by constantly including human and labour rights. Working proactively Human and TOP-TOY Group. The long term vision includes a monitoring stakeholder concerns and material to prevent the abuse of the workers rights include adapting Labour Rights complete integration of sustainability into our issues that arise in the toys industry. One of the a business planning schedule accommodating increased business, creating clear links between financial first steps is to expand our Factory Compliance production lead time. An increased production lead time allows factories to better plan production and human resources. growth and sustainability performance. Programme to all our suppliers. Here we can draw on our expertise from working with facLooking Back tory compliance in Hong Kong for more than ten years. Communication Communication Improve our reporting performance and report The history of our company reveals a transforCommunication to parents must be open and honest, on relevant and critical issues. mation from a local toy store to an international In the short term, we will continue our focus on if a company want to be perceived as transparent in its Transparency player in the global toys industry. Some of the meeting expectations of customers, consumoperations. Additionally, any uncertainty as to the ethics Develop a whistle-blower system to uncover of marketing towards children and other issues any unethical behaviour in TOP-TOY. decisive years for our success were the early ers, employees and the organisations we are Marketing can be addressed in a constructive dialogue with towards Children eighties, where we doubled the number of our currently involved with. These expectations, in relevant stakeholders. Collect data systematically allowing for increased stores; we doubled that number again in the terms of sustainability, are mainly related to hutransparency. nineties. The introduction of our megastores man and labour rights, marketing, and the enviProvide access to increased sustainability further drove our success forward. ronment which are directly influenced by information on our communication platforms TOP-TOY’s operations. such as the TOP-TOY, BR and TOYS”R”US websites. In terms of sustainability performance, we have made significant investments in product quality In the long term, it is our goal to increasingly assurance and factory social and ethical complicollaborate with stakeholders to address broadEmployees Work Environment Continue implementing Employeeship ance from our office in Hong Kong. er issues, within TOP-TOY’s sphere of influence, Employee well-being is a core element in securing motivated and in our Group. such as environment and climate change, imloyal staff. Working systematically with job satisfaction is part of Business Integrity securing a good working environment. In addition a well defined Develop a Code of Conduct and supporting We started to align our operations more strateproving health and safety, fighting corruption employee Code of Conduct defining the expected behaviour for policies. gically towards sustainability in 2009 when we and labour rights. We are looking into working employees is reducing the likelihood of unintended misconduct. allocated a fulltime resource to drive TOP-TOY’s with external experts on these issues to ensure sustainability agenda forward. The same year that TOP-TOY meets its stakeholder’s expectaTOP-TOY joined the United Nations Global Comtions. pact and hereby made a commitment to work to Product Responsibility Product Safety Establish a baseline for current quantities promote human and labour rights, to develop Keeping our Promise Product responsibility addresses whether legislation, of certified wood used in our products in order rules and laws are followed in regards to product safety. Eco-Labelled to set future targets for quantity of certified wood good environmental practices and to particiAdditionally, it addresses whether a toy adds value for our wooden product lines. Products pate in the fight against corruption. Throughout the toy journey, we have made refto a child’s development and positive childhood experience. erences to goals and promises related to sustainEco-labelled products address customer’s demand for Educational Value We also expanded our scope, for sustainability, environmentally friendly products made from organic ability at TOP-TOY, these are important to make material and sustainably harvested wood. when we bought selected assets of the wholebecause they help us drive change towards sussaler K.E. Mathiasen (KEM) in 2009. KEM is curtainability. The goals and promises are related rently being integrated and aligned to our exto the sixth aspects which have been defined as isting product quality and factory compliance material for TOP-TOY throughout the materiality Environment and Climate Change Environment Find alternative, more environmentally friendly All business operations have an impact on the environment. This and packaging options. standards. assessment conducted in November 2010. includes energy cosumption and the use of packaging material Climate Change for retail and transportation packaging. Establishing a baseline for energy consumption across TOP-TOY. GET AN OVERVIEW If you would like to get an overview of TOP-TOY’s expansion and our sustainability Market Position Competition Train employees in anti-trust issues. key events over time, you can find a timeline on page 31. Market position concerns aspects related to competition or the lack thereof and related laws such as the European If you would like more information about our materiality assessment and how it was Competition Law. conducted, you can find this on page 7. Here you can also find a materiality map. You can find more information about our sustainability goals on our website. Here you can also see our goals set in 2009/2010. See top-toy.com/sustainability. WE ARE THE TOP-TOY GROUP OUR EMPLOYEES CONCLUSION 2 7 TOP-TOY is a family-owned and family-operated business – we sell toys and other product to children. The TOP-TOY is characterised by dedicated employees: in our stores, in our sales and administration offices and TOP-TOY journey started in the 1950s and today we run 290 BR and TOYS“R”US stores, as well as wholesale in our distribution centres. We want our employees to think of TOP-TOY as a good place to work, and we aim operations through which we supply a diverse range of products to children of all ages. to shape an organisational culture inspired by the spirit of fun which children exemplify in playing with our toys. We believe that fun, enjoyment and a focus on performance are essential components in creating a good place to work. At TOP-TOY, we have set up structures to support We also own our megastores where we sell toys TOP-TOY employed 6,113 people during the fiGEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES QR CODE our operations. These include a retail division, a under the TOYS”R”US license, for which TOP-TOY nancial period 2010/2011. Not surprisingly, the wholesale division, a buying division and two holds a long term franchise agreement for the toy industry’s peak season is Christmas, which GERMANY • 4% DENMARK • 50% distribution centres. Management at the group Nordic Countries (Denmark, Sweden, Norway, means that we need a significant number of level takes place from the head office near CoFinland and Iceland). extra people to be able to manage the spike in HONG KONG • 4% penhagen in Denmark and is supported by local demand, therefore, a large number of our emoperations in the countries of operation. From our head office, we manage all sales, marployees only work part time or hold temporary keting and merchandising activities in close colcontracts. In order to gain a meaningful underSWEDEN • 22% FINLAND • 6% Watch one of TOP-TOY is led by our Managing Directors Peter laboration with retail country managers. standing of how many people TOP-TOY emand Lars Gjørup – who are third generation of ploys, we have calculated the head-count into NORWAY • 13% ICELAND • 1% our Managing the Gjørup-family. Our Wholesale Division 2,261 fulltime positions. Directors, Lars Gjørup Our Retail Division The wholesale division K.E. Mathiasen A/S Out of the 6,113 people TOP-TOY employed durNOTE: Based on full time positions explain (KEM) is operated from Aarhus in Denmark. ing 2010/11 18% were employed on full time the vision for The retail division is operated from the head ofKEM is a brand house and from the main office contracts, whereas 82% had part time contracts. TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT TOP-TOY. fice. The heart of the retail division is our two rein Aarhus, we service a wide range of retail chanTOP-TOY take great responsibility in offering tail channels BR and TOYS“R”US. nels (approximately 4,800 stores) through local young people an opportunity to get a job comBR • 52% TOYS”R”US • 23% sales operations and show rooms in Denmark, bining practical and theoretical aspects, and We own the BR retail stores which cover NorthSweden, Norway and Finland. that is why we in 2010/11 employed approxiern Europe including, Denmark, Sweden, Normately 130 trainees counting for 2% of all emway, Finland and Northern Germany. We also KEM has a division, K.E. Leisure, which sells liployees in TOP-TOY. have BR on the Faroe Islands, operated under a censed lifestyle products for children such as franchise agreement. apparel, home furnishing, melamine tablewear, TOP-TOY’s employees are in general young peoDISTRIBUTION watches, lamps and sweets. ple. More than half of all people we employed ADMINISTRATION • 24% CENTRES • 8% during 2010/11 were below 25 years old. Our Buying Division The majority of our employees are women, who counts for 69% of the workforce based on headNOTE: Administration includes sales managers and sales representaThe buying division for the TOP-TOY Group is counts. tives in KEM. All numbers are based on full time positions. operated from the main office in Hong Kong, as well as from two offices in Denmark and one NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE Looking into the different types of jobs that our in Germany. The buying offices serve both our employees perform in TOP-TOY we will see that 600 retail and wholesale divisions and manage all the vast majority of our employees work in our product suppliers. Each buying office is respon500 stores – 52% in our BR stores and 23% in our sible for a selected group of product suppliers. 400 TOYS“R”US stores. 17% work in administrative jobs in Copenhagen, Aarhus and Hong Kong, as 300 Product management is handled by dedicated RETAIL WHOLESALE teams in each office which are responsible for well as in our local offices and KEM’s sales offices 200 in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland. 8% of sourcing, designing, order processing, safety 100 TOP-TOY’s employees work in our two distribuBUYING DISTRIBUTION and quality control, as well as factory complition centres. 0 DIVISION CENTRES ance. 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Our Distribution Centres NOTE: Based on full time positions We own and operate two distribution centres in Denmark (Greve near Copenhagen and Brabrand near Aarhus respectively). The distriMEET A TOP-TOY EMPLOYEE bution centres service all our stores and all our wholesale customers in the sixth countries of The most likely TOP-TOY employee to meet is a female, who works in a BR store in Denoperation. mark. She is about 20 years old, she has a part time contract and has worked in the company for about 1 year. We also work an external warehouse to package and send orders for customers that purchase products from our webshops. RETAIL BR TOYS RETAIL TOYS“R”US CONCLUSION 2 9 BR is a well-established chain of toy stores, counting 237 individual store locations spread across the Nordic TOYS”R”US is a popular chain of megastores where we sell a large selection of products to children. countries including 16 in Northern Germany. Additionally, we have recently opened four webshops. All stores The stores are known for their broad range of products and competitive prices while focusing bring educational fun and entertainment into children’s lives by offering safe products of high quality. on excellent customer service. TOP-TOY has 47 TOYS”R”US stores, spread across Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland and Iceland. The Early Days TOP-TOY Introduces First Danish Megastore BR came to life in Denmark, which still forms the TOP-TOY’s first megastore was called “SUPERhome base of BR’s owner, TOP-TOY. With more LEG” and opened in Taastrup, Denmark in 1987. than 90 stores across the country, BR is wellIt was a brand new and totally different sales represented in the Danish market. In fact, there concept for the Nordic region. In 1996, TOPprobably is not a child in the country that does TOY entered into a franchise agreement with not grow up without knowing the BR Mascot as TOYS”R”US Inc. in which we would convert our the “chap” selling all those great toys. nine “SUPERLEG” stores to TOYS”R”US stores. Today TOP-TOY holds the exclusive license to operAll over the Nordic Region ate TOYS”R”US stores in the Nordic region and operates 47 stores across the Nordic countries. Sweden was the second country in the Nordics where TOP-TOY opened its BR stores “BR-LeksakAll over the Nordic Region er”. In 1991, the first store was opened in Malmo, today we operate 65 stores in Sweden reflecting Under its initial agreement with the US owner new stores and the acquired “Stor och Liten” toy of the TOYS“R”US brand in 1996, TOP-TOY took store chain. over the existing TOYS“R”US stores in Sweden, and expanded the business to include stores in In 2003, the first store “BR-Leker” in Norway was Norway, beginning with Oslo, in 1999. EMPLOYEES CALCULATED TOYS”R”US STORES EMPLOYEES CALCULATED REVENUE IN MILLION DKK BR STORES IN FULL TIME POSITIONS REVENUE IN MILLION DKK opened in Haugesund and today we have 45 ON JUNE 30, 2011 IN FULL TIME POSITIONS (EXCLUDING VAT) 2010/11 ON JUNE 30, 2011 (EXCLUDING VAT) 2010/11 2010/11 stores in Norway reflecting new stores and the In 2006, TOP-TOY expanded its business and 2010/11 acquired “Edwis” toy stores. opened its first TOYS”R”US store in Jyväskylä, FinDenmark 91 494 699 Denmark 15 198 479 land. Today we have five megastores in Finland. Just a few years later, in 2005, BR was established Just a year later, in 2007, TOP-TOY continued its Sweden 65 327 573 Sweden 16 150 467 in Finland with the opening of four “BR-Lelut“ expansion and opened its first TOYS”R”US store stores in October that year. The chain-store’s forin Reykjavik, Iceland. Today we have three stores Norway 45 172 318 Norway 8 100 305 mula for success was re-anchored, and today BR on Iceland. has 20 stores in Finland. Finland 20 84 128 Finland 5 44 99 Crossing Boarders Germany 16 84 91 Iceland 3 26 48 In September 2007, TOP-TOY acquired the GerBR total 237 1,161 1,809 man toy chain “Salzmann” which became “BRTRU total 47 518 1,398 Spielwaren”. With the opening of eleven stores NOTE: TOP-TOY also have four BR webshops in Flensburg and Hamburg, BR entered a new and large market. Crossing boarders and movNUMBER OF BR STORES OVER TIME ing into unfamiliar grounds has been an exciting NUMBER OF TOYS”R”US STORES OVER TIME and positive experience for the company. Today NUMBER NUMBER OF STORES there are 16 BR stores in Northern Germany. OF STORES 250 50 45 200 40 35 150 30 25 100 20 15 50 10 5 0 0 63 66 69 72 75 78 81 84 87 90 93 96 99 02 05 08 11 19 7 19 9 1 19 19 3 19 5 19 7 9 19 20 1 3 20 5 20 7 20 9 20 20 1 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 20 20 20 20 8 8 9 9 9 9 9 0 0 0 0 0 1 YEAR YEAR BR DENMARK BR SWEDEN BR NORWAY BR FINLAND BR GERMANY TRU DENMARK TRU SWEDEN TRU NORWAY TRU FINLAND TRU ISLAND WHOLESALE K.E. MATHIASEN CONCLUSION 3 1 K.E. Mathiasen (KEM) has been a leading toys distributor in the Nordic region for quite a number of years. The product range is comprehensive and includes both branded and licensed products. KEM joined the TOP-TOY Group in 2009, and now plays an important role in TOP-TOY’s long-term strategy to sell THE HISTORY OF TOP-TOY’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK through multiple channels. MARKET EXPANSION SUSTAINABILITY KEY EVENTS 1963 • First BR-store opens in Denmark A Nordic Brand House 1987 1963 • First Superleg opens in Denmark KEM was founded in 1963 in Denmark. The company expanded into Sweden in 1989 by the ac1988 1987 • Celebrating 25 years anniversary quisition of Leksam. 1991 1988 with 62 BR-stores in Denmark • First BR-store opens in Sweden In 1999 the acquisition of Norstar allowed KEM 1992 1991 • Hong Kong buying office established to enter the Norwegian and Finish markets. 1993 1992 • Quality Assurance Manager position established Today KEM has been transformed into the lead1995 • Exclusive license to operate 1993 ing brand house in the Nordic and employ approximately 100 people. 1995 TOYS R US stores in the Nordic region. Superleg is turned into TOYS R US 1996 • Take over of existing TOYS R US stores in Sweden K.E. Leisure 1997 1996 • Bad publicity in Danish media kick-starts internal processes K.E. Leisure was established as a division of KEM in 2001 as one of the first companies in its spe1997 for establishing a factory compliance process 1998 cific field of licensed lifestyle products for chil• In-depth study of factories reveal: dren. K.E. Leisure offers licensed products within 1998 • Lack of control of chemical substances • Lack of system for controlling social and ethical conditions home furnishing and room decor, melamine 1999 • First TOYS”R”US store opens in Norway tableware and drink ware, watches and clocks, lamps, sweets and apparel. 1999 ESTIMATED NUMBER • Actions based on study from 1998: REVENUE IN MILLION DKK (EXCLUDING VAT) 2010/11 OF SHOPS SERVICED BY KEM 2010/11 1999 • Better planned social and ethical audits • First supplier “Code of Conduct” launched Nordic Customers & Sales • Reduction of number of suppliers • Focus on long term supplier relationships Denmark 362 1,500 2000 KEM cooperates with leading retail chains as • Supplier and factory database created well as with a large number of independent re2000 to track performance history tailers in each of the four Nordic countries. KEM 2001 Sweden 146 1,500 • Supplier’s Manual issued to all major suppliers operates showrooms and sales offices – in the 2003 2001 • Factory Compliance Manager Position established different countries where the local and expe• First BR-store opens in Norway Norway 172 1,450 rienced sales staff continuously stays in touch 2005 2003 with our business-to-business customers. • First BR-store opens in Finland Finland 149 350 2006 2005 As of January 1 2011, KEM has become the dis• First TOYS”R”US store opens in Finland tributor of Mattel’s portfolio of branded prod2007 2006 KEM total 829 4,800 ucts in the Nordic. The partnership with Mattel • First BR-store opens in Germany has strengthened our market capabilities and 2007 • First TOYS”R”US store opens in Iceland supported the transformation of KEM to be• TOP-TOY signs up to ICTI CARE Process come a brand house. 2007 2009 • K.E. Mathiasen joins the Group In Denmark, KEM also operates a dedicated “rack 2009 • Group Sustainability Manager position established in Hong Kong shopping” sales force known as “Toy Club”, which distributes toys through a number of vans with 2009 • New Factory Social and Ethical Compliance Policy secures structured grading and assessment of suppliers and factories a selected product range for small service kiosks • Revised supplier Code of Conduct communicated to all suppliers and factories and supermarkets. • TOP-TOY joins the United Nations Global Compact 2010 • First Sustainability Report is published 2010 • Group Sustainability Manager Position relocated to Headquarters in Denmark 2011 • Sustainability Coordinator position established 2011 • Factory Compliance Standards replaces supplier Code of Conduct • Second Sustainability Report is published METHODOLOGY AND REPORTING FRAMEWORK CONCLUSION 3 3 SELECTED DATA WITH CROSS REFERENCE TO UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI Scope and Legal Notices Materiality UN GLOBAL COMPACT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TYPE OF DATA PAGE This report focuses on the financial year coverThe issues covered in this report are identified Human Rights HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Quantitative data on factory 15 ing July 1 2010 to June 30 2011. as material for TOP-TOY by our key stakeholders. Principle 1 and 2 that underwent screening on human rights and certifications. See page 7 for more information on our latest actions taken. Quantitative data on supplier and 13 Throughout the report references are made to materiality assessment. factories. the TOP-TOY Group, this covers TOP-TOY A/S, TOP-TOY ( Hong Kong) ltd., K.E. Mathiasen A/S Data (KEM) and TOP-TOY Ejendomme A/S. K.E. Leisure LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Number of store and warehouse employ17 is a part of KEM. Leksam and Norstar are regisThis report is based on quantitative and qualiabsenteeism, and total number of work-related fataliees with reported injuries in Denmark, ties by region. including injuries by category. tered trademarks of KEM. The TOP-TOY Group is tative data collected from internal systems and not a legal entity but refers to the legal entity key persons responsible for the operations. TOP-TOY Holding A/S, which owns the above Some of the data presented has been consoliLabour LR 6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Description of how to handle Zero-toler15 mentioned subsidiaries. dated for the first time. To the best of TOP-TOY’s Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 incidents of child labour and measures to contribute ance issues in the supply chain. knowledge the data presented is accurate and to eliminate child labour. TOP-TOY is a registered trademark of TOP-TOY reflects TOP-TOY’s progress, including actions Quantitative data on handling of 15 Zero-tolerance issues. (Hong Kong) Ltd. KIDS-WOOD, PLAY2LEARN, BELwe have realised and objectives achieved in the LINO and FLEXI-TRAX is a registered trademark of financial year. TOP-TOY A/S. DANSPIL is a registered trademark LA 1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Overview of employee head count and 27 of KEM. All other marks referred to in this report Statements and data presented throughout contract, and region. equivalent fulltime positions including contract type, employee category, are the property of their respective owners. the report have been verified for correctness by gender, age and seniority. responsible managers so as to ensure that the LA 2 Total number and rate of employee turnover broken TOYS”R”US, the TOYS”R”US & Star design and report reflects accurately on TOP-TOY’s perfordown by age group, gender, and region. the Giraffe design are registered trademarks of mance. Geoffrey, LLC. TOP-TOY A/S is a licensee of Geoffrey, LLC. The management of our supplier base is divided The Environment EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Quantitative data on certified tree or 11 Principle 7, 8 and 9 materials. rubberwood used for wooden toys sold between our office in Hong Kong and our ofby TOP-TOY. Reporting Framework fices in Europe. Some of the data presented in the report only covers products sourced from The report lives up to the criteria of the UN suppliers managed by the office in Hong Kong. PR 2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Five year overview of recalls affecting 18 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health toys sold by TOP-TOY. Global Compact including the commitment to This includes factory compliance data, product and safety impacts of products and services during issue an annual Communication on Progress safety data and data regarding wooden toys. In their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Description of required labelling. 11 (COP) report, a public disclosure to stakeholders 2010/11 our office in Hong Kong sourced apmade in implementing the 10 principles of the proximately 50% of our products in terms of Quantitative data on product safety. 21 UN Global Compact. value. PR 3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information This report also lives up to the legal requireLimitations requirements. ment for certain Danish companies to disclose whether they work with sustainability and if so Sustainability Reporting is a new skill at TOP-TOY what policies have been developed related to and we have yet to finalise data collection and Anti-Corruption SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Description of actions taken if corruption 13 Principle 10 is identified. sustainability, how those policies have been imverification systems. Therefore, we are less data plemented and an impact assessment of related driven than we want to be; to that effect we are actions. in the process of developing a reliable reporting No specific link to the EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Quantitative data on financial 9 platform in order to collect, verify and compare UN Global Compact including revenues, operating costs, employee comperformance. In the future, we will align our goals to the data over time. We have yet to consolidate the pensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators. We data collection processes for our wholesale diviproviders and governments. do not work with GRI consistently yet, but we sion KEM, which was acquired in 2009. are preparing to for our future sustainability reports. Where relevant, we indicate, which GRI PR 6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and Description of marketing practices 18 Indicators are associated to our work. voluntary codes related to marketing communications, related to children. including advertising, promotion, and Sponsorship. For more information on our Sustainability work contact our Sustainability Department at sustainability@top-toy.com TOP-TOY A/S Roskildevej 16, 4030 Tune Denmark Tel +45 46 16 36 56 www.top-toy.com TOP-TOY (Hong Kong) Ltd. 11/F, Central Plaza 18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong Tel +852 3143 8888 www.top-toy.com K.E. Mathiasen A/S Sintrupvej 12, 8220 Brabrand Denmark Tel +45 89 44 22 00 www.keleg.dk Top Performance.pdf 1 24/11/2010 10:28 AM Toy Fun.pdf 1 24/11/2010 10:16 AM Business Sense.pdf 1 24/11/2010 9:45 AM Responsibility.pdf 1 24/11/2010 10:37 AM C C C C M M M M Y Y Y Y CM CM CM CM MY MY MY MY CY CY CY CY CMY CMY CMY CMY K K K K
