Communication on Progress (CoP) Report December 2012 INTRACOM HOLDINGS Statement It has been an honor for Intracom Holdings Group to join the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative. Our Group is fully aligned with the Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption and is committed to conducting its business in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner, safeguarding pollution prevention, providing excellent workplace conditions, and being committed to the communities in which it operates. As a Group of companies, we have always pursued life-enhancing technological advancements, developing solutions which adapt technological breakthroughs to the needs of modern society. Our determination to make a positive difference in the lives of customers, communities and among our workers and partners (and, more generally, all of our stakeholders) is reflected in our support for the United Nations Global Compact and our commitment to the CSR development. Our business strategy and policies incorporate the ten principles of the UNGC. Being a good corporate citizen – and working towards sustainability goals is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels of management within our company. One of our major objectives is to disseminate the 10 principles of the Global Compact in its business ecosystem because this can make the world a better place for the generations to come. In this second CoP, we summarised the progress we have made against these principles during the period June 2011 December 2012. Signing name and function: Michael Prountzos, Human Resources Director CoP INTRACOM HOLDINGS_2012.doc 1 Intracom Holdings is one of the largest multinational technology groups in South East Europe. The companies of the Group are: INTRACOM TELECOM INTRACOM TELECOM is an international telecommunication systems vendor operating in Eastern Europe, the Middle East & Africa, Russia, the CIS and Asia-Pacific. The company employs over 2,000 highly-skilled engineer and professionals. Its subsidiaries span 16 countries in Eastern Europe, the Middle East & Africa, Asia and North America. INTRASOFT INTERNATIONAL INTRASOFT International S.A. is a leading European company in the area of Information and Communication Technology services. The company employs more than 1,300 employees in Belgium, Luxembourg, Athens and Romania, 20% of whom hold postgraduate degrees. INTRACOM DEFENSE ELECTRONICS INTRACOM DEFENSE ELECTRONICS is Greece's largest manufacturer of defence electronics products, systems and applications. The company has significant international activity and is a pioneer in research and development. It employs around 400 people, 54% of which is scientific staff. CoP INTRACOM HOLDINGS_2012.doc 2 INTRAKAT INTRAKAT is one of the biggest construction companies in Greece. The company has been involved in numerous construction, steel construction, infrastructure, telecom, environmental and renewable energy sources projects in Greece and abroad. It employs around 440 people. HELLAS ON LINE Hellas online is one of the strongest providers of integrated broadband services in Greece. It provides a wide range of telecom services to private customers as well as to free-lancers, small, medium and large enterprises. It employs around 800 people. CoP INTRACOM HOLDINGS_2012.doc 3 THE 10 principles of UNGC Human Rights INTRACOM HOLDINGS fully considers and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the relevant national and European legislation. The company has established and maintained certifications for Quality Management (ISO 9001: 2008), Environmental Management (ISO 14001:2004), Occupational Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001:2007) and Social Accountability (SA 8000:2008) systems since 2000. The company has also been a member of Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility since 2001, actively contributing to the growth and advancement of corporate social responsibility in Greece. Implementation Our written corporate procedures, system manuals and directives are compliant with UNGC principals and requirements of IS0 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000 standards. The respective documents are published in our corporate portal and are available to all employees on line. Also, new employees are informed about human rights corporate procedures and policies through induction seminar during their first working days. Measurement of outcome The company has established an open-door policy where employees can report grievances to upper management and human resources director. No report has been filed for this year. Under the framework of SA 8000 standard, the human resources department representative performs internal audits twice a year and reports any incidents to Human Resources Director and the respective line managers for corrective actions. No incidents were reported last year. Furthermore, the company performs audits to suppliers regarding human rights, labour rights and environmental issues. Under the same framework, the company is under audit twice a year by external auditors (Bureau Veritas SA). Labour rights The company abides by local legislation as well as endorses the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The company has been one of the first Greek companies to be certified by SA 8000. This standard ensures the existence of an excellent and safe working environment in which non-discriminatory policies are applied, equal opportunities are offered to all employees irrespective of gender, age, and nationality. Furthermore, religion, employee trade union rights are respected, and health and safety procedures are faithfully adhered to. The company has also been certified by Health & Safety standard ΟΗSΑS 18000. The application of the standard assists the company for a safe, health and familiar labour environment, through the identification of the hazards and the risks assessment. Training to the personnel on health & safety issues, procedures CoP INTRACOM HOLDINGS_2012.doc 4 and guidance for the production line and evacuation-building drills in accordance to the hanged escape root plans are some of indicative Health & Safety actions. Implementation In this framework, the company has designed and implemented an integrated human resources management system which includes: recruitment & succession planning system, career development system, performance appraisal system, rewards system, training and development system. The integrated human resources management system aligns with our principle that our employees have to be rewarded in accordance with their performance and their contribution to the achievement of company’s goals. INTRACOM HOLDINGS practices freedom of association and recognizes the right to collective bargaining. The Employees’ Union was established in 1984 and has been active ever since with around 90% of employees as members. The “open-door” policy according to which employees can raise issues to upper management any time, the performance appraisal system, rewards system and succession planning system facilitate the direct communication among all the hierarchy levels. The Company maintains transparency and updates the employees continuously through the corporate portal, bulletin boards, e-mail, staff meetings and publications. Hiring and promotion of employees are based on meritocracy and criteria like academic qualifications, and skills. As a result of its continuous effort to maintain the best possible environment, INTRACOM Holdings was awarded as one of the top five Greek companies offering equal opportunities in 2007, an initiative by CoP INTRACOM HOLDINGS_2012.doc 5 Hellenic Federation of Enterprises and the General Secretariat for Gender Equality of Ministry of the Interior. Measurement of outcome Employees are appreciative of the harmonious working environment, a proof of which is the fact that no serious employees’ grievances have been filed with the HR Director for the last year. INTRACOM HOLDINGS practically respects the non-discrimination principle and favours the diversity within teams. This is confirmed by the number of employed women which is larger than the sector’s average as well as the percentage of female executives (9%). The company is audited by external auditors every six months and re-certified every two years. Environment INTRACOM HOLDINGS supports the UNGC principles on environment and has been monitoring the environmental impact of its activities since 2000. Implementation In 2000 the Company adopted an Environmental Management System (EMS) with the aim of closely controlling the environmental impact of its activities. The EMS is certified in accordance with the international standard ΙSΟ 14001 (since 2000) and its maintenance – in parallel with the commitment in environmental efficiency and employees’ awareness and training – are among the main priorities towards sustainable development. Recycling and reusing materials procedures are applied at all facilities. The company participates in the national scheme of the proper management of packing material, the national scheme for the (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) compliance scheme and in other national and European projects. Under the framework of SA 8000 certification, the company performs audits to suppliers for environmental issues. The Company, further and above the current legislation, monitors the international trends, sets strictest limits and stops using Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), before their imposition by directives or laws. Surveys concerning occupational risks and environmental hazards are carried out at all facilities in order to assess the risks and initiate preventive actions. Indicatively, the company performs preventive maintenance on equipment and electrical networks, regulates electrical parameters, operates building service equipment (e.g. air-conditioning units, lifts etc) in an environmental friendly manner, uses video-conference equipment which reduces the number of business trips required, uses integrated information systems aiming to restrict the consumption of paper, uses hired coaches for the transportation of personnel from central subway/bus terminals in the city to the company’s premises, performs preventive maintenance on equipment & buildings. The consumption of all types of energy and water is registered and monitored in order to keep networks and piping properly maintained and to reduce resources consumption. The above are complemented by efforts to raise awareness and the benefits that can result. The management of the dangerous and non-dangerous wastes takes place through properly licensed agencies. CoP INTRACOM HOLDINGS_2012.doc 6 The company uses internationally approved calculation models and reports for greenhouse gas emissions (The greenhouse Gas Protocol etc). The company pays close attention to the latest trend developments in the ICT field, keeps its personnel informed and aware on the fundamentals and practices of ecological design (e.g. reduction of the use of material that is harmful to the environment, repair and upgrade of products in order to expand their lifespan, capability of products to be fully or partially disassembled and re-used aiming to facilitate the recycling process and reduce the amount of waste etc) The company has been involved in various ecological activities aiming to promote the environmental conscience in local communities (e.g. Peania Home Composting Program) INTRACOM HOLDINGS recognizes the importance of preserving biodiversity within the context of sustainable development and improved quality of life in the surrounding areas of its installations. Moreover, none of these installations is near protected areas (e.g. NATURA). The company’s contribution to environmental protection also extends to the participation to reforestation programs, the support of academic and scientific institutions and the participation in a project concerning the creation of ‘’green terraces’’ in urban areas. CoP INTRACOM HOLDINGS_2012.doc 7 Measurement of outcome INTRACOM TELECOM defines and documents identification and evaluation methods of all environmental aspects of its operations and their associated effects. Evaluation is performed against predefined criteria including legislative and other regulatory requirements. Emergency Response Plans are designed to secure prevention and mitigation of the associated environmental impacts. INTRACOM HOLDINGS maintains continual improvement by undertaking specific environmental objectives based on identified environmental standards, and monitoring and documenting the achievement of these objectives. Under the framework of ISO 14001 certification, the company is audited by external auditors (Bureau Veritas SA) every six months and re-certified every two years. Anti corruption INTRACOM HOLDINGS recognizes and values integrity, excellence, innovation and customer satisfaction, and is committed to the highest standard of ethical behaviour in all its actions and decisions. The company follows the principles of Corporate Governance (the company is listed in the Athens Stock Exchange). In this framework, the company adapts to the expectations of stakeholders, the market and the society in general and, more specifically, to ethical investors. CoP INTRACOM HOLDINGS_2012.doc 8 The Company’s Employee Handbook (properly verified by the Greek Public authorities) illustrates the policy that INTRACOM HOLDINGS has decided to put in place. More specifically, in article 13, is it is written explicitly that employees are not allowed “To accept payments, gifts, bribes offered for their employment services or obtain privileges or other benefits for themselves, or on their relatives’ account.” INTRACOM HOLDINGS’ goal for 2013 is to continue to provide education for all employees about anticorruption. Implementation The company has in place disciplinary actions which are described in detail in articles 17,18,19 of the Company’s Employee Handbook. These disciplinary actions are enforced when an employee violates provisions of Employee Handbook including, acceptance of payments, gifts, bribes. Also, the company has set a complaint process which is described in article 20 of the Company’s Employee Handbook. Employee handbook is available to all employees in corporate portal. Induction seminars regarding company anti-corruption procedures and employee handbook are organised for new employees at the beginning of their employment. The company has in place auditing mechanisms, audit committees (permanent and ad hoc) as well as internal control procedures to assure the minimization of risks and confirm that all activities are carried out in accordance with the corporate policy and strategy. In the framework of the Group’s continuing improvement concerning anti-corruption, INTRACOM DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (subsidiary of INTRACOM HOLDINGS) was the first company of the Group which adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which specifies and helps the continued implementation of the Corporate Business Principles by establishing certain non-negotiable minimum standards of behavior in key areas. This Code applies to all employees, directors, officers, and contractors of INTRACOM Defense Electronics and it should also be provided to and followed by the Company’s agents and representatives. The Code sets forth the standards for the way INTRACOM Defense Electronics conducts business ethically around the world. These ethical business standards include dealing with Company’s employees, its customers, contractors, partners and shareholders, communities and governments. This Code covers a wide range of business practices and procedures. The nature of this Code is not meant to cover all possible situations that may occur. It is designed to provide a frame of reference against which to measure any activities. (http://www.intracom.com/intracom_defense/en/company/profile/ethics.htm). Measurement of outcome The disciplinary actions to employees are imposed by the Management of the Company or by the General Manager of the Financial and Administration Division, being authorized by the Management. The penalties vary from oral warning up to dismissal depending on the severity of the violation. In 2012, no disciplinary actions were imposed to employees. CoP INTRACOM HOLDINGS_2012.doc 9
