CSR Report 2011 INDEX Editorial policies 02 Company Mission and Policies ・This report gives the entire picture of CSR of ROHM Group, and outlines important themes in the “Stable Supply of High 03 Top Message Quality Products,” “Solutions to Social Issues via Innovative Products,” and “Global Human Resources Development,” 07 CSR Management which ROHM thinks are particularly important, and its position toward stakeholders. 09 ROHM in the Value Chain ・ROHM strives to apply the concept of ISO26000, which is the international standard for social responsibilities, to activities of ROHM Group. 11 Stable Supply of High Quality Products Report system High 13 Solutions to Social Issues via ROHM began annually publishing its Innovative Products Environmental Data Book in 2000 and, Degree of importance for Downloadable since 2007, ROHM has published the edition 15 Global Human Resources Development report under the title of CSR Report. In 2009, CSR Report was made available both as a downloadable digest version stakeholders and detailed online edition on the WEB company website. In the detailed online 17 Development Based on Global edition, comprehensive information is Standards disclosed, while the download version High Degree of importance for f o c u s e s a n d r e p o r t s o n R O H M ’s ROHM Group approaches particularly important for stakeholders and ROHM Group. 19 Commitment to Customers ・Downloadable digest version Particularly important CSR activities are reported. 20 Commitment to Business Partners ・Detailed edition Comprehensive CSR activities are reported in detail. 21 Commitment to Employees http://www.rohm.com/csr/ ・[Environmental Data Book] 22 Commitment to Shareholders Environmental information is reported in detail. and Investors ＊All the above three media can be downloaded in PDF format. 23 Commitment to Local Societies and Communities Third party comments Comments given by knowledgeable persons of ROHM’s CSR activities will 24 Consideration for the Environment be posted on the website later. Scope of reporting ROHM Co., Ltd. and all companies of ROHM Group 25 General Information on ROHM Group (Affiliated companies at home and abroad) Reporting period Year 2010 (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011) ＊To facilitate your understanding, reports on approaches made before the reporting period and most recent activities are discussed in part. Published on: August 2011 (Next issue: scheduled in August 2012) Guidelines used for reference Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 Contact: CSR Promotion Department ROHM Co., Ltd. TEL: +81(75)321-1227 Fax: +81(75)311-1307 e-mail: csr@rohm.co.jp 01 ROHM CSR Report 2011 Company Mission and Policies ROHM has communicated the Company Mission, that has existed since our founding, to its employees in order to become a company trusted and counted on by society. COMPANY MISSION Quality is our top priority at all times. Our objective is to contribute to the advancement and progress of our culture through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, of high quality products in large volumes to the global market. Furthermore, policies to achieve this Company Mission are laid out and serve as guidelines for business activities. BASIC MANAGEMENT POLICY Secure reasonable profit through a concerted company-wide effort for a comprehensive quality assurance program. Develop globally leading products by improving upon technologies held by each department for continued advancement of the company. Maintain healthy and vigorous lifestyles and refine intellect and humanitarianism, hence contributing to society. Search extensively for capable human resources and cultivate them as cornerstones for building long-term prosperity. BASIC QUALITY ASSURANCE POLICY 1. Promote internal standardization for the whole company and establish structures for QC management by data. 2. Conduct comprehensive and continuous research for the development of new technologies and products. 3. Proactively utilize methods of statistical control for all areas of company activities. 4. Establish quality assurance structures for all manufacturing processes. 5. Exert effort for cost reductions of each product by continual modernization of manufacturing systems. 6. Secure quality assurance programs of raw materials and components with our suppliers through contracts. BASIC GOALS FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING 1. Develop personnel at all levels to constantly strive to obtain new knowledge and to acquire empirical reasoning ability from a broad perspective. 2. Train staff to be dedicated as leaders in their field by utilizing their knowledge and experience. 3. Develop personnel who can overcome any adversity and strive towards achieving targets. 4. Train staff to place the highest value on teamwork, resulting from the combined efforts of all individuals. BASIC POLICY FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING 1. All employees will use every available opportunity to enhance self-development. 2. Those in leadership positions will exemplify model behavior at all times. 3. The emphasis of education is on-the-job training led by the supervisors through daily operations. Supplementary training off the job is also provided. 4. Each head of all management levels will appraise staff fairly and conduct effective training programs periodically and consistently. 5. Appraisals for each head of all management levels is based, as a general rule, on the success of staff education and training. Since ROHM’s inception, the environment that surrounds the company has changed to note the rise of an information-oriented society and diversification of values among the people, but these policies remain unchanged and serve as the driving force of business activities. ROHM CSR Report 2011 02 Top Message Satoshi Sawamura President ROHM Co., Ltd. For a sustainable society 50 years down the road via innovation On behalf of all the people at ROHM, I wish to extend our heartfelt sympathies to those who were struck by the recent Great East Japan Earthquake. We wish a fast recovery and want you to know that our prayers are always with you. The Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011 left big scars behind. ROHM Group, too, suffered from the earthquake at two sites in the Tohoku region: OKI Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. and ROHM Tsukuba Co., Ltd.. Fortunately enough, all the employees are safe, but the two sites were forced to temporarily shut down operations. Within the first 15 minutes after the disaster occurred, however, a special task force for disaster management was established in the head office, and information on damage and situations was being collected and checked. From the very next day, relief goods began to be delivered to the disaster-hit areas centering on Miyagi Prefecture. I am really proud of our staff for the swift response they took. For the two disaster-affected companies, the head office provided full-scale support and, once the infrastructure was restored, we were able to promptly restore operations. At ROHM, Business Continuity Management (BCM) has been deployed in-house in order to achieve our Company Mission: “Quality is our top priority at all times. Our objective is to contribute to the advancement and progress of our culture through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, of high quality products in large volume to the global market.” We think that our daily steady, consistent activities resulted in ensuring safety and an early recovery. With this recent earthquake disaster serving as an important lesson, our BCM will be revised for more sophisticated content and the efforts of the whole ROHM Group will be reinforced. In response to the power shortage, too, serious efforts will be made to conserve electricity and, at the same time, the self-sufficient energy supply system will be investigated anew. Now, we feel the necessity of defining what a sustainable energy society should be for future generations. 03 ROHM CSR Report 2011 We support the UN Global Compact. What is the UN Global Compact? The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary initiative for businesses who are committed to exercising responsible and creative leadership, acting as a good member of the society, and participating in the building of a global framework for achieving sustainable growth. Signatories to the UNGC develop activities to achieve sustainable growth under the commitment of the company’s top officers, and align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. ROHM supports the United Nations sustainable development. This defines our basic agreement Global Compact and adopt it as a with the CSR concept and indicates the direction in which the company should move. On the other hand, it global action principle of all employees. demands that we manage our business with a long-term In May 2011, ROHM officially declared its support viewpoint of dimensions different from those in the past, of the “Ten Principles of the United Nations Global in order to work toward the greater objective of sustainable Compact (UNGC)” that the United Nations advocates. development for society. To date, ROHM has communicated the CSR concept to The semiconductor industry is said to have a fast its employees via Company Mission, Basic Management product cycle and to be difficult to predict even 2 to 3 Policy, and ROHM Group Business Conduct Guidelines years down the road. Under such circumstances, we made based on them. In the future, ROHM will develop daily our fiftieth anniversary feted in 2008 an occasion to business activities in line with this UNGC. hammer out a “NEXT50” vision that focuses our sights The reason why we declared our support of the UNGC on what ROHM should be in the next 50 years. This is is that ROHM expects not only all employees of the because we thought it important to further strengthen Group but also suppliers, vendors and stakeholders to conventional systems and to quickly respond to major understand the social responsibilities shared throughout social changes in order to keep growing as a company the world. In many regions beyond our borders, there that can fight it out successfully amongst worldwide exist social problems that ROHM finds difficult to solve competition. In this age, we are at a big turning point. them on its own. Moving forward, ROHM wants to work By being the first to catch the tide could result in big in cohort with stakeholders in addressing resolutions. business opportunities, but let us be mindful; taking the wrong actions would certainly mean management risks. Moving forward, we will establish long-term targets and set policies on harmful emissions, conservation of ROHM sets our targets on a long-term biodiversity, and other issues in order to achieve a sustainable society. In particular, with respect to harmful viewpoint. emissions, we will have our sights set not only on reducing In November 2010, Guidance Standard “ISO 26000” the greenhouse gases emitted from our business activities was issued by the International Standardization but also will investigate targets with the entire product Organization (ISO) for the various organizations of the life cycle taken into account so as to reduce environmental world to promote social responsibilities. In the guidance, impacts of final products at the time of use. it is stated that the comprehensive objective of an organization’s social responsibilities is to contribute to ROHM CSR Report 2011 04 Top Message Action assignment concerning sustainability What ROHM should be in 50 years Creating new values HUMAN RIGHTS NEXT50 through innovative LABOUR Four new growth products engines ENVIRONMENT ROHM s DNA ANTI-CORRUPTION Company Mission Synergy Power strategy device and Policies strategy ICs LEDs LED Sensing Value created by communication Transistors Laser Diodes device strategy and cooperation with stakeholders Diodes Resistors strategy 1960 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 2060 Reinforcing the CSR system to quickly that could be said the synergy of both companies have respond to changes. already been obtained. The “LED strategy” is being developed around the In December 2007, ROHM located the CSR Affairs LED lighting business, a field new to ROHM. Not only Department within the Environmental Management LED elements but also a wider range of products related Division as an expert organization to promote CSR. to LED lighting including driver ICs, power supply Because CSR requires quick decision-making to modules, sensors, system control ICs, and others are part manage long-term prospects, immediate problems and of targeted lineups. Making the best of these technologies, requests from a broad range of stakeholders, it was ROHM develops system solutions for LED lighting decided to newly establish a CSR Committee under the and at the same time puts on the market LED lighting direct control of the President. Strengthening the that reduce power consumption. management system is an important measure for the The “Power device strategy” is designed to open up long-term growth of business, beyond the bounds of markets by aggressively developing “Eco-devices” that merely responding to social responsibilities. contribute to energy-savings and reduce loads placed on the of global environment. In addition, ROHM is also placing emphasis on power semiconductors using advanced material silicon carbide (SiC). In April 2010, Through our businesses, ROHM will ROHM began production of Schottky Barrier diodes challenge itself to solve social problems (SBD) using SiC for the first time in Japan’s semiconductor manufacturing industry and, in December 2010, began that future generations might face. production of SiC transistors (DMOSFET) for the first ROHM is undertaking specific strategies in order to time in the world, thus contributing to energy conservation continue its contribution to society via sustainable growth worldwide. for the next 50 years. This is spelled out in our “NEXT50” The “Sensing device strategy” is an approach to the vision as four new growth engine themes: “Synergy sensing device market, which is expanding into various strategy,” “LED strategy,” “Power device strategy,” and fields to note smartphones, automotive safety devices, “Sensing device strategy.” and security systems. With the addition of Kionix Inc., a The “Synergy strategy” aims to create new added-values pioneer of MEMS acceleration sensor technology, to and open up new markets by merging technologies that ROHM Group, solutions will be even more improved ROHM has fostered to date with outstanding technologies by constructively utilizing results of research and outside of ROHM. Leading this effort is collaboration development departments to flexibly meet various with OKI Semiconductor Co., Ltd., which has outstanding needs. Needs for sensors are increasing year by year in digital IC technologies. In product development, results a wide range of fields other than electronics, such as 05 ROHM CSR Report 2011 As an environmentally advanced company, ROHM continues on the path of innovations that serve the world’s transformation to a sustainable society, and ROHM’s long-term growth. medical care, etc. one another and respect different opinions, we think that With its four new growth engines positioned at the creative ideas and innovative proposals are generated. core, ROHM has the potential to contribute strongly to ROHM thoroughly makes Company Mission and Basic every field of future society. Management Policy known to all employees, because Needless to say, it is not easy to solve social issues. knowing which directions we should be headed in serves Ideas and approaches that break with what is conceived as the basis for accepting diversity. as common sense in conventional business practices are In order to achieve true diversity, we will move forward needed. In ROHM, we use the expression, “More than with our approaches while consistently improving work Moore.” This means innovation that merges technologies environments. of dissimilar fields and new materials on the premise of When a company shows the way things should be and “Moore’s Law.” A culture of not pursuing conventional employees understand and share the company’s goals, trends but creating completely new technologies has then the company and employees can apply their abilities taken root at ROHM. in the same direction. If we can do this, we can make a large contribution towards achieving a sustainable society. ROHM will never stop staking challenges in the future, either. We look forward to the continued support of all ROHM strives to be an organization of of our valued stakeholders. great variety on the foundations of our Company Mission and Basic Management Policy. More than 20,000 employees work at ROHM around the world. In order for ROHM to continue growing in the years to come, we must create an environment where everyone of our employees can exhibit the maximum of his/her capabilities, and aim at being an organization that has its own character and gives our employees great satisfaction to be a part of. What is necessary for this is “Diversity.” People have diverse ways of thinking and values, as they comprise various attributes such as gender, nationality, culture, region, age, lifestyle and others. In a workplace where employees of diverse characteristics communicate with ROHM CSR Report 2011 06 CSR Management The foundation of CSR management of ROHM Group is local communities into its activities, reflects priorities in to disseminate and exercise Company Mission and Basic corporate strategies, and makes continuous efforts Management Policy. For this purpose, ROHM Group Basic through the PDCA cycle. CSR Policy stipulates approaches to the road ahead for ROHM Group enhances corporate value and continues each stakeholder. ROHM consistently develops global creating innovations that can satisfy both the “world’s activities in line with ROHM Group Basic CSR Policy. transformation to a sustainable society” and “ROHM’s In addition, through two-way communications via long-term growth,” by globally conducting activities based CSR reports, stakeholder dialogues and so forth, on Company Mission and Basic Management Policy. ROHM incorporates the views of customers, business partners, employees, shareholders and investors, and Dissemination and practice of Communication Company Mission and Basic with stakeholders Management Policy We wholeheartedly conduct our business activities from a global point ROHM Group of view in conformity with ROHM’s Company Mission and Basic Management Policy in order to contribute to the sustainable development Basic CSR Policy of society. We also establish good relationships with the below stakeholders, work for the trust of society, and aim at sustainable growth of the company. Customers: ROHM seeks to obtain their satisfaction and confidence by continued supply of high quality products and services in a timely and appropriate manner. ROHM is also open to customers’ P.19 views and suggestions, and will evaluate them internally. ROHM places the highest priority on the safety of its products and strives to disclose relevant information as necessary. Business ROHM selects its business partners according to equitable and rational criteria. ROHM Partners: values the relationship with its business partners and conducts equal and fair transactions P.20 for mutual prosperity. Employees: ROHM strives to ensure a safe and pleasant working environment, respect human values and individuality, and create a fair and appropriate workplace where each employee may P.21 demonstrate individual initiative. Shareholders ROHM aims at continuously improving the corporate value and securing appropriate and Investors: profits, thereby providing a steady return to both shareholders and investors. ROHM P.22 offers financial information in order to keep shareholders and investors actively informed. Local Societies ROHM will deepen the exchange with each country and local community, respect their and Communities: culture and history, and implement and support social contribution activities as well as P.23 cultural and art activities. ROHM also takes the initiative to preserve the global environment throughout its daily business activities. 07 ROHM CSR Report 2011 Expectations and requests from society World s transformation to a sustainable Do society Narrowing down priority issues Plan Management Check Innovation to address Act Long-term growth of ROHM Business strategy of ROHM Group ROHM CSR Report 2011 08 ROHM in the Value Chain Priority Stable Supply of High Before products are delivered to consumers, various stakeholders are involved in the relevant processes. The issues Quality Products value chain is an activity that increases added-value in a series of flows from the purchase of raw materials to the use of products and services. In this process, ROHM recognizes the roles that ROHM Group must fulfill. And, Business Partners: ROHM undertakes CSR activities with focus on issues of ROHM procures from hundreds of business partners with CSR taken into account, including green procurement of high importance and priority. product materials, components, and supplies that do not It is essential for growth that ROHM Group create contain harmful chemical substances. innovative products that help solve social issues. Approaches to issues that result from climate change are just one example. The demand for energy-saving products is expected to increase all the more because of the steep r i s e i n e n e r g y p r i c e s , r e s t r i c t i o n s o n greenhouse gas emissions, etc.. ROHM Group will make the best of its technologies accumulated to date and create new values, such as by developing power devices that can greatly reduce product energy loss as well as LED lighting that conserves energy. In the future, rapid globalization and rapid market changes are expected. It is urgently needed to cultivate human resources who can Shareholders and a d d re s s g l o b a l p ro b l e m s a n d c re a t e n e w v a l u e s . Investors: Furthermore, unchanged since our founding, it has been ROHM provides a steady return to an important mission at ROHM to constantly supply shareholders and investors who support ROHM by securing products inside and outside Japan in large quantities, appropriate profits. and to contribute to the development and progress of cultures. Local Societies and Communities: ROHM constructively implements social action programs, cultural activities and support efforts in order to contribute to social development as a good corporate citizen. 18countries 928million yen Number of countries with Total amount of aid for social ROHM sites action programs 09 ROHM CSR Report 2011 Solutions to Social Issues via Global Human Resources Innovative Products Development Customers: ROHM supports products produced by a wide range of customers in electronics industry, automotive industry, medical industry, etc. ROHM Group: The Group handles ICs, transistors, diodes, LEDs, and other semiconductors, and pursues its original unique technologies. Employees: R O H M a g g re s s i v e l y h i re s l o c a l human resources and professionals to play an active role throughout the Consumers: world. Billions of people enjoy using products containing ROHM components throughout the world. 341,885million yenen 21,560persons ons 11.1％ Sales amount Number of employees Percentage of sales amount throughout the world expensed for R&D ROHM CSR Report 2011 10 ROHM has set “Quality First” as the company mission and consistently Quality assurance reinforces corporate quality assurance systems in order to quickly and stably from the customer s respond to customer requirements and to provide them with products of superb viewpoint performance and functioning. The quality assurance department is involved in all processes, but above all, it is a big characteristic of ROHM that the quality assurance department participates in the sourcing phase to note “New product planning,” “Design” and “Prototyping.” This enables us to analyze troubles that occurred in the past as well as analyze potential risks in customer use. Analysis results are fed back to design reviews (DR) to ensure quality from the customer’s viewpoint. Furthermore, ROHM has an IC product development department specialized in onboard electric components, which is another characteristic of ROHM scarcely seen amongst its competitors. ROHM stays in quick close communication with customers, and conducts activities with the goal of reporting back to customers within 24 hours of receiving an inquiry. Cleanroom Stable Supply of High Quality Products Put ourselves in the customer’s shoes and make everyone in the company practice a spirit of “Quality First.” Imposing a higher level of requirement on ourselves leads to Samples are stored by lots to ensure quality customers could trust. traceability. In recent years, with automotive computerization as a First of all, ROHM has built a system for stably supplying backdrop back, the electronic components market for products of the same quality level from any plant in the onboard devices has grown rapidly. On the other hand, the world. By bringing the 4Ms—namely, Man, Machine, failure of a single small component can result in a serious Material, and Method—to the same level at plants around car accident. Consequently, onboard components must the world, variations in products are kept to a minimum. guarantee more than 10 years of long-term durability Moreover, unique screening criteria has been established. without failure, and, as of recent years, parts must be For example, in the event that the customer requests a traceable. The performance level that onboard components warranty for an environment of 85°C, ROHM evaluates require is far higher than that of other components. the components to their breaking point (not lower than ROHM not only thoroughly familiarizes itself with customer 150°C), and performs 100% inspection tests at 125°C. requirement levels as well as JASO, AEC, ISO and other Doing this ensures design allowances (robustness) and public standards, but also takes action to anticipate such high quality products. ROHM also individualizes test requirements. frequencies and sample storage periods. In particular, automobiles are used for a long period of time and even a single nonconformity poses a big problem. Consequently, component samples are stored by lots so that the extent of impact of a failed component can be quickly identified and the causes can be found immediately even if a nonconformity occurs. Furthermore, it is another characteristic of ROHM to have an IC product development department specialized in onboard devices. The main role of this department is, in the design phase, to incorporate heavy-duty environments specific to automobiles into functions and circuits. Specifically, they look at wear and deterioration of Responding speedily with cutting-edge analysis equipment 11 ROHM CSR Report 2011 Quality assurance system of ROHM Group Customer comments fed back to sources Feedback to design and standards Market requests Development Design reviews Production Customer evaluation migration Manufacture Inspection Shipping from customers review meetings DR1 to DR4 (Initial production control) Customer satisfaction New product planning Design and prototyping Manufacture and shipping Quality assurance department Participation of product development, engineering, manufacture, QC and other all related departments QA Centers in 10 locations ons around the wor world Kyoto Head Office Korea Kor Shinyokohama Germany Shanghai Thailand United States Singapore Singapo Taiwan Hong Kong Quality onboard products, their mechanisms, identification of maximum life spans, and more. Even though component manufacturers can understand internal causes and deterioration mechanisms that occur over time, it is difficult to obtain information on external causes after their components are delivered to consumers. To date, we have focused our attention on “Not producing defectives” in component units and “Products that do not break,” but with the viewpoint shifted more to the customer’s side, we are making more detailed discussions with automakers, etc. with respect to various usages, and are collecting data. Accurately understanding usage on the customer’s side on the presumption of critical evaluations enables us to provide products that precisely satisfy customer requirements in a timely manner. The results of ROHM’s approach to high quality and high reliability have become indispensable for the development of automobiles, which continue to evolve with the computerization of an “Intelligent Car” in the background. Koji Asano Hideki Hiromoto Corporate Quality Corporate Quality Assurance Division Assurance Division ROHM CSR Report 2011 12 Presently, action against climate change is urgently needed and all companies Reasons why are engaged in fierce competition over energy-saving performance. Under SiC devices draw such circumstances, there is a semiconductor material that electric power attention companies, automakers, electronics manufacturers and others are placing big hopes as a “Trump card for energy conservation.” It is SiC (silicon carbide). A power semiconductor is utilized for electric power control in electric power converters such as converters and inverters. To date, Si (silicon) has been the nucleus of power semiconductor materials, but replacing Si semiconductors with SiC semiconductors foretells of great improvements in efficiency and miniaturization. As a result, power losses can be reduced to as little as one-tenth. Train Looking to reduce size and weight of inverter equipment. Production plant Looking to reduce electric power losses and reduce size Electric power SiC wafer of production equipment. transmission system Looking to reduce power losses. Solutions to Social Issues via Innovative Products Advanced power semiconductors as key devices of an energy-saving revolution. Eyes on the innovative In spite of that, ROHM patiently and steadily continued investigations and, in 2004, began joint research with characteristics of SiC and growth as Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. who drew attention to the an industry leader possibilities of SiC devices. In 2008, an SiC diode of new construction was made public. ROHM has announced a ROHM has had its eyes on the attractiveness of SiC series of research results that have attracted the attention since early on, and has studied the material for more of industry, including a full-SiC IPM (Intelligent Power than 10 years. At that time, however, there were only few Module) jointly developed with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. companies who could supply high quality SiC wafers In 2009, ROHM drew a leading SiC wafer manufacturer, (boards) that could be fed into a manufacturing line. SiCrystal AG, into its orbit, and achieved an integrated Furthermore, because of a difficult manufacturing method production system from wafers to assembly, which was and quality control, there was a price difference of about 10 times between devices made of Si and Integrated development and production those made of SiC. There system of SiC power semiconductors was no sign of market from wafer to module expansion. Consequently, Wafer even at ROHM, research was frustrating for some time. Kazuhide Ino SiC Power Device Device Module Production Division SiCrystal AG 13 ROHM CSR Report 2011 What is more important is the breadth of its applications. SiC devices can be utilized for electric power transmission systems and trains, electric vehicles, production equipment, and even personal computers. According to the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO), in 2030, the energy-saving effects achieved by applications of SiC devices will reach 53,900,000 kL/year (crude oil equivalent). Predicted energy effect by application of SiC devices by 2030 Crude oil equivalent: 10,000 kL/year 5,390 Server 5,000 Looking to reduce power losses 4,000 of servers and to reduce power 3,000 Source: consumption of data centers. FED reconsigned 2,000 survey on NEDOʼs 1,000 energy-saving rolling review 0 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 (year) Personal computers (When effect of general inverters is included) Looking to miniaturize AC adapters and build into notebook PC. Home electric appliances Innovation Looking to further save energy of air-conditioners and Photovoltaic cells Electric vehicle IH cooking heaters. Looking to increase power Looking to reduce size and conditioner efficiency. weight of cooling mechanism. unprecedented anywhere in the world. In April 2010, ROHM power module. The module is mounted inside an production of SiC SBDs (Schottky Barrier Diode) began, inverter, which converts the direct current electric power which was the first in Japan and accomplished by only a of the battery into alternating current so as to drive the few companies around the world. motor. It is playing a key role in electric automobiles. In December 2010, production This, however, is achieved by the Si module. If the SiC of SiC transistors (DMOSFET) diode were possible for inverter devices, it is expected began for the first time in the that the volume would be reduced to less than one half. world, too. When the electric power converter is miniaturized, the The principal use of an SiC cooling device that cools the heat of the converter can SBD is the PFC (power factor be miniaturized. This synergic effect will result in cost correction) circuit mounted in reductions. In April 2010, ROHM succeeded in developing air-conditioners, flat-screen an ultracompact power module that could be built into televisions, etc. Replacing all Si motors of electric vehicles, etc. The company is promoting diodes currently assembled in development for a practical application in two to three circuits with SiC SBDs can years. improve the power efficiency of ROHM will continue striving to develop power home electric appliances by as semiconductors as an essential component of electric much as 4%. vehicles, which will greatly change the whole concept of SiC SBD that greatly contributes mobility in the future. to energy-saving in home electric appliances SiC fueling great expectations in advanced automobiles such as Applied portion and its HV (hybrid vehicles) and mechanism EV (electric vehicles) Direct current Alternating current The possibilities of SiC are not limited to home electric appliances. The Nissan LEAF, which Nissan launched in Japan in December 2010 as a zero-emission car, emits Battery module Inverter Power Motor conversion zero CO², that is, no exhaust gases. The LEAF adopts a ROHM CSR Report 2011 14 In order for ROHM to further grow as a true global company, it is essential Need for human to employ and nurture diverse human resources of varying nationality, age, resources development gender, etc. ROHM thinks it important to constructively employ local human across borders and resources and, at the same time, to share the Company Mission and Policies, regions which are ROHM’s DNA, with them. By this, irrespective of country or region, employees are able to conduct themselves in line with the same objectives and policies, and can provide products and services of the same quality. Consequently, training is provided with trainers sent abroad or with overseas trainees invited to the head office, and ROHM’s DNA is thereby passed down around the world. ROHM nurtures human resources who can understand, accept and work in concert with people of different backgrounds and values with the ultimate goal of creating new values. Global Human Resources Development ROHM nurtures human resources who present a global academia-industry collaboration in various arenas. Through joint studies with Tsinghua of “ROHM Plaza” on the campuses of Ritsumeikan University, Doshisha University, and Kyoto University and University, China, people learn from donates to each university. These schools are located in each other and grow together. Kyoto, ROHM’s hometown. ROHM Plaza was opened in 2000 at Ritsumeikan University, in 2003 at Doshisha ROHM thinks that developing new and useful University, and in 2005 at Kyoto University. At ROHM technologies for society contributes to the progress and Plaza, management is completely entrusted to the advancement of culture and society, and actively and universities, and excellent education and industry-university extensively joins hands with research institutions, joint researches are conducted to advance Japanese universities, companies in different countries and fields. technologies. In particular, in order to promote cooperation with Over the years, ROHM has initiated mutual exchanges universities, ROHM is involved in projects under the title and created an environment of learning from one other by achieving academia-industry collaboration with universities around the world, too. In April 2006, ROHM signed a Comprehensive Academia-Industry Collaboration Agreement with Tsinghua University, China, and began joint studies. ROHM strives to nurture human resources who can judge things from a global standpoint through international academia-industry collaboration. What becomes a problem when academia-industry collaboration is carried out overseas is communication. Currently with the inter net widespread, email is an e x t re m e l y c o n v e n i e n t t o o l , b u t i t i s s t i l l d i ff i c u l t t o comprehend the subtle nuances implied in the messages. ROHM, therefore, has established a system that invites joint researchers from Tsinghua University to ROHM for one month to cooperate in research and development. This period is used as an opportunity for researchers of both parties to learn different culture from each other and Over the two days from May 17 to 18, 2010, joint on-the-job connect this experience to successful research results. training with respect to ROHMʼs DNA, sharing future business For the researchers visiting Japan, too, it is a precious directions, etc. was provided to 41 engineers affiliated with Design Centers at Shenzhen, Shanghai, and Tianjin. experience to utilize state-of-the-art facilities and conduct joint studies with ROHM researchers. 15 ROHM CSR Report 2011 Members of Research and Development Headquarters (from left to right) Tsuyoshi Satomi Toshihiro Kimura Akira Kamisawa Hiroki Tsujimura Kentaro Tamura Growth Among joint research themes, there are themes that ROHM donated and opened the “Tsinghua-ROHM have already been actualized as needs of the world, but Electronic Engineering Hall” in April 2011 on the occasion there are many potential seeds, too. The project leader is of the 100th anniversary celebration of Tsinghua University. re q u i re d t o s h a re h i s / h e r f i r m b e l i e f w i t h re s e a rc h Before opening the hall, relationships of mutual trust and members and cohorts that “Research results will benefit human relationships were built via academia-industry many Chinese people and other people around the world,” collaboration projects. By opening the hall, various and drive the project forward. In addition, the project projects have been launched, and people-to-people leader bears the important role of promoting the project exchanges with Tsinghua University have intensified more while constantly being aware of both academic results as than ever. ROHM hopes to accelerate the nurturing of a researcher and business results as a company. human resources who can play an active part around the world through interchanges across borders and fields. Japan China ROHM Plaza at Ritsumeikan University ROHM Plaza at Kyoto University Ritsumeikan University Doshisha University Kyoto University Tohoku University Kyushu University People-to-people ROHM Plaza at Doshisa University and others. exchanges Increased R&D power Tsinghua ROHM Electronics Engineering Hall Americas Tsinghua University Xi an Jiaotong University University of Arkansas University of Electronic Science University of California, and Technology of China Santa Barbara Tongji University Cornell University Zhejiang University and others. and others. Commemorative ceremony for University of Arkansas Tsinghua-ROHM Electronic Engineering Hall ROHM CSR Report 2011 16 Development Based on Global Stan Global activities are being inspected, adjusted and validated in the light of ISO26000 and In November 2010, Guidance Standard ISO26000 was published by the International Standardization Organization (ISO), which various organizations in the world refer to in promoting their social responsibilities. ROHM will verify its business activities of the whole group are in compliance with the international standard, including the seven core subjects of ISO26000. EUROPE ASIA In Europe, in 2006, the RoHS ROHM Group aggressively promotes glo gl global business development. In Directive＊1 went into effect. In 2007, fact, f overseas production ratio reached 62%. In order to operate a o has reach the REACH Regulation＊2 came into customer-based t b d business, b i ROHM concentrates its overseas production effect. These regulations ban the use sites in Asia. In recent years, Asia has achieved spectacular growth, which of chemical substances that affect has been followed by rapid changes in social structures. The circumstances human health and the environment, have made it necessary to create a system for listening more attentively to and require businesses to follow what employees think and have to say. ROHM Group has established labor processes for registering, appraising, unions and an employee representative system as the first means for gaining approval, and restricting use understanding what employees at home and abroad think, and is forever of chemical substances. ROHM striving to build good labor-management relations. Group has identified 77 substances, ROHM is involved in cultural initiatives via academia-industry collaboration, including those regulated by the too. At the Thai production site, ROHM is collaborating with a national environment-related laws and those university to improve the environment so that employees can learn Japanese voluntarily banned, as part of the after joining the company, which has led to a newly established Japanese careful steps taken in business course, and provide them with education opportunities. In addition to this, activities to protect the environment. ROHM constructively engages in afforestation activities to plant mangroves, ＊1: RoHS Directive community cleanup activities, environmental preservation activities and Restrictions on Hazardous Substances educational activities, too. EU Directive on the restriction of the Furthermore, ROHM Group thinks it important to thoroughly understand use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment regional characteristics in its approach to the environment whether at home or abroad. In order to reduce the environmental load of business activities in ＊2: REACH Regulation European chemical substance regulation the Philippines, wastewater from the production site is not discharged to Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, the nearby laguna, which is incidentally the largest inland body of water Authorisation and Restriction of in the Philippines, but is instead treated in a closed wastewater treatment Chemicals system that was introduced to protect the environment. This revolutionary system renders wastewater harmless by condensing the chemically neutralized wastewater and completely evaporating the liquid component with a dryer. ROHM is making efforts to coexist with the natural environment via hardworking steady activities such as this. 17 ROHM CSR Report 2011 dards What is ISO26000? other international standards. Standard concerning social responsibilities that is developed as Organizational a multi-stakeholder process and governance applied to all types of organizations. The ultimate objective of the social responsibilities of an organization is to contribute to sustainable Human rights development. ＊Sustainable development: The term “sustainable development” is defined as “development that satisfies the needs of the current generation without impairing the ability to serve the needs of future generations.” Labour Community practices involvement and development The Consumer environment issues Fair operating practices JAPAN AMERICAS ROHM has established company companywide y wide committees for compliance,, In the United States, it is essential environmental preservation, information informatio on disclosure, discl risk management, BCM, M, to secure and manage patents and and d others th tto promote ti iti as a nucleus of global business t CSR activities th iintellectual other t ll t l property t rights i ht iin development and fulfilling our social responsibilities. In addition, ROHM order for customers to use ROHM’s created a CSR promotion department as a specialist organization for products with confidence. For this promoting CSR. This department bears the role of promoting the global purpose, ROHM has taken a development of CSR. By newly establishing a CSR committee under direct proactive position with regards to control of the President, ROHM moved to a system that enable quick applying for patents. As a result, the decision-making on CSR long-term prospects and problems at hand, as number of registered patents has well as diverse requests from stakeholders. In addition, in May 2011, surpassed the number of patents in ROHM declared its support of the UN Global Compact, and will Japan. constructively incorporate the platform into management strategies and In addition, corporate business daily corporate activities of ROHM Group. can be impeded by harassment. ROHM also constructively addresses the prevention of corruption. A ROHM is taking constructive steps compliance hotline has been set up not only at our Head Office but also at to prevent harassment by requiring affiliated companies at home and abroad, to ensure fair business practices. absolute compliance of all corporate With regard to the procurement of raw materials, the main materials are members and is shaping an purchased en bloc by the Head Office. To thoroughly communicate CSR organizational climate so that procurement to business partners, questionnaires aimed at identifying harassment does not occur. current situations have been sent out and audits are performed. Customers of ROHM Group are primarily manufacturers of the electronics and automotive industries. Ahead of the customers are consumers. We must manufacture final products that consumers can safely use and that place less burden on the environment. ROHM thoroughly controls chemical substances contained in products, discloses information to customers and consumers, and computes the carbon footprint＊3 of main products. ROHM thus supplies products of low overall environmental load when assessed by LCA (life cycle assessment). ＊3: Carbon footprint The emission rates of greenhouse effect gas discharged in each process of the product lifecycle, from manufacture to disposal, are added together as the total emission rate, then converted and indicated as a CO² emission rate ROHM CSR Report 2011 18 Commitment to Customers ROHM seeks to obtain their satisfaction and confidence by continued supply of high quality products and services in a timely and appropriate manner. ROHM is also open to customers’ views and suggestions, and will evaluate them internally. ROHM places the highest priority on the safety of its products and strives to disclose relevant information as necessary. Efforts to be made Sustainability themes Efforts made before 2010 in and after 2011 ROHM performed detailed ROHM is promoting essential Customer satisfaction and stratified verification against improvement measures against increased trust in ROHM by quality issues at QA Centers root causes for the 4Ms — thorough analysis of quality around the world, analyzed the namely, MAN, MACHINE, issues and promotion of trends, and pursued the root MATERIAL, and METHOD — improvement activities. causes. and is building databases. ROHM accurately identifies ROHM worked together with ROHM is strengthening needs of customers and sites in various regions around cooperation by thoroughly develops products that lead the the world and built systems that sharing information in world. can directly reflect requests of development, sales, and local customers. manufacturing. In-depth quality control education Thorough analysis and improvement activities for quality issues In order for development, sales and manufacturing personnel to practice a ROHM’s management policy of ROHM Group has QA Centers in 10 locations around “Quality First” in all aspects of customer support, ROHM the world so that the Group is consistently able to meet Group is strongly committed to quality control personnel customer quality requirements from the location closest to education. ROHM aims at developing human resources them. Meticulously analyzing past quality issues that who are not only conversant with QC techniques, reliability occurred identifies root causes of the problem and enables techniques, etc., but who can also face problems squarely the QA Centers to take appropriate measures to prevent in-house in conformity with a spirit of “The customer as the same quality issue from recurring. In the future, these the next process” and “Quality as thoughtfulness for root cause measures will be promoted from the viewpoints others,” and respond to customers in a sincere manner. of the 4Ms – namely, MAN, MACHINE, MATERIAL, and METHOD – and, at the same time, will be compiled into a A global system in close relation with database for accumulating know-how. customers Appraisals from customers ROHM Group has established a global system that enables it to be as close to customers as possible and to ROHM addresses improvements to quality, delivery quickly provide customers with products that precisely and cost across the entire ROHM Group. ROHM’s efforts satisfy their requirements. Development sites exist in 11 are highly appraised by many customers, as it has main regions and each site is staffed with development received the following awards from customers, just to engineers. mention a few. Development, sales, and manufacturing personnel have built an integrated support system by forming a trinity and accelerating manufacture that satisfies local needs. Principal awards received Customer Awards Panasonic ECO-VC Award Gold Prize Zebra Technologies Supplier of the Year S&O Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Best Bender Award Welling Holding Limited Technological R&D Contribution Award European Design Center Pioneer Manufacturing Thailand Best Supplier s Award Grand Prix Sony Malaysia Best Supplier Award Shanghai Design Center And many others. 19 ROHM CSR Report 2011 Commitment to Business Partners ROHM selects its business partners according to equitable and rational criteria. ROHM values the relationship with its business partners and conducts equal and fair transactions for mutual prosperity. Efforts to be made Sustainability themes Efforts made before 2010 in and after 2011 Penetration and completeness Concluded basic transaction of policies concerning equal agreements with business Establishment of CSR audit and fair CSR procurement. partners of ROHM Group. system and global deployment The CSR promotion system is constructed across the entire Started introducing a CSR Completion of introduction of supply chain together with self-evaluation program to CSR self-evaluation program to business partners. business partners of ROHM business partners of ROHM Thorough control and operation of Group. Group. chemical substances in conformity Started registering all chemical Completion of initial registration with Green Procurement Guidelines in order to achieve controls in substances contained in materials of all chemical substances of accordance with the RoHS in conformity with revised Green ROHM Group Directive and REACH Regulations. Procurement Guidelines. CSR procurement In addition, ROHM Group obtains accurate information In addition to checking plant audit results, environmental on environmental load substances and has built a system evaluation certification results, ISO acquisition conditions, that prevents banned substances from mixing into etc., ROHM Group periodically evaluates business partners. products. ROHM Group will continually strive to Furthermore, ROHM Group prescribes the following reinforce the control system further, deepen mutual items as CSR promotion items and encourages business understanding with business partners, and manufacture partners to conduct business activities with CSR taken products with the environment taken into account. into account. In 2010, ROHM Group worked hard to encourage all business partners of ROHM Group to provide information on environmental load substances in conformity with the Matters to be observed in the basic revised “Green Procurement Guidelines REV002.” ‑ transaction agreement ‑ ❶ Human rights and Prohibition of forced labor. Case of Malaysia labor: ❷ Safety and hygiene: Safety measures for In 2011, we will conclude a compliance agreement mechanical equipment, based on the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct workplace safety and hygiene. (EICC) with all our business partners. For this ❸ Environment: Control of chemical purpose, in 2010, we sent out and recovered CSR substances included in products. questionnaires to and from all our 120 business partners of our production site in Malaysia. Results of ❹ Fair transactions Prohibition of abuses of and ethics: dominant bargaining position. our own evaluation criteria indicated that Category A ❺ Quality and safety: Ensure product safety. business partners accounted for 82.5% and Category B business partners for 17.5%. In 2011, this CSR ❻ Information security: Defense against network threats. program will be continued and in June, October, and ❼ Social contribution: Contribution to society and December, auditing of business partners is planned, local communities. too. These activities help us to understand and deepen our knowledge of CSR. We will strive to improve CSR across the whole supply chain. Managing environmental load substances Appraisal standard together with business partners Category Score In order to manufacture products of lesser environmental load, ROHM Group urges all of its business partners to A 105-70 further reinforce their environmental control systems and, B 69-53 at the same time, ask its business partners to ensure that ROHM Wako Electronics banned substances that ROHM stipulated are not used C 52-35 (Malaysia) Sdn.Bhd. Manager, Business Department or contained in any of the materials and indirect materials D 35〜 delivered to ROHM. Wong Pui Li ROHM CSR Report 2011 20 Commitment to Employees ROHM strives to ensure a safe and pleasant working environment, respect human values and individuality, and create a fair and appropriate workplace where each employee may demonstrate individual initiative. Efforts to be made Sustainability themes Efforts made before 2010 in and after 2011 Build ideal working conditions Introduced a system to upgrade Promoting introduction and with culture, habits, and other work-life balance measures and utilization of a system that diversities of various countries policies. enables various working styles. and various regions understood. Introduced new training to promote Creating opportunities to Promote diversity with an diversity, and refurbished and experience overseas life for emphasis on respecting the upgraded departmental training young people by introducing an humane nature and individuality systems. of each person. overseas trainee system. Reinforced human resource Nurture global human resources development via academia-industry Utilizing the Tsinghua ROHM who can create new values collaboration and donated to the Electronics Engineering Hall as across borders and regions. Tsinghua ROHM Electronics a site for academia-industry Engineering Hall. collaboration. Ensure a safe and comfortable workplace environment and Held events that promote employee Further reinforcing mental complete a system for promoting health and newly created a consultation health measures and fitness health of both body and mind. room for mental health issues. activities. Promotion of diversity Upgrades to education and training ROHM thinks that a diverse workforce is necessary ROHM directs energy and resources at departmental because of the way business is globalizing. In a workplace training. In 2009, ROHM established and has steadily where employees of diverse characteristics communicate implemented a sales education program for getting sales with one another and respect different opinions, we think personnel into the field more quickly, and streamlined the that creative ideas and innovative proposals are generated. sales education system for employees with up to 8 years As part of this, ROHM aggressively recruits foreign of job experience with the company. students. The employment ratio of foreign students has In addition to this, a total of 1,792 trainees participated increased every year: in 2009, foreign students accounted in 2010 training programs including specialist training. This for 7% of the workforce, in 2010, it increased to 10%, means that nearly one half the employees participated in and, in 2011, it reached 14%. some kind of training in one year. Upgraded measures for a good balance between work and private life Case of the Philippines A balance between work and private life is important for both individuals and the company. With the company The production site of the Philippines simultaneously offering the workforce flexible working styles, employees received the ”the Outstanding Employer Award” and are stimulated from their leading a fulfilling life and “the Outstanding Community Project Award” from the garnering precious experiences. This results in improved Philippines Economic Zone Authority in March 2011. It m o t i v a t i o n t o w a rd s w o r k a n d n e w i d e a s . R O H M was ROHM’s first outstanding employer award and the introduced a short-time service system in 2010, which is second outstanding community project award. Activities applicable to parents of children up to 3rd grade, as well of the labor-management committee, which promotes as a system that makes a portion of childcare leave a paid dialogues with employees, environmental concerns, holiday. Because of these systems, four male employees safety and social contributions, have been highly took childcare leave. ROHM upgrades the measures for a evaluated. good balance between work and private life and strives to improve the working environment. Approaches to safety and health The ROHM Head Office has maintained for 16 years a zero accident record that resulted in lost worktime. To achieve this same level of performance across the whole group, ROHM promotes organization-wide safety and health activities, and imparts risk assessments, KYT Award ceremony with Mr. Benigno S. Aquino (Kiken Yochi Training or risk prediction training), and III, President of the Philippines in attendance hiyari-hatto (close-call) activities. (March 24, 2011) 21 ROHM CSR Report 2011 Commitment to Shareholders and Investors ROHM aims at continuously improving the corporate value and securing appropriate profits, thereby providing a steady return to both shareholders and investors. ROHM offers financial information in order to keep shareholders and investors actively informed. Efforts to be made Sustainability themes Efforts made before 2010 in and after 2011 Disclosed information at the appropriate time and in the appropriate manner and Continuous implementation of Improved shareholder value by constructively developed IR activities. timely disclosure continuous growth of business and securing profits. Upgraded IR data for overseas Further improvement of investors and promoted the assessment by SRI Index exercising of voting rights. Basic policies General Shareholders Meeting Regarding profit distribution to shareholders, ROHM is ROHM has worked on vitalizing the general pressing forward with measures to meet expectations in shareholders meeting and making proxy voting run view of business performance, financial status and more smoothly. capital demands for investments aimed at increasing The measures taken to facilitate voting rights execution corporate value in the future. include issuing invitations approximately four weeks prior to the general shareholder meeting, posting an English IR activities translation of invitations, and the acceptance of proxies applications via the internet. ROHM has also focused on ROHM makes every effort to proactively communicate encouraging IR activities and voting rights based on with all shareholders and investors worldwide through IR surveys of foreign investors. activities that disclose fair, transparent, and concise Composition of shareholders information in a timely manner. Treasury Shares Financial Institutions Information disclosures 6.5% in Japan through the company website 21.8% Individuals and Others in Japan In order to provide all individual investors with information 10.9% Securities Companies in Japan in a timely manner, ROHM has established an investor’s 0.9% page on its website where a wide range of information relevant to investors is posted. This information includes Other Companies in Japan not only legally mandated disclosure documents, such as Overseas Investors 10.9% 49.0% financial results and financial statements, but also annual (as of March 31, 2011) reports, results briefings, and changes in financial data. Evaluation of socially responsible 〈 IR information 〉 investment [URL]▶http://www.rohm.com/financial/index.html In terms of socially responsible investment (SRI) in which corporate social, environmental, and ethical aspects are Results briefings and information meetings weighed in investment decisions, ROHM has achieved ROHM holds briefings for institutional investors such high evaluations from SRI-related survey institutions and as research analysts and fund managers. ROHM also been selected for listing on SRI indices. holds IR roadshows for overseas investors twice a year. Main SRI indices in which ROHM is included Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment (as of May 31, 2011) Results briefing for securities Briefing for overseas investors FTSE4Good Index Series analysts and institutional investors Ethibel Sustainability Index ROHM CSR Report 2011 22 Commitment to Local Societies and Communities ROHM will deepen the exchange with each country and local community, respect their culture and history, and implement and support social contribution activities as well as cultural and art activities. ROHM also takes the initiative to preserve the global environment throughout its daily business activities. Efforts to be made Sustainability themes Efforts made before 2010 in and after 2011 ROHM harmonizes with local Shared information and promoted ROHM will establish a social societies as a good corporate awareness of social contribution contribution policy and reinforce citizen and contributes to social activities of the ROHM Group. activities throughout the ROHM Group. development and integrity. Supported operations of the ROHM ROHM will continue sponsoring and ROHM contributes to the Music Foundation established in supporting concerts by up-and-coming dissemination and development 1991 for the purpose of young musicians and concerts held locally in of music culture of Japan through contributing to the dissemination Kyoto, and, at the same time, further musical activities and support. and development of music culture increase its contribution to the dissemination and support for the Kyoto and development of music culture of Japan. Appropriate donations and Symphony Orchestra. backup activities responding to ROHM will reinforce collaboration with the needs of communities and Gave donations to support recovery NPOs and NGOs by ROHM Group by society as a whole. from disasters at home and abroad. implementing volunteer activities. Social and cultural activities Social contribution activities Support activities for music culture Afforestation activities in Thailand Music is a fascinating art that connects people with In the past, there were 16,000,000 m² of mangrove people and demonstrates the possibilities of art and forests along the bay of Samut Prakan in Thailand, but culture. ROHM has held and supported a large number because of expanded industry and fisheries, at present, of concerts in the hope of contributing to the dissemination only 960,000 m² of forest area remains, which is only 6% and development of music culture, nurturing young talents, of the original size. In October 2010, 48 employees of and forming a spiritually affluent, pleasant social the engineering department of the production site in e n v i ro n m e n t t h ro u g h m u s i c . I n a d d i t i o n , R O H M Thailand volunteered to engage in afforestation activities established and supports the activities of the ROHM Music at the mouth of the river. This afforestation activity was Foundation for the purpose of conveying the splendor of linked to measures for preventing shoreline erosion by music to more people, promoting international exchange seawater. through music, and nurturing professional and young musicians. As an example of the foundation’s business, ROHM is constructively involved in the “Kyoto International Music Students Festival” and “Seminars of the ROHM Music Foundation” and jointly hosted the “Performances of the Seiji Ozawa Music Academy” and others. Furthermore, ROHM awards a scholarship to students majoring in music, too. There have been several prominent persons to Afforestation activities at the mouth of river in Thailand (Oct. 16, 2010) rise amongst past scholarship students and seminar attendants, to note Daishin Kashimoto, 1st concertmaster Donating educational materials of the Berliner Philharmoniker, Tatsuya Shimono, who to nursery school children received First Prize at the 47th Besancon International The production site in the Philippines donated books, Competition for Young Conductors, and many other coloring books, DVDs and other educational materials to musicians who are currently active in the world of music. children of a nursery school in Barangay. It is important ROHM continues to be involved in a wide variety of for the region that the educational environment for music support activities. children and young people be improved, so ROHM hopes to continue this kind of support. ©Tatsuo Sasaki ©Tatsuo Sasaki Activities that return value to society Donating to support recovery from large-scale natural disasters ROHM gave disaster donations to the Japanese Red Cross Society and other organizations in the aftermath of the foot-and-mouth epidemic in Miyazaki, the Great East Kyoto International Music Seminar (Conductor class) Japan Earthquake and the 2010 Yushu Earthquake in Students Festival China. 23 ROHM CSR Report 2011 Considerations for the Environment ROHM s everlasting conscientiousness to preserve the global environment Environmental Policy contributes to the healthy existence of humanity and to the continued prosperity of the company. ❶ Conserve energy by initiating innovative methods in ❹ Comply with international and national environmental all corporate activities. laws and regional agreements. ❷ Develop environment-conscious products that ❺ Endeavor to train employees and encourage our minimize the environmental burden by employing constituents to actively care for their surroundings responsible processes throughout the life cycle of and the global environment. each product. ❻ Develop positive relationships with the community ❸ Give priority to the procurement of materials and through contributions to the local environment and products that have the least levels of adverse impact the proper disclosure of environmental data. on the environment. Approaches to the reduction of Considerations for water and air greenhouse gas emissions environments Of all of the corporate environment conservation In manufacturing semiconductors, water is an essential activities, ROHM gives the highest priority to reducing and precious resource. ROHM shows careful consideration greenhouse gas emission. to the impact on water and air environments generated by In 2010, ROHM changed over the electric power used its production activities. at the Philippine production site from private power The production site in the Philippines has introduced a generation using heavy oil to purchased electricity. By closed treatment system that discharges zero wastewater this, ROHM was able to reduce CO ² emissions arising in order to protect the nearby lake environment, where from energy by 14% from a year earlier. multifarious ecosystems exist. In addition, the whole industry is working together to ROHM continues to promote its business activities with reduce PFC gases (PFCs, SF6, etc.), which are said to biodiversity taken into account in 2011, too. exert a greenhouse effect more than 6,500 times that of CO². In 2010, ROHM achieved a reduction of PFC gases Actions taken for environmental load of more than 60% from 1995 levels, which far exceeded substances the industry goal of a reduction of 10%. ROHM also started a tree planting activity in Victoria, ROHM voluntarily stipulates 77 banned substances in Southern Australia in 2001, called “ROHM Forest.” In accordance with domestic and overseas environment2010, the total forested area amounted to 923 ha. The related laws including the RoHS Directive. For these amount of carbon dioxide (CO ² ) sequestrated by this banned substances, ROHM established green procurement forest corresponds to approximately 45% of the CO ² standards and urges all its business partners to submit a emitted because of energy generation at ROHM’s certificate of non-use of these banned substances. domestic manufacturing centers in 2010. In addition, in order to comply with the EU’s REACH regulation, ROHM started a survey of materials that load the environment, using investigative tools recommended by the Joint Article Management Promotion consortium (JAMP) to reinforce environmental management. With respect to PFOS (perfluorooctanesulfonate acid), regulations have gone into effect throughout the world and the use of PFOS has been banned in all applications Victoria except for certain uses. ROHM used PFOS containing material in semiconductor manufacture, but the company searched for alternative substances and ways to improve processes, ultimately abolishing all use of PFOS containing materials in 2010. Eucalyptus were planted in Victoria, Australia. [Environmental Data Book] posted on ROHM’s website It is ROHM’s sincere hope that this report be easily understood by stakeholders of all ranks. Consequently, detailed information on the environment was posted on the company website via its own pages and disclosed on the website. [URL]▶http://www.rohm.com/csr/index.html ROHM CSR Report 2011 24 Product lineups of ROHM Group General Information ICs on ROHM Group ・EEPROMs ・Operational Amplifiers Company name: ROHM Co., Ltd. / Comparators Head office location: 21 Saiin Mizosaki-cho, Ukyo-ku, Kyoto 615-8585 Japan ・Voltage Detector ICs (Reset ICs) TEL: +81(75)311-2121 Fax: +81(75)315-0172 ・Clock Generators Founded on: September 17, 1958 ・Analog Switches / Logic ICs Capital: 86,969 million JPY (as of March 31, 2011) ・D/A Converters Representative: Satoshi Sawamura, President ・Sensor ICs Number of employees: Consolidated 21,560 (as of March 31, 2011) ・Linear Regulators Sales volume: Consolidated 341,885 million JPY (fiscal year ending March 2011) ・Switching Regulators ・Power Management ICs ・Automotive Regulators JAPAN Places of business: 12 sites Places of production: 12 sites Places of development: 3 sites (Design center) QA centers: 2 sites ASIA Places of business: 36 sites Places of production: 10 sites Places of development: 5 sites (Design center) QA centers: 6 sites Data on the map is effective as of March 31, 2011. Sales volume (million yen) Operating profits (million yen) Number of employees (persons) 395,081 69,497 67,361 373,405 22,034 335,640 341,885 20,422 20,539 21,005 21,560 317,140 32,736 18,809 10,540 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) (year) (year) (as of March 31, 2011) 25 ROHM CSR Report 2011 Discrete Semiconductors Passive Components ・Motor Drivers ・Transistors ・Resistors ・LED / LCD Drivers ・Diodes ・Tantalum Capacitors ・IT Equipment / Interface ICs ・SiC Power Devices ・Video and Imaging ICs Modules (Sub Systems) ・Audio ICs Opto Electronics ・Power Modules ・Low Power Microcontroller ・LEDs ・Contact Image Sensor Heads ・Speech Synthesis LSI ・LED Lighting Modules ・Printheads ・P2ROM ・LED Displays ・FeRAM ・Laser Diodes Semiconductor-applied Products ・Display Drivers ・Optical Sensors ・Biochips / Biosensors ・Battery Monitoring IC ・IrDA Infrared Communication Modules ・Acceleration Sensors ・Remote C Control Receiver Modules ・Gyroscopes EUROPE Places of business: 10 sites Place of production: 1 site Place of development: 1 site (Design center) QA center: 1 site AMERICAS Places of business: 10 sites Place of production: 1 site Places of development: 2 sites (Design center) QA center: 1 site Sales volume by business Sales volume by region Employees by Geographical (million yen) (million yen) Region (persons) Integrated Europe 12,278 Europe 193 Circuits Others 176,672 Americas Americas 51,669 16,056 Japan 333 Japan 122,632 5,833 Total Total Total 341,885 Asia 341,885 Asia 21,560 190,917 15,201 Discrete Semiconductor Devices 113,543 (as of March 31, 2011) ROHM CSR Report 2011 26 www.rohm.com 54C6492E 08.2011 ROHM Ⓒ 3000・CR
