A n n u a l a n d s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t F FICIAL O REP ORT FICIAL OF REP content ORT 1 To our Shareholders 7 4 PUMA.Peace 73 CEO Letter 8 ‘peace starts with me’ Films 75 Our Principles 10 One Young World 76 The PUMA Share 11 PUMA/adidas Peace Day Games 76 2 PUMAVision 13 5 PUMA.Creative 77 PUMAVision 15 PUMA.Creative Documentary Film Program 79 Stakeholder Engagement 17 PUMA.Creative Awards 80 Awards 21 Creative Art Network 83 People@PUMA 22 Marmo Saves Our Seas 85 3 PUMA.Safe 35 HOME OCEANS 85 PUMA’s Environmental Profit and Loss Account 37 Volunteerism 85 Environmental Targets 2015 39 Independent Assurance Report 86 Sustainable Products 41 6 Brand 89 Sustainable Supply Chain Management 43 Brand Strategy 90 Environmental Management 58 Teamsport 91 2011 Target Assessment 72 Running 94 Motorsport 96 FICIAL OF REP content ORT Golf 98 Risk Management 138 Sailing 100 Disclosures Pursuant to Section 315(4)of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 142 Fitness 102 Outlook 143 Lifestyle 104 8 Consolidated Financial Statements 145 7 Management Report 107 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 147 2011 Overview 108 Consolidated Income Statement 148 General Economic Situation 109 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 149 Strategy 110 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 150 Business Development 112 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 151 Value Management 125 Changes in Fixed Assets 152 Product Development and Design 127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 153 Independent Statutory Auditor‘s Report 188 Procurement 128 Employees 130 9 B oard of Management & Supervisory Board of PUMA AG Corporate Governance Report / Statement on Corporate Governance and Managing Directors & Administrative Board of PUMA SE / Pursuant to Section of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 132 Report of the Administrative Board 191 Compensation Report on the Board of Management and the 10 GRI Index 201 Supervisory Board (until July 24, 2011) and for the Managing Directors and the Administrative Board (from July 25, 2011) 136 11 Further Information 221 FICIAL OF REP To our Shareholders ORT CHAPTER: CEO Letter 8 Our Principles 10 1 The PUMA Share 11 P : 8 | C : 1 To our Shareholders FOREWORD Letter from your CEO, Franz Koch Dear Shareholders and Friends of PUMA, We also signed a new sponsorship contract with the current German champions, Borussia What a year 2011 has been! It was exceptional in many ways for me personally in my new Dortmund. The South African Football Federation also signed a long-term deal with PUMA. position as PUMA’s CEO as well as for PUMA as a company and brand. With a portfolio of 12 African teams, we remain the leading football sponsor on the African Our annual results have proven that PUMA is indeed ‘Back on the Attack.’ We managed to continent. All these strategic moves underline our ambition to be the clear number 3 brand crack 3 billion euros in sales, reaching the ambitious 2011 target we set for ourselves. In in the world of football. terms of earnings we have posted bottom-line results that exceeded expectations. This underlines the facts that PUMA continues to be profitable on a scale which compares favoSHINING IN SPORT PERFORMANCE AND LIFESTYLE rably to the rest of the industry and that the PUMA brand remains both strong and desirable. But it was not just football where PUMA made headlines in the last year. At the Track & Much of PUMA’s success in 2011 can be attributed to the long-term strategic growth plan Field World Championships in Daegu, the World’s fastest man, Usain Bolt, once again stole launched in autumn 2010 with implementation starting last year. I am pleased to see that the show, leading Jamaica to gold in the 4 x 100m relay and smashing the world record our roadmap, aimed to unlock our long-term brand potential of 4 billion euros in sales by in the process. In our Sailing category, PUMA Ocean Racing – with our racing yacht Mar 2015, is already yielding fruit. Mostro is currently competing in the Volvo Ocean Race, aiming to go one better than their One aspect of this strategy is the increasing differentiation between PUMA’s Performance second place last time around. Our credibility as a sailing brand has also paved the way for and Lifestyle categories. While we will stay true to our Sportlifestyle positioning as a brand, partnerships with the America’s Cup Event Authority as well as the ORACLE Racing team. we want to strengthen each of our segments through more distinct approaches in terms On top of this, we boosted our motorsport Formula 1 portfolio by extending our partnership of products, marketing and distribution. Our PERFORMANCE proposition features thrilling with Ferrari and signing a new contract with Mercedes GP Petronas. In our Golf category, athletes, electrifying teams and exciting technical innovations while our vision of LIFEwe excelled with our golfing superstars Lexi Thompson and Rickie Fowler. 16-year-old STYLE is driven by cultural relevance, urban style leadership and cutting-edge design Lexi made history in September when she won the Navistar LPGA Classic, making her the innovation. We are the brand that joyfully mixes the influences from sport and lifestyle with youngest player ever to win on the LPGA or PGA Tour. Hot on the heels of Lexi’s historic win, the desire to contribute to a better world. Rickie Fowler claimed his first professional title, taking home the Kolon Korea Open. At the Last year we made big strides towards strengthening our roots in performance, particubeginning of this year, world-class golfer lan Poulter signed with COBRA PUMA GOLF to larly in football, by significantly expanding our sports marketing portfolio of brand ambassport our brand new styles of footwear and belts on the course. sadors. We signed four of the hottest assets that international football has to offer: Sergio Although we have been very busy in Sports Marketing, we have by no means been idle ‘Kun’ Agüero and Yaya Touré of Manchester City, Radamel Falcao of Atlético Madrid and in Lifestyle. Throughout 2011, we continued with our successful PUMA Social campaign Cesc Fàbregas, the midfield maestro of FC Barcelona and the Spanish national team. They with collections that perfectly symbolize how we fuse Sport with Lifestyle in everyday life. will all feature as central figures in our global marketing programs in the coming years. PUMA Social is aimed at the ‘After Hours Athlete’ who thrives in nightlife and prefers playclever little report 2011 P : 9 | C : 1 To our Shareholders Foto: David Königsmann Franz Koch Chief Executive Officer of PUMA SE ing darts, pool and table football with friends at the pub rather than sweating in the gym. highly motivated and inspiring people at PUMA. It is you – our PUMA employees who are Our After Hours Athlete enjoys the thrill of competition in a fun and social environment and the biggest assets of our company and I would like to thank every single one of you for your the campaign allows us to communicate our brand positioning of ‘JOY’ and what the PUMA commitment and dedication to our PUMA brand. Please keep up the brilliant work, which brand is about on every consumer touchpoint in the on and offline space. we will definitely need in 2012 – because we have a lot on the agenda. With the African Cup of Nations, Euro 2012, the conclusion of the Volvo Ocean Race and PIONEER IN SUSTAINABILITY the Olympics in London, this year is packed with major sports events that are all excelAll these strategic marketing and product initiatives are aimed at increasing PUMA’s brand lent platforms for showcasing and further increasing the global desirability of the PUMA desirability so that we continue on our path to becoming the most desirable and sustainable brand. Sportlifestyle company in the world. And I am pleased to see that we made big strides last Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to again thank not only all our employees at year towards achieving this goal – especially in the realm of sustainability where PUMA PUMA but also our shareholders and stakeholders for their continued support. I am excepcontinued to be a pioneer. We established the first-ever Environmental Profit and Loss tionally grateful for the trust they placed in me upon my appointment as CEO of PUMA and Account, which puts a monetary value on the impacts the sourcing, production, marketing for their faith that I would be able to handle this job. This meant the world to me and made and distribution of PUMA products have on the environment. It is the second year running it much easier to enjoy a good start leading PUMA into the future. we have combined the Annual Report and Sustainability Report as our sustainability initiatives are integral parts of our corporate strategy. Another key area of this strategy is the transformation of our business model, also initiated in 2011 with the primary objective to create a robust platform for growth well beyond our current 5-year horizon. Our transformation program will lead to more integrated procesYours ses and systems, reduced time to market and increased operational efficiency. THANKS TO OUR EMPLOYEES Franz Koch Looking back, I can say I am truly proud and grateful that everyone at PUMA worked so hard in order for PUMA to be able to exceed the 3 billion euro mark for the first time. Ever since I took the helm in July last year, when PUMA transformed from a German stock corporation into a European company, PUMA SE, and Jochen Zeitz moved on to become PUMA’s Executive Chairman and a board member at PPR, I have met and continue to meet clever little report 2011 P : 10 | C : 1 To our Shareholders Our Principles PUMAVision provides our company, our listening as much as we talk, and giving ative means finding a way around a problem, employees and all of our stakeholders with back as much as we take. rather than stopping when the walls are too the 4Keys – Fair, Honest, Positive, and Crehigh. It means looking at new ways, listenative. These 4Keys act as a compass that HONEST ing to new ideas and trying new strategies. always keeps us true to our vision of a better Honest means sincere. It means not faking It means striving for the most innovative world – guiding all of our decisions, actions, it, walking the walk as much as we talk the solution because just being good enough is processes and practices. We use the 4Keys talk. It means putting our money, our time never good enough. Being creative means as a tool, which means always doing our best and our energy where our mouth is. Being having dreams, and then making those to be Fair, Honest, Positive and Creative in honest means admitting our mistakes and dreams real things, in our individual worlds, everything we do. We measure our thinking, owning up to our responsibilities – somein our company’s world, in the real world. our decisions, our actions and our processthing that applies to companies as much as Each day every action we take and every PUMAVision tm es against these principles by asking ourit does to individuals. decision we make has a ripple effect, influselves if what we are doing is Fair, Honest, encing those around us and affecting situPositive and Creative. Making PUMA work POSITIVE ations. PUMA uses the 4Keys to guide ourfor us and for the world in which we operate Positive means constructive. It means selves towards fairer outcomes, honest – across our workplaces in so many counbuilding things and people up, not breakinteraction, positive results and more creFair tries – means using the 4Keys every day and ing them down. It means suggesting rather ative solutions. in all that we do. than criticizing, and working for solutions FAIR rather than just complaining. It means supporting others when they try, encouraging Honest Fair means balanced. It means we see both sides and resist the pressures that can push them when they fail, and celebrating with them when they succeed. It means ‘we can’ Positive us into extreme ways of thinking, working or living. It also means we are open to all more often than ‘we can’t.’ Creative and refuse to discriminate against people CREATIVE or make judgments based on gender, race, Creative means imaginative. It means thinkreligion, political persuasion, sexual prefering outside the box, or thinking outside the ence, or way of life. And being fair means shoebox, as the case may be. Being creclever little report 2011 P : 11 | C : 1 To our Shareholders The PUMA Share Events around the globe conspired to place y continuous pressure on stock markets f.1 PUMA share performance / trading volume worldwide in 2011. The Japanese earthquakes, tsunami and subsequent nuclear catastrophe, the state of the US economy 300 and, in particular, the European sovereign debt crisis had a negative effect on both economic development and various stock 250 markets. Whereas the Dow Jones finished the year up six percent, the German stock market finished 2011 in the red. The two most important German indices, 200 the DAX and MDAX, retreated significantly in 2011, although the MDAX, which lists the most important German midcaps, fared 150 slightly better than the DAX. The DAX finished 2011 at 5,898 points, 14.7% lower than the year before, whereas the MDAX gave up 100 12.2% to finish at 8,898 points. Despite declining in 2011, the MDAX listed PUMA share price performed better than either the DAX or MDAX. PUMA’s share 50 price moved in a band between € 197.30 (April 18, 2011) and € 252.85 (September 20, 2011). The average daily volume of shares 0 traded was 44,504 compared to 32,045 the Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec previous year. PUMA’s share price finished the year at € 225.00 compared to € 248.00 PUMA Trading Volume the previous year, 9.3% lower than at the end of 2010. clever little report 2011 P : 12 | C : 1 To our Shareholders Market capitalization of the PUMA share t.1 Key data per share 2011 2010 2009* 2008 2007 Veränderung decreased by 9.6% and reached € 3.4 billion at year-end, compared to € 3.7 billion in the End of year price 225.00 248.00 231.84 140.30 273.00 -9.3% € previous year. Highest price listed € 252.85 263.75 240.74 273.26 350.10 -4.1% The PUMA share has been registered for Lowest price listed € 197.30 201.50 103.04 112.78 260.15 -2.1% the regulated market (formerly official tradDaily trading volume (Ø) amount 44,504 32,045 38,996 57,310 141,082 38.9% ing) on German stock exchanges since 1986. Earnings per share € 15.36 13.45 5.28 15.15 16.80 14.2% It is listed in the Prime Standard Segment Gross cashflow per share € 25.47 23.84 18.47 25.46 26.23 6.8% and the Mid-Cap Index MDAX of the German Free cashflow (before acquisitions) per share 4.07 8.35 16.52 7.21 13.63 -51.3% € Stock Exchange [Deutsche Börse]. MoreShareholder‘s equity per share € 107.14 92.24 75.14 78.05 72.62 16.2% over, membership in the Dow Jones World Dividend per share € 2.00 1.80 1.80 2.75 2.75 11.1% / STOXX Sustainability indices and the FTSE4Good index was once again confirmed. * Adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8, see chapter 3 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010. f.2 share development – rebased 120 100 80 60 PUMA MDAX 40 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Okt Nov Dec clever little report 2011 PUMAVision FICIAL OF REP pumavision ORT chapter: PUMAVision 15 Stakeholder Engagement 17 2 Awards 21 People@PUMA 22 P : 15 | C : 2 PUMAVision PUMAVision tm PUMAVision We at PUMA have a vision. tal supplier auditing program into the social PUMA.Safe Humanity PUMAVision. A vision of a better world. A and environmental responsibility arm of PUMA.Safe Humanity focuses on the moniworld that is safer, more peaceful and PUMA. PUMA.Safe has employed a stratoring, remediation and build-up of supplier more creative than the world we know totegic approach to address issues of noncapacity to comply with and go beyond the day. PUMA as a leading company within the compliance with PUMA’s Code of Conduct PUMA Code of Conduct in the areas of labor, Fair Sportlifestyle industry has the opportunity found among suppliers, implementing tophuman rights, health & safety and comand the responsibility to contribute to a betdown as well as bottom-up social and envimunity development. It also engages with Honest ter world for the generations to come. Through our programs PUMA.Safe (focusronmental capacity building projects at key points in our supply chain. all relevant partners and stakeholders to ensure socially responsible production of Positive ing on environmental and social issues), PUMA.Peace (supporting global peace) and To serve PUMA’s increasing sustainability requirements, PUMA.Safe in 2011 adjusted PUMA products. PUMA.Safe Humanity also contributes to the enhancement of social Creative PUMA.Creative (supporting artists and creative organizations), we are making our its internal structure following the requirements of PPR HOME, the sustainability and economic development of communities of interest within PUMA’s spheres of operacontribution to build – for ourselves and our initiative of PUMA’s majority shareholder tion and influence. stakeholders – a more sustainable future. PPR, on Leadership, Humanity, Ecology Sustainability has become an integral part and Creativity. The PUMA.Safe department PUMA.Safe Ecology of PUMA’s business strategy and is essenwas divided into two strategic arms focusPUMA.Safe Ecology focuses on all envitial to the PUMA DNA. ing on Humanity and Ecology issues within ronmental areas of PUMA’s sustainability ”What lies behind us the supply chain and PUMA’s operations. approach; the proper implementation of the and what lies before us PUMA.Safe With this division of the team we will have Restricted Substances List (RSL) among all are trifles compared PUMA.Safe, as part of PUMAVision, reports a higher leverage of our key sustainability our suppliers; the collection and interpredirectly to PUMA SE board member Reiner activities in the supply chain and beyond. tation of Environmental Key Performance to what lies within us“ Seiz as well as to the Chief Sustainability As of the end of 2011 PUMA.Safe has 18 Indicators (E-KPIs); on capacity building (Ralph Waldo Emerson) Officer of PPR and Chairman of the PUMA employees who globally ensure the proper programs to improve energy and water Administrative Board, Jochen Zeitz. Since implementation of PUMA’s sustainability efficiency as well as waste management. the establishment of PUMA.Safe in 1999, it approach within PUMA’s operations and in PUMA.Safe Ecology is the main driver for has evolved from a social and environmenthe supply chain. the establishment of the Global Reporting clever little report 2011 P : 16 | C : 2 PUMAVision Initiative (GRI) sustainability reports on supPUMA.Creative plier level and is responsible for the E-KPI PUMA.Creative is an initiative fostering data collection and interpretation within our cross-cultural exchange and collaboracompany. PUMA.Safe Ecology also works tion through a variety of platforms. PUMA. in cooperation with other PUMA departCreative also drives and manages artist colments to develop more sustainable product laborations within our product divisions at materials and cooperates with the sustainPUMA. During 2011, PUMA.Creative providability managers in footwear, apparel and ed support, counsel and industry recogniaccessories to bring all of our suppliers to tion to filmmakers through the PUMA.Creaa greater level of sustainability. tive Film Program. PUMA.Creative supports documentary films that function as powerPUMA.Peace ful educational and behavioral change tools PUMA.Peace is an initiative that uses an both internally and for our consumers. The array of programs to foster a more peaceful Creative Africa Network (CAN) and Creaworld than the one we know today. Activities tive Caribbean Network (CCN) both are priin 2011 included our seven inaugural ‘peace mary sites for cultural information in their starts with me’ films, an annual commission regions, and the Creative South America of films based on peace that are gifted to the Network (CSAN) is now live. PUMA.Creaworld; the sponsorship of 13 delegates to tive’s activities also included the facilitation attend One Young World, the premier global of Creative Africa Network artists in designforum on youth leadership; and the support ing ten African National Football Kits for our of goodwill and conflict resolution football PUMA Teamsport department, the launch matches globally. PUMA.Peace also made and a major exhibition of these kits at the sports equipment donations, public service Design Museum, London; sponsorship of announcements, education programming an important conference on the Caribbean on the role of sport in peace, high-profile in Curacao; multiple lectures and panel international PR announcements about discussions at cutting-edge institutions peace as well as marketing campaigns to globally; professionalization programs for raise peace awareness. PUMA.Peace once design students; development of an enviagain participated in World Peace Day on ronmental book and a campaign aimed at September 21 through our third Annual children with an accompanying product PUMA/adidas Peace Day Games around the range for our PUMA Kids department; and world. PUMA.Peace contributes to positive a short, educational film screened internabrand association among our consumers tionally during the Volvo Ocean Race. PUMA. and an authentic brand positioning of joy Creative strategically contributes to brand and peace. desirability through its cutting-edge initiatives and creative solutions. clever little report 2011 P : 17 | C : 2 PUMAVision STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Engaging with our stakeholders is an essential part of our daily business to become not limited to our production Workers Fainting in Cambodian Supplier Factory more sustainable. Only through active and facilities. Though dubbed frequent dialogue with our stakeholders In April 2011, 225 workers that inexplithese collapsing incidences ‘mass fainting’ incidences, and carefully evaluating their feedback will cably collapsed at our footwear supplier very seriously and implemost occurrences were we be able to adjust our approach for sucHuey Chuen in Cambodia were taken to mented an improvement actually sympathetic colcess. In 2011 PUMA was engaged within hospital over a span of 2 days. The inciplan with short, medium and lapses as most workers the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, the Fair dent, which was not the first in Cambodia long-term actions based on never lost consciousness in Labor Association, Better Work as well as over the course of several weeks, promptthis risk assessment. all incidences that occurred PPR Home. ed PUMA to launch an intensive investigaIn line with this plan, excesover the course of several tion through the FLA into the exact causes sive working hours do not months in Cambodia. Huey Sustainable Apparel Coalition as local investigations as well as PUMA’s occur any longer at Huey Chen is the only footwear PUMA became an active member of the Susown investigations could not come to a Chuen, additional ventilafactory affected, while othtainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) in 2011, an common and exact set of causes. In July tion was installed ensuring ers occurred in garments industry-wide group of leading apparel and 2011, a second incident of mass collapse good air quality, additional lightning was facilities. Though there had been sugfootwear brands, retailers, manufacturers, occurred despite some initial correcimplemented and due to the generally gestions that chemical exposure might non-governmental organizations, academic tions that had been made such as the poor health conditions of some workers, be the cause, further investigations in experts and the U.S. Environmental Proteccurtailment of overtime in the facility. PUMA instructed the factory to conduct occurrences in other factories point to tion Agency. The aim of the coalition is to As a consequence of the second occurmedical check-ups of all workers despite mass psychogenic illness. work together to reduce the environmenrence, the Executive Chairman of PUMA, this being not a legal requirement. The None of the studies conducted by the tal and social impacts of apparel and footJochen Zeitz, met with representatives of factory also built a canteen that serves Inter-Ministerial Committee established wear products around the world. PUMA is the FLA to discuss further measures to as a rest area during break time for the by the government of Cambodia have actively engaged in various environmental ensure that the facilities at Huey Chuen employees. The factory now also provides found a unifying, common cause for all and social working groups within the coawould fully meet PUMA’s Social and Labor breakfast and other meals for the factory incidents except this. We have participatlition. Active membership in the SAC gives Standards as well as address the findings workers at Huey Chuen at PUMA’s costs ed in discussions with our industry peers us the opportunity to work in collaboration of the independent investigation. to improve the workers’ nourishment. to tackle the issues on an industry-wide with our industry peers on common goals, The results of the independent investilevel. We also continue to work with the whether these goals are related to environgation did not conclusively prove speWe acknowledge that the workers’ factory and local authorities to take evementally friendly products and production cific causes for the earlier incident, but situation in Cambodian factories – in ry precaution that compliance with our processes or to improving working standhighlighted probable causes through a the footwear as well as in the garment social and labor standards is ensured ards within the supply chain. comprehensive risk assessment. We took industry is problematic in general and and workers’ safety is paramount. clever little report 2011 P : 18 | C : 2 PUMAVision Fair Labor Association that build cooperation among governments, PUMA has been an active member of the employers’ and workers’ organizations and Fair Labor Association (FLA) since 2004. international buyers. Donor support also PPR HOME centers on 4 interconnected programs Through collaborative actions, the FLA is plays a large role in the implementation of trying to improve social and working conglobal and country-level activities. ditions in factories within the global supply Better Work supports enterprises in implechain. External and independent monitoring of factories through the FLA followed menting the ILO core international labor standards and national labor law. At a 1. Leadership > Leading a corporate paradigm shift both externally and internally by public reporting of the auditing results global level, Better Work develops practical ensures transparency. The FLA requires that its member companies work togethtools to help enterprises improve their compliance with labor standards and increase 2. Humanity > Enhancing the social, economic and environmental wellbeing of communities in PPR’s spheres of operation er with their factories when remediating their competitiveness such as compliance issues that were found during FLA audits. Through its third party complaint mechainformation management system, advisory services for suppliers and training resourc3. Ecology > Mitigating PPR’s footprint via reduction, offsets and investing in the environment nism the FLA responds to workplace labor es. Country programs typically combine violations. independent enterprise compliance assess4. Creativity > Creating sustainable solutions to support global sustainability. In 2011, after numerous workers had faintments with enterprise advisory and training ed in a PUMA supplier factory in Camboservices to support practical improvements dia, PUMA initiated a third party complaint through workplace cooperation. with the FLA. A workplace specialist was In 2011 PUMA worked with Better Work engaged to intensively investigate the situVietnam, Better Work Indonesia and Betation and circumstances that had led to the ter Factories Cambodia. As a condition of mass fainting at the factory. The results of enhanced partnership for 2012, PUMA will only focus on working towards reducing PPR HOME moves beyond the conventional this investigation were published on the FLA phase out its own auditing activities in Betand mitigating its social and environmental CSR approach and promotes a new busiwebsite. ter Work countries it fully participates in and impacts, but will also develop opportunities ness paradigm whereby the attainment of will focus more on remediation and capacity for the benefit of people and their environsustainability is driving creativity and innoBetter Work building activities for member factories. ments in their spheres of operation. vation, and vice versa, to build businesses Better Work is a unique partnership program PPR HOME is the new direction dedicated to that deliver financial, social and environbetween the International Labor OrganizaPPR HOME … For the long run sustainability inside PPR. Placed under the mental returns for the long run. The PPR tion (ILO) and the International Finance CorPUMA’s majority shareholder PPR launched strategic leadership of Jochen Zeitz, PPR Group is uniting its brands under PPR HOME poration (IFC). Launched in February 2007, an ambitious and multi-tiered sustainability Chief Sustainability Officer, PPR HOME will to work together towards PPR HOME ’s vision the program aims to improve both compliinitiative in March 2011: PPR HOME… for the bring expertise, support and creativity to all of a better world that is more sustainable ance with labor standards and competitivelong run . PPR brands. An annual €10 million budget, economically, socially and ecologically ness in global supply chains. Better Work By forming PPR HOME , the PPR Group has in addition to the PPR brands own initiathan the world we know and live in today. involves the development of both global committed to lessen its environmental tives, will be dedicated to PPR HOME . It will It is an opportunity to reconsider products tools and country-level projects, with a impact, taking proactive steps to implement be indexed to the evolution of the dividend and services and a means to challenge the focus on scalable and sustainable solutions best business practices. PPR HOME will not paid by PPR. present way of doing things; motivating ourclever little report 2011 P : 19 | C : 2 PUMAVision selves and our customers to be aware of the discussion ‘round-table’ format to an innous to include relevant topics in our future planet’s fragility thereby setting the pace vative and forward-thinking debate in which Feedback from our stakework which we had so far not prioritized for a new, more sustainable consumerism, representatives from NGOs, industry, sup(e.g. social projects at supplier communiholders on key helping good business become synonymous pliers, creative fields, universities, private ties) but also confirms our previous opinwith good conservation, redefining sustainorganizations and PUMA addressing key topics by category: ion on the lower ranked materiality of other able shareholder value, and building busisustainability issues PUMA is facing. The topics (for example consumer data protecnesses that meet the needs of an evolving intense dialog with our stakeholders has > Sustainability Strategy tion or bribery and corruption indicators). society. always provided us with valuable and conWe aim to build on the work carried out by structive feedback on our sustainability (Governance Category) Stakeholder Reporting in 2012 and conduct Talks at Banz strategy. > Energy and Water (Climate further research covering a larger amount From November 21 to 23, 2011, PUMA and Environment Category) of stakeholders. arranged its annual stakeholder meeting for Materiality Analysis the ninth time, the Talks at Banz at the Banz The meetings at Banz, together with regu> Promotion of and Compliance Monastery in Bad Staffelstein, Germany. lar individual stakeholder contacts, have so with Labor Rights (Supply German Council for John Elkington, a world authority on corpofar been used to identify the most relevant Sustainable Development and rate responsibility and sustainable developissues or potential gaps in the context of Chain Category) Two Degrees Initiative. ment gave the keynote speech on a holistic PUMA’s sustainability management. > Sustainable Products In 2011, Jochen Zeitz was nominated a coapproach to understand sustainability in a Based on the guidelines of the Global Reportopted member of the German Council for broader light. ing Initiative as well as recommendations by (Consumer and Products Sustainable Development which advises In 2011 more than 60 participants from our stakeholders, we decided to conduct a Category) the German government on sustainability industry, non-governmental organizations, dedicated ‘Materiality Analysis’ in 2011 to issues where he represents the interests academia and unions attended the event. find out whether such a formalized process > Diversity and Equal of businesses. Last year, he presented the Unlike previous years, the 2011 Talks of stakeholder engagement would lead to Opportunities (Employees results and benefits of the PUMA Environfocused on the PUMA Environmental Profit the same conclusions or different results. mental Profit and Loss Account (E P&L ) to & Loss Account which had been released In order to do so, we commissioned StakeCategory) as well as 15 council members and a representative shortly before the meeting, necessary key holder Reporting, an experienced expert > Stakeholder Involvement of the Federal Government. As a result, the performance indicators for a social profit organization, to conduct a stakeholder council will launch a project that aims at and loss account such as better wages in mapping exercise and then to send a ques(Society Category) implementing standards for PUMA’s envithe supply chain as well as PUMA’s future tionnaire to our most relevant internal and ronmental accounting statement and will sustainability initiatives. PUMA’s Sustainexternal stakeholders and ask them to rank promote the E P&L approach as an innovative ability Scorecard was reviewed and it was PUMA’s sustainability topics in the categopractice in public debate. this meeting that generated the seeds for a ries supply chain, consumer and products, Zeitz is also a member of the Two Degrees Sustainability Scorecard 2.0 (enhance social governance, employees, climate and enviinitiative – German CEOs for Climate Proissues KPIs, including communities and ronment as well as society. The replies to Either way, we interpret the feedback as tection. The principle of the commitment to employees). the questionnaires were then followed up originating from our first attempt at a forthe initiative is to limit global warming to 2 Since the first Talks at Banz took place in with in-depth telephone interviews with mal materiality analysis. This leaves us with degrees Celsius maximum compared to a 2003, the meeting has evolved from a small selected stakeholder representatives. room to rethink our strategy and will help pre-industrial level. clever little report 2011 P : 20 | C : 2 PUMAVision Standing Memberships PUMA.Safe Sustainable PUMA became a member of the United impact of harmful substances in the apparel Design Lecture Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative and footwear supply chain.” Building on PUMA’s commitment to susin October 2006, and since then we have PUMA joined the Climate Neutral Network tainability and reasserting our position as adopted and supported the ten univerfrom the United Nations Environment Proa leading design company in Sportlifestyle, sal social and environmental principles as gramme (UNEP) in 2009. the Annual PUMA.Safe Sustainable Design Lecpart of our activities. PUMA joined the GerWe are an active member in the World ture is a platform for design to be discussed Alejandro Aravena man Round Table on Codes of Conduct in 2003. Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry in the context of social and environmenpresents the Second Annual PUMA.Safe Through a discussion group between the GIZ (WFSGI) as well as the European Sporting tal sustainability. Inaugurated in 2010 by Sustainable Design Lecture at the Design Museum, London. (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Goods Federation (FESI), where Dr. HengstPUMAVision at the Design Museum, LonZusammenarbeit ), the BMZ (Federal Minmann, Director PUMA.Safe, chairs the Envidon, the first lecture featured Yves Béhar, istry for Economic Cooperation and Develronmental Committee. the designer of the hugely successful Clever opment), NGOs, unions and companies, the We consider as thematic basis of our social Little Bag. members look to improve the implementaand environmental guidelines the UN UniverAlejandro Aravena presented the Second tion of social standards in developing counsal Declaration of Human Rights , the Tripartite Annual PUMA.Safe Sustainable Design tries. Declaration of Principles concerning MultinaLecture at the Design Museum, London. In 2005 we became an active member of the tional Enterprises and Social Policy from the Aravena is the executive director of SanApparel and Footwear International Restricted International Labor Organization (ILO), and tiago-based architecture firm Elemental. Substances Management Group (AFIRM Group), the Guidelines for International MultinaAravena led a sold-out audience through which consists of international footwear and tional Enterprises from the Organization for important innovations in architectural apparel brands. The Mission Statement of Economic Cooperation and Development planning and building that encourages the AFIRM Group is “to reduce the use and (OECD). collaboration, less energy usage, positive social environments promoting peaceful coexistence and innovative solutions to using resources sustainably. PUMA wishes to contribute to the highest levels of research and debate in sustainable design and in 2014, after covering the main disciplines of design, a publication will be produced documenting, in depth, each lecture, thus enlarging the legacy of this project. The reach of this series is further ensured by the production of podcasts and videos of both Béhar’s and Aravena’s lectures made available to the public online free of charge. clever little report 2011 P : 21 | C : 2 PUMAVision 1 AWARDS Clever Little Bag PUMAVISION and PUMA received nine awards in 2011 recognizing Our innovative packaging system saves more than 60% of paper and water. the company’s achievement in sustainability. These include: PUMA remains a listed member of both the Dow Jones > Yellow Pencil Winner (Clever Little Bag), Packaging Design, Professional Awards 2011, D&AD Sustainability Index (since 2006) and the FTSE4Good (since 2005), two of the most important sustainability indices > Black Pencil Winner (PUMA Phone Packaging), Packaging Design, Professional Awards 2011, D&AD worldwide. PPR Innovation and Sustainable > Winner (Clever Little Bag), Innovation of the Year, Development Awards 2011 Luxury Briefing Awards PPR Group’s 60,000 employees by March 15, 2011 had to submit an innovative team project focused on sustainable Silver Winner (PUMA), Best Green development to a jury of experts. > International Business Award (Large), This second edition of the PPR Innovation and Sustainability 6th International Green Awards Awards proved to be an outstanding success, with 48 projects initiated by 140 staff members from Argentina, Brazil, > Bronze Winner (Clever Little Bag), Best Green New Product Innovation, 6th International Green Awards Germany, Hong Kong, USA, Sweden and France among othThe winning projects of the 2nd edition of the Innovation & Sustainable Development ers. While the jury expressed its high appreciation for all Awards were revealed on the occasion of > Winner (Clever Little Bag), Best of Show, projects submitted, they recognized four projects as particthe PPR annual Shareholders General Meeting held last May 19. Chairman & CEO The Dieline Awards 2011 ularly attractive due to their innovative nature, their cability François-Henri Pinault handed out the prizes in to respond to sustainability issues and their close relationperson to the winning teams. > Winner (Clever Little Bag), Sustainability, Conde Nast Traveller 2011 Innovation and Design Awards ship with the corporate business activities. The first prize was awarded to a PUMA team based at our headquarters in Germany. On the occasion of the Volvo > Winner (Clever Little Bag), Packaging, Core77 Design Award 2011 Ocean Race 2011-2012 which PUMA is taking part in with an own sailing yacht, this project plans for extensive collectcollection of products made from these recycled plastics. ing of plastic waste along the Indian coastlines and for its The PUMA team came on stage to pick up its award under > Winner (Clever Little Bag), Graphics/Identity/ Packaging GOOD DESIGN Award 2011 reclamation via the creation of a plastic recycling business roaring applause from the shareholders. The implemenin India. Concurrently, to support the growth of the recytation of this project will be supported by a financial grant cling business, PUMA also plans to introduce a special of € 25,000 from PPR. clever little report 2011 P : 22 | C : 2 PUMAVision people@puma F.1 Category Scores vs. Benchmark PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) vs. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) Ranked by Difference from Benchmark Favorable Scores 2011 Differences from Benchmark 2009 Training and Development 59 8 We see the role of our Human Resources characterize the organization (see figure 1). Top Management 61 7 (HR) function in attracting the best and The second survey (Employee Opinion SurPay and Benefits 50 7 most talented employees as well as develvey) was conducted in October 2011 for oping and retaining our current employees. PUMA. Compared to the first survey in 2009, Social and Environmental Responsibility 84 6 Therefore we focus our activities on creatthere was an increase in the number of surInternal Communication 63 6 ing a working atmosphere that is characterveyed employees from 3,217 to 5,467 since ized by mutual respect and appreciation for employees from Retail were also given the Costumer Focus 74 5 each individual to encourage great perforchance to participate in the survey. The Working Relationships 72 5 mance. Since 2009 two extensive surveys results of the survey in 2011 have revealed Company Image 53 5 have been conducted based on the assesspositive dynamics in all categories comment of our employees to improve the workpared to the results in 2009, with the most Supervision 76 4 ing conditions constantly, for PUMA to be an improvements in the category ‘Training and Job Satisfaction 68 3 ‘Employer of Choice.’ Development’ (by 8 scores) followed by the categories ‘Top Management’ and ‘Pay and Organisation and Operating Efficiency 77 2 Employee Opinion Survey Benefits’ (by 7 scores each); ‘Social and 2 Employee Engagement 77 First PUMA participated in the Employee Environmental Responsibility’ and ‘Internal Satisfaction Survey ‘What’s the weather like’ Communication’ (by 6 scores each); ‘CusPerfomance Evaluation 57 1 managed by PPR group in 2009. The survey tomer Focus’, ‘Working Relationships’ and 0 25 50 75 100 -10 0 10 is led by Towers Watson and takes place eve‘Company Image’ (by 5 scores each) (see ry two years to measure the development figure 1). of companies within 13 defined areas that Figure 1: Category Scores vs. Benchmark (results from the Employee Satisfaction Survey 2009) clever little report 2011 P : 23 | C : 2 PUMAVision TRaining and development items TRaining and development supports equal opportunities for all employF.2 PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) vs. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) The overall score of each category is ees are answered positively by 61 scores. the result out of several items. General This proves that PUMA adheres to its Keys Category 7: Training and Development improvement in the ‘Training and DevelFair and Honest as regards to its employees. 9. New employees are quickly made to feel like part of my company. opment’ category is mainly indicated in nine specific questions such as ‘New Top Management Total Favorable Neutral Midpoint Total Unfavorable employees are quickly made to feel like Positive dynamic in the category ‘Top ManA. PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) B. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) part of my company’ (see figure 2) or ‘I agement’ was triggered by an increase of believe I have development opportunities eight favorable scores of the statement that A (2011) 78 10 11 in my company’ (see figure 3). The higher the company’s management is interested in B (2009) 73 * 13 * 14 * scores in 2011 compared to the survey in the wellbeing of its employees. The ques2009 are a result of the efforts in training tion reached 58 positive scores in 2009 comTotal Favorable, Difference from Benchmark: +5 and development such as the wide ¬range pared to 66 positive scores in 2011. Another 0 25 50 75 100 of trainings offered to all employees in question in this category with an increase of the newly created training catalog or a eight favorable scores referred to the man* indicates a statistically significant difference higher training budget. Accordingly the agement style within PUMA (see figure 4). responses to the question whether PUMA Figure 2: Category Training and Development F.3 TRaining and development items F.4 top management items PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) vs. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) vs. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) Category 7: Training and Development Category 2: Top Management 55. I believe I have development opportunities in my company. 27. The management style in my company encourages employees to give their best. Total Favorable Neutral Midpoint Total Unfavorable Total Favorable Neutral Midpoint Total Unfavorable A. PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) B. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) A. PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) B. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) A (2011) 63 12 24 A (2011) 69 10 20 B (2009) 57* 13 * 29 * B (2009) 62 * 11 * 27 * Total Favorable, Difference from Benchmark: +6 Total Favorable, Difference from Benchmark: +8 0 25 50 75 100 0 25 50 75 100 * indicates a statistically significant difference * indicates a statistically significant difference Figure 3: Category Training and Development Figure 4: Category Top Management clever little report 2011 P : 24 | C : 2 PUMAVision social and environmental responsibility The category ‘Social and Environmental bility strategy to become the most desirable F.6 Working Relationships items PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) vs. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) Responsibility’ received the highest favoand sustainable Sportlifestyle company and rable scores (84 scores out of 100), which the employees feel well informed about the Category 4: Working Relationships highlights that PUMA follows its sustainasustainable activities of PUMA (see figure 5). 6. Employees are treated with respect here, regardless of their job. Total Favorable Neutral Midpoint Total Unfavorable F.5 social and environmental responsibility items A. PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) B. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) vs. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) A (2011) 79 7 14 Category 13: Social and Environmental Responsibility B (2009) 70* 10 * 20 * 34. I am aware of my company‘s commitments and actions in the area of social and environmental responsibility. Total Favorable, Difference from Benchmark: +9 Total Favorable Neutral Midpoint Total Unfavorable 0 25 50 75 100 A. PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) B. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) * indicates a statistically significant difference A (2011) 86 9 5 Figure 6: Category Working Relations B (2009) 79* 13 * 8* Total Favorable, Difference from Benchmark: +8 Working Relationships confirms that the measures PUMA derived The high positive scores in the category from the 2009 Employee Satisfaction Sur0 25 50 75 100 ‘Working Relations’ regarding the statement vey are successful. Although there has been ‘Employees are treated with respect here, an increase in positive scores in the catego* indicates a statistically significant difference regardless of their job’ is a result of PUMA´s ries ‘Training and Development,’ ‘Pay and Figure 5: Category Social and Environmental Responsibility encouragement for fair-dealing working Benefits’ and ‘Performance Evaluation,’ we relations, where employees are valued for identified further potential for improvement their talent and strong contribution. The in certain items such as retention, talent scores of favorable replies increased by review and succession planning. PUMA is nine scores compared to the first survey´s determined to take action and will define result in 2009 (see figure 6). workshops to evaluate the results for each The consistently positive trend in all thirregion in order to plan initiatives to further teen categories that have been measured improve the results. clever little report 2011 P : 25 | C : 2 PUMAVision Talent Management development of personal and social skills Competency & PUMA’s talent management strategy is confor all employees as well as a specific trainPerformance Management sistent with the sustainable concept of early ing series for management only. The whole We believe that every single employee plays identification and development of talents training program is designed to support the an important role in the success of the comand supports the growth objective in the employees in finding ways to achieve longpany. To ensure that our employees meet global business plan. We attract the best term efficiency by developing key compethe required competencies for their positalents from around the globe, leveraging tencies. tions and are perfectly equipped on the each individual through effective assignThe first seminar, ‘Women in leadership’ that path to achieving our business goals, each ment and promotion planning processes to focuses on how to be successful as a female employee is involved in a performance manbuild a performance-driven organization manager started with great resonance. To agement process that consists of feedback that rewards and retains the best talents. take advantage of opportunities and potenand coaching by the managers. Additionally To recruit talents for entry-level positions we tial synergy created by cultural diversity, we our talent management and targeting tool intensified the collaboration and long-term extended the selection of intercultural topPeople@PUMA evaluates individual perforrelationship with educational institutions in ics. Besides these trainings for employees mance against business-linked objectives 2011. In cooperation with dual academies, who require intercultural competencies due and sustainability targets and plans their PUMA will extend the dual studies sport to their collaboration with international colfurther development at the same time by management by further studies consisting leagues or customers, we also provide the being directly linked to the training cataof both theory and practice, such as Internaso-called training ‘Managing Germans in log. In 2011 the internal performance systional Business and Textile Management in a German Organization as a Non-German.’ tem was further rolled out to Italy, Korea 2012. At the end of 2011, PUMA SE employed This training has been included in the proand Japan and the whole leadership team 26 apprentices, 4 dual students and 6 gram since 2011 and aims to optimize paracross EEMEA (Eastern Europe Middle East trainees. ticipants’ leadership skills with German Africa). It now covers 43% of the total popemployees. ulation in PUMA. To ensure consistency in Global Learning and Development The wide ranges of training opportuniperformance management globally, the tool Whether an introductory seminar or speties encouraged employees to profit from will be introduced to several more countries cialized coaching, all our training courses synergies and participate in cross-border such as China, Benelux and France within are developed based on internal competentrainings. the next years. cy management. Since 2011 employees and In 2012 the training selection will be further their managers have the chance to select adapted and extended to include for instance trainings from a newly designed traininnovative training sessions for creative ing catalog. Existing training offers have departments such as Design, Development been optimized and extended by new trainand Product Line Management. Managers ings to meet the employee’s requirements across divisions will be invited to discuss throughout their entire professional develleadership-orientated topics with notable opment at PUMA. speakers from sports, business, science The offered training will develop expertise and non-profit-organizations. on varying levels. The catalog includes the clever little report 2011 P : 26 | C : 2 PUMAVision International Overreaching goals are to build up leadership style. Another goal is to enable them to ules in a time period of twelve months. From Leadership Program ship capabilities to support the ‘Back on the successfully manage change projects. The this level on personal coaching sessions for A major step in the global Training and Attack’ strategy, support the regional and modules are mainly based on tools such as leaders are optional. Development of employees has been the global network of executives and integrate 360° Feedback and Peer Coaching. completely new designed concept for the PUMA’s values and the 4Keys—Fair, Honest, Target group of Level 3 is the top manageleadership program, which was introduced Positive, and Creative in everyday leadership. The second Level consists of five different ment. Both modules in this level focus on in 2011. First modules already started in the modules that take up the content from Level strategic leadership, change management EMEA region and will be rolled out globally Level 1 is for new leadership and consists of 1 and focus additionally on the importance and leading virtual teams across borders. within the next years. four different modules. The aim is to introof developing the leaders coaching skills, The duration of this third level is six months. The program is differentiated into three produce the managers over a period of nine including the field of healthy and resource grams containing different modules that months to different leadership tools and oriented management. Head and Senior cover all required leadership competencies. assist them in finding their personal leaderHead of Managers complete the five mod> program sequence > level 1 > module 1 module 2 module 3 module 4 Instruments > > 360* Feedback > PUMA Vision > PUMA Leadership > Implementing Change > Follow-up Workshop > My Values and PUMA > Toolbox > PUMA Leadership > Peer Coaching Team Heads > My Leadership Potential > Leading Teams Toolbox Duration: 9 months > My Role as a Leader > Developing People > Sustainable Leadership level 2 > module 1 module 2 module 3 module 4 module 5 > Follow-up Workshop Instruments > PUMA Vision > Handling Conflicts > Coaching as a Leader > Leading Change > 360* Feedback > Leadership Networks > Healthy Leadership > Coaching Teams > Taking Decisions > Peer Coaching Heads ofs, Senior Head ofs > Leading Leaders > Leadership Insights > Coaching Tools > Managing Diversity > Insights Discovery Profile Duration: 12 months > Leading for Performance > Toolbox Refresher > Personal Coaching level 3 > module 1 module 2 Instruments > PUMA Vision & Strategy > Organisational Change > Insights Leadership > Leading across Borders > Managing Capabilities Profile Top Management > Leading by Example > Change Case Work > Personal Coaching Duration: 6 months clever little report 2011 P : 27 | C : 2 PUMAVision Diversity and Inclusion Compensation & Benefits The diversity of our global customers, conPUMA’s goal is to provide a global set of comsumers and communities is represented petitive compensation and benefit programs as well in our workforce. We see workthat attract and retain talented employees. force diversity as an asset to our business. Our programs are reviewed regularly to To reflect and understand the broad range ensure they are aligned with our corporate PUMA EMPLOYEES of backgrounds and experiences of our goals as well as competitive practices. The diversity of our customers, consumers and communities PUMA believes compensation should be employees is a crucial factor around the world, we offer several interculaligned with performance. As a result, of our business tural trainings within PUMA. PUMA seeks to create compensation prosuccess. Since 2005 PUMA has been committed to grams where pay components such as base the Ethic Codex and since 2010 to the Charsalary adjustments and short and long-term ter of Diversity. We implemented the Charincentive awards are aligned with individual ter of Diversity in order to provide a work and/or business performance. Short-term environmental free of prejudice in which incentive (or bonus) plans are offered to Work-life Balance places in day care centers, arranging auall employees are respected, regardless of some employees. Short-term incentive PUMA sets great value on working arrangepairs, nannies or babysitters. Since the sertheir gender, race, nationality, ethnic origin, plan payouts are aligned with business perments that allow its employees to balance vices are well accepted by the employees, religion, philosophy, physical ability, age, formance and sustainability targets (e.g. work with personal commitments. This we think about extending the support. sexual orientation and identity. reduction of waste production, energy, paper includes a flexible working time model and Furthermore PUMA enlarged its company One result of the 2011 Employee Opinion and water consumption). Long-term awards compressed workweeks. sport program ‘PUMA Athlete’ by the estabSurvey in the category ‘Social and Environare comprised of stock options. As with the Work-life balance related topics are also lishment of several sport groups such as mental Responsibility’ highlights that the short-term incentive (STI) plan, long-term an essential component of different traincycling, running or soccer. Besides there vast majority of employees do feel being award payouts are based on company perings that expand competencies in susare further cooperation plans in tennis or treated fairly in relation to their gender (86 formance. tainable management of our employees. golf that will start in 2012. Well attended favorable scores; 5 indifferent scores), their The current STI plans have been further Courses like ‘Self and Resource Managesport events in 2011 were the spinning event ethnic origin (87 favorable scores; 7 indifferrolled out to the headquarters in Boston, ment Finding your inner balance’ will train that took place in the Rudolf Dassler Hall ent scores), their age (83 favorable scores; London and Hong Kong as well as to furparticipants on how to manage their own and the company sponsored participation in 7 indifferent scores) and feel treated fairly ther key countries in order to be consistent resources more effectively. The employees the B2Run in Nuremberg. In all bigger locaregardless of the state of their health and across the PUMA organization. In the bigger will reflect their own behavior patterns and tions we offer onsite fitness center facilihandicap (84 favorable scores; 11 indifferparts of our subsidiaries we have Collective develop ways to optimize their stress and ties with a wide range of fitness equipment ent scores). Bargaining Agreements in place that allow, self-management techniques. The sustainand professional guided training courses. for example, for payment above industry able management of employees is also a At selected offices the employees have the average, extended annual leave, etc. topic that is discussed in different leaderchance to use additional health related PUMA offers a variety of benefit plans. The ship trainings. services such as company physicians and company also offers a competitive set of In 2011 we started cooperation with an physiotherapists. The canteen in our major defined contribution and deferred compenexternal family service. The support relates offices provides a large range of healthy and sation retirement plans. to finding suitable care services – such as fresh food. clever little report 2011 P : 28 | C : 2 PUMAVision Occupational Health and Safety information from employees that is required Corporate Governance / Works Council and PUMA operates in its head office in Germany for the effective operation of the company or Whistleblower Policy Employee Representatives a formal health and safety committee, which as required by law. We will keep that inforPUMA wishes to ensure that its companies Due to the conversion into an SE, PUMA has is pleased to report that the injury rate has mation confidential and release it only to comply with our ethical business standards. established an SE works council with 22 further decreased in comparison to the prethose who have a legitimate need to know. If the employees feel any of these standards members that represents employees in 26 vious years. Safety-related trainings such The employees’ privacy was also evaluated may have been compromised, they have an countries. Seven members of the SE works as first aid, fire and occupational health and in the 2011 Employee Opinion Survey by the opportunity to sound alarm. To support our council are female. The chairman of the SE safety are offered on a regular basis as well question if employees feel their company Code of Ethics, which sets out PUMA’s comworks council is German and the further as a newly implemented e-learning system. operates with integrity in its internal dealmitment to ethical and responsible behavior, two members of the executive committee Details of further HR-related data is providings in the category ‘Working Relations’ (see we provide a whistleblower scheme linking are German and Dutch. ed in the table starting on page 34. figure 8). The positive scores in 2011 are to a toll-free phone hotline that is accessiThe German works council of PUMA SE cureven 5 scores higher than the Towers Watble globally. rently consists of thirteen members: five Employee Privacy son Global Retail Norm. The Global Retail women and eight men. Until November 2011 PUMA respects employee privacy and digNorm consists of 151,262 feedbacks from Governance Bodies the works council was represented by an nity. We will only collect and retain personal employees in the Global Retail Industry. Executive / Administrative Board American chairman and it is now representWith the appointment of Franz Koch as a ed by a German. One member of the works board member in March 2011 the Executive council cares especially for the needs of Board of PUMA AG was composed of seven disabled employees. F.8 Working Relationships items members from different backgrounds: four PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) vs. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) from Germany, two from America and one Communication Category 4: Working Relationships from Italy. The Executive Board consisted PUMA uses several channels and tools to 10. My company operates with integrity in its internal dealings (i.e. with employees). of six men and one woman. The Supervisupport communication within the company. sory Board included three members from One of the channels is a monthly Welcome Total Favorable Neutral Midpoint Total Unfavorable France, two from Germany and one from Day event for new employees. There, people A. PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) B. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) C.TOWERS WATSON global retail norm (N = 151,262) Sweden. The German works council of get to know each other and meet with the PUMA AG consisted of five female members representatives of CEO. As a result, people A 72 12 16 and eight male members. from their first days are introduced into the B 62* 15 * 24 * With the transformation into PUMA SE in main targets and strategies of the company. July 2011, the new administrative board Another channel consists in annual town C 67* 14 * 18 * includes nine members from diverse backhall meeting, where the Management Board Total Favorable, Difference from Benchmark: grounds including three employee repreof PUMA shares the current situation and +5 + 11 sentatives. Five members of the administhe strategic plans with all employees glob0 25 50 75 100 trative board are French, three are German ally via web cast. In 2011 the new e-magaand one is Swedish. Three out of five manzine CATch Up was first sent out globally, and * indicates a statistically significant difference aging directors are German, one is Italian and one American. Figure 8: Working Relationships clever little report 2011 P : 29 | C : 2 PUMAVision it now informs more than 6,900 employees employs corporate e-mail and messagon a monthly basis regarding the company´s ing. The first tool keeps employees updated performance and projects and provides regarding internal and external informapersonal insights. tion. The second tool allows employees A progress in the Internal Communication worldwide to install an immediate contact area was notably indicated by high posior a call. Employees at PUMA stores share tive scores to the statement ‘Changes in my information by blackboard posting. Company are usually: well communicated’ As a platform for fair and honest commuin the Employee Opinion Survey in 2011 (see nication PUMA follows a flat organizational figure 9). The increase in scores in comparistructure. The structure allows employees son to the results in 2009 proves that PUMA, from every level to communicate freely as a fast-growing company, takes care of and open with anyone higher in authority. efficient communication within the company This concerns communication both within and keeps employees up to date regarding departments and within subsidiaries and changes. headquarters. As a tool for everyday communication PUMA F.9 Internal Communication items PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) vs. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) Category 6: Internal Communication 64a. Changes in my company are usually: well communicated Total Favorable Neutral Midpoint Total Unfavorable A. PUMA 2011 (N = 5,467) B. PUMA 2009 (N = 3,217) A (2011) 63 11 26 B (2009) 53* 10 * 37 * Total Favorable, Difference from Benchmark: + 10 0 25 50 75 100 * indicates a statistically significant difference Figure 9: Category Internal Communication clever little report 2011 P : 30 | C : 2 PUMAVision Total Workforce* by employment type, employment contract and region T.1 workforce Permanent Fixed Term Ration Permanent Permanent Permanent Permanent Fixed Term Fixed Term Fixed Term Ratio Permanent Ratio Permanent Ratio Permanent Region 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 APAC 1,570 1,714 1,973 725 709 882 68% 71% 69% EMEA 4,108 3,892 4,121 571 541 615 88% 88% 87% Latin America 1,661 1,781 2,088 92 70 118 95% 96% 95% North America 2,704 2,129 2,305 7 530* 602* 100% 80% 79% Total 10,043 9,516 10,487 1,395 1,850 2,217 88% 84% 83% * In 2009 all seasonal workers were counted as permanent contracts whereas per 2010 they were split up according to their initial contractual agreement in fixed and permanent term. workforce Full-Time Part-Time T.2 Full-Time Full-Time Full-Time Part-Time Part-Time Part-Time Ratio Part-Time Region 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 ** 2011 APAC 2,243 2,358 1,915 52 65 58 2.9% EMEA 4,093 3,941 3,583 586 492 538 13.1% Latin America 1,597 1,759 1,960 156 92 128 6.1% North America 2,676 1,481 1,108 35 1,178* 1,197* 51.9% Total 10,609 9,539 8,566 829 1,827 1,921 18.3% * Big portions of the employees in Retail in the US are part-time employees. ** Permanent contracts only. clever little report 2011 P : 31 | C : 2 PUMAVision T.3 Non Managers 2009 Non Managers 2010 Non Managers 2011 Region Female Male Ratio Female Female Male Ratio Female Female Male Ratio Female APAC 1,086 769 59% 1,095 861 56% 1,259 1,076 54% EMEA 2,088 1,882 53% 1,964 1,727 53% 2,077 1,865 53% Latin America 507 1,035 33% 518 1,118 32% 623 1,369 31% North America 1,145 1,282 47% 1,104 1,244 47% 1,239 1,349 48% Total 4,826 4,968 49% 4,681 4,950 49% 5,198 5,659 48% T.4 Managers 2009 Managers 2010 Managers 2011 Region Female Male Ratio Female Female Male Ratio Female Female Male Ratio Female APAC 155 285 35% 164 303 35% 191 329 37% EMEA 258 451 36% 257 485 35% 284 510 36% Latin America 73 138 35% 72 143 33% 74 140 35% North America 130 154 46% 123 188 40% 124 195 39% Total 616 1,028 37% 616 1,119 36% 673 1,174 36% clever little report 2011 P : 32 | C : 2 PUMAVision T.5 Total Number of Employees T.7 Age distribution 2010 (permanent contracts) * figures differ from total permanent contract since New Zealand figures are not reflected for legal reasons Region Total 2009 Total 2010 Total 2011 Region < 25 years 25 – 30 31 – 40 41 – 50 51 – 55 56 – 60 > 60 Total APAC 2,295 4,423* 2,855 APAC 265 406 615 269 74 31 13 1,673 EMEA 4,679 4,433* 4,736 EMEA 805 1,071 1,252 550 130 62 22 3,892 Latin America 1,753 1,851 2,206 Latin America 373 487 617 210 48 29 17 1,781 North America 2,711 2,659 2,907 North America 1,003 536 340 179 40 16 15 2,129 Total 11,438 11,366 12,704 Total 2,446 2,500 2,824 1,208 292 138 67 9,475 25.82% 26.39% 29.80% 12.75% 3.08% 1.46% 0.71% 100.00% *One country was shifted from EMEA to APAC in the 2011 report. Total Workforce* by employment type, employment contract and region T.6 Age distribution 2011 (permanent contracts) T.8 Age distribution 2009 (permanent contracts) * employees of New Zealand voluntarily provided age brackets * figures differ from total permant contract since New Zealand figures are not reflected for legal reasons Region < 25 years 25 – 30 31 – 40 41 – 50 51 – 55 56 – 60 > 60 Total Region < 25 years 25 – 30 31 – 40 41 – 50 51 – 55 56 – 60 > 60 Total APAC 344 545 660 307 68 34 15 1,973 APAC 228 357 556 262 88 33 12 1,536 EMEA 785 1,141 1,347 619 141 64 24 4,121 EMEA 1,052 1,205 1,145 509 121 59 19 4,110 Latin America 487 562 685 251 50 29 24 2,088 Latin America 343 463 577 193 45 26 14 1,661 North America 1,097 508 395 212 52 25 16 2,305 North America 1,106 913 510 127 31 11 6 2,704 Total 2,713 2,756 3,087 1,389 311 152 79 10,487 Total 2,729 2,938 2,788 1,091 285 129 51 10,011 25.87% 26.28% 29.44% 13.24% 2.97% 1.45% 0.75% 100.00% 27.26% 29.35% 27.85% 10.90% 2.85% 1.29% 0.51% 100.00% * Total workforce in heads consisting of Retail and Wholesale employees clever little report 2011 P : 33 | C : 2 PUMAVision Turnover by region Collective bargaining agreements T.9 Total number and rate of employee initiated turnover by region T.10 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Leavings in Leavings in Leavings in Turnover in Turnover in Turnover in Region 2009 2010 2011 2009 in % 2010 in % 2011 in % Region Ratio 2009 Ratio 2010* Ratio 2011* APAC 157 402 549 7 17 19 APAC 4% 6% 6% EMEA 1,135 1,037 786 24 23 17 EMEA 38 % 45 % 47 % Latin America 329 190 202 19 10 9 Latin America 57 % 79 % 80 % North America 219 1,423* 1,217* 8 54* 42 * North America 0% 0% 0% Total 1,840 3,052 2,754 16 27 22 Total 25 % 33 % 36 % * Includes seasonal workers in the US who have an employment without finish date and are therefore counted under permanent contracts. *Permanent contracts only. Total workforce* represented Number of hours People trained Number of T.11 spent in safety-related in fire employees trained in in formal joint management training evacuation first aid workers health and safety Region 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 committees that help monitor APAC 293 238 281 58 222 278 27 26 25 and advise on occupational EMEA 9,245 8,539 5,215 2,301 3,029 2,430 756 762 949 health and safety programs Latin America 726 918 862 153 203 327 28 35 113 North America 16,040 288* 661* 3,124 6** 138*** 23 16 139 Total 26,304 9,983 7,019 5,636 3,460 3,173 834 839 1,226 * 2010 and 2011 figure do not include on-the-job trainings in the US as reported in previous years. ** Fire evacuation drill was not performed in 2010 (scheduled in Q1 2011). ***Fire evacuation has been part of the onboarding process since 2011. * Total workforce in heads consisting of Retail and Wholesale employees clever little report 2011 P : 34 | C : 2 PUMAVision Rate of injuries, accidents etc. Education training, counseling prevention T.12 Absenteeism rate Absenteeism rate due to sickness T.14 Training hours per Region Training participants by Region Region 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Region 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 APAC 1.24 % 0.41 % 0.84 % 0.46 % 0.26 % 0.42 % APAC 7,812 13,723 23,348 681 1,009 1,276 EMEA 8.18 % 6.54 % 6.02 % 2.69 % 2.51 % 2.43 % EMEA 37,631 38,434 37,459 2,649 1,763 2,037 Latin America 4.68 % 3.36 % 3.71 % 1.55 % 2.04 % 2.29 % Latin America 17,852 6,442 8,526 103 310 706 North America 0.46 % 1.11 % 1.00 % 0.15 % 0.36 % 0.70 % North America 47,010 6,150* 22,356 2,663 138* 1,780 Total 4.31 % 3.23 % 3.45 % 1.43 % 1.39 % 1.61 % Total 110,305 64,749 91,689 6,096 3,220 5,799 *Excluding ‘on-the-job’ training hours as published in previous years. T.13 Total Accidents Total Injury rate (OSHA) Fatal Accidents Region 2009 2010 2011** 2009 2010 2011** 2009 2010 2011 APAC 2 3 1 0.09 0.14 0.04 0 0 0 EMEA 24 24 16 0.54 0.57 0.41 0 0 0 Latin America 58 54 39 3.42 2.96 1.99 0 0 0 North America 28 1* 5* 1.03 0.05 0.31 0 0 0 Total 112 82 61 1.00 0.78 0.61 0 0 0 * Figure excluding outsourced warehouse operation in the US. ** Without way-to-work accidents and accidents that did not lead to a work stoppage of one day or more. * Total workforce in heads consisting of Retail and Wholesale employees clever little report 2011 PUMA.Peace FICIAL OF REP puma.Safe ORT chapter: PUMA’s Environmental Profit and Loss Account 37 Environmental Targets 2015 39 3 Sustainable Products 41 Sustainable Supply Chain Management 43 Environmental Management 58 2011 Target Assessment 72 P : 37 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe The PUMA the environment (the ‘loss’ in an E P&L ) as far as possible while continuing to deliver value to our customers – and looking for ways to The E P&L provides the following benefits to our business: > STRATEGIC TOOL Environmental return value to the environment. The findings of the E P&L transparently reveal Why did we do this? where we need to direct our sustainability We have set ourselves targets to reduce initiatives in order to make real improveProfit & Loss CO 2 emissions, energy, waste and water ments in reducing our footprint. As a result in PUMA offices, stores, warehouses and we are looking into solutions to identify direct supplier factories by 25 % by 2015 and more sustainable materials, investigating launched an environmentally friendly prodthe development of broadly accepted definiAccount uct packaging – our Clever Little Bag. While tions of sustainable cotton and rubber, and all these initiatives are crucially important have started to engage in opportunities to to help reduce PUMA’s negative environreduce greenhouse gas emissions. mental impact, never before had a company integrated and accounted for the true costs > RISK MANAGEMENT TOOL of nature’s services, which all businesses Understanding the value and nature of our depend on. environmental impacts in the supply chain In 2011, PUMA established – as the vices to a business, and the true costs of a It is a common practice in the corporate provides an early view of emerging risks, first company ever – an Environmental business’s impacts on nature. world that this ‘inherent’ value of nature is enabling us to respond strategically to proProfit & Loss Account (E P&L). The PUMA E P&L is simply a means of placnot defined and integrated into a company’s tect and enhance shareholder value. The ing a monetary value on the environmental accounting. Corporations believe that busiE P&L provides information to ensure we are impacts along our entire value chain. nesses solely rely on financials and are drivwell placed to manage underlying risk from What is this? Although we pay fees to local authorities for en by their ‘bottom lines.’ But luckily, even rising raw material costs and to deal with While nature is much more to us humans services such as the treatment and supply those concerned only about bottom-lines scarcity of supply issues. This is particuthan a mere ‘business,’ the E P&L seeks to of water, the true costs of natural resourcand not the fate of nature are beginning to larly relevant in an industry already facing answer the seemingly simple question: es and our environmental impacts remain realize that the sustainability of business increasing input costs as a result of a changHow much would our planet ask to be paid externalized and unaccounted for. The E P&L itself depends on the long-term viability of ing climate and shifting water availability. for the services it provides to PUMA if it was represents how much we would need to pay ecosystems. a business? And how much would it charge for the impacts we cause and the services A challenge for all companies is to build an > TRANSPARENCY TOOL to clean up the ‘footprint’ through pollution nature provides so that PUMA can produce, increasingly sustainable and resilient busiBy reporting the results of the E P&L we are and damage that PUMA leaves behind? market and distribute footwear, apparel and ness model while also delivering competibeing transparent about the extent of our Our operations and supply chain depend accessories made of leather, cotton, rubber tive advantage. PUMA aims to be the world’s environmental impacts. We believe this will on nature for services such as fresh water, or synthetics for the long run. most desirable and sustainable Sportlifeprovide a basis for engagement with our clean air, healthy biodiversity and producProviding goods and services will always style company and the E P&L is one of the prinstakeholders and enable us to demonstrate tive land. The PUMA E P&L is the first attempt have some impact on the environment. The cipal tools by which we hope to gain the inforclearly the impact of our activities to reduce to measure the immense value of these serchallenge for us is to reduce our impact on mation and insight required to achieve this. our impacts. clever little report 2011 P : 38 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe What are PUMA’s F.11 environmental impacts? The E P&L aims to cover all significant envipuma operations ronmental impacts from the production of raw materials right through to the point of ghgs from energy use nitrous and sulphur sale. Through consultation in the expert product distribution oxides from energy community and reviews of relevant curand travel use, product distribution rent industry and academic publications we and travel concluded that our most significant environmental impacts are greenhouse gas TIER 1 manufacturing emissions (GHG), water use, land use, air pollution and waste. It is these impacts that nitrous and sulphur waste from ghgs from energy use are therefore included in the PUMA E P&L. oxides from energy material cutting and transport of The diagram below illustrates some of the use and transport products processes that cause these impacts along of products our supply chain. TIER 2 OUTSOURcING nitrous and sulphur waste from ghgs from energy use For the full set of 2010 results of the PUMA oxides from energy material cutting and transport of E P&L, > please click here. use and transport components of components TIER 3 Processing nitrous and sulphur water use in leather ghgs from energy use oxides from energy GHGs tanning and and transport of use and transport industry materials of materials water TIER 4 RAW MATERIAL land use methane from cattle ranching conversion of irrigation water air pollution and nitrous oxides ecosystems for use in agriculture in agriculture agricultural land waste Figure 11: PUMA’s supply chain and related environmental impacts clever little report 2011 P : 39 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Environmental the major impact on ecosystem services is caused by the supply chain and especially by the raw material production while PUMA’s Targets 2015 operations have a minor impact only. The achieved results can be seen as an excellent platform to establish a process addressing the supply chain aiming to improve the overall environmental impact. Based on the results of the E P&L , PUMA is in the process of adjusting the sustainability scorecard in order to meet the requireIn 2009 PUMA defined through is SustaiWithin the supply chain we have concentrationary principles, PUMA is committed to ments as well as to design capacity building nability Scorecard the environmental tarted first on our strategic suppliers globally. eliminate the discharges of all hazardous projects for the supply chain. gets to be achieved by 2015. The scorecard Until 2015 all our strategic suppliers are chemicals from the whole lifecycle and all Two years ago, PUMA established a sustaiwas divided into three sections focusing on asked to reduce their E-KPIs by 25%. This production procedures that are associated nability advisory board, which met twice in PUMA’s operations, products and the supapplies to energy, CO 2 emission, water and with the making and using of PUMA pro2011. The intention of this advisory board ply chain and is based on the environmenwaste. ducts by 2020. is to consult us on our mission. The board tal KPI collection, which was established in By 2015 PUMA plans to offer at least 50% PUMA was the first brand which commitconsists of six members from industry, non2005 and has been improved over the years. of their products made of more sustainable ted to this ambitious goal and came to an governmental organizations and public insThe targets set until 2015 are savings of 25 % materials compared to the original material agreement with Greenpeace in late 2011 in titutes and has the duty to advise PUMA on on water, energy and a 25 % waste reduction according to the PUMA Sustainability Index, order to guarantee a zero discharge until its sustainability approach. globally on the operational side (*excluding PUMA S-Index. The S-Index defines the 2020. Together with other industry peers In order to support the sustainability initiathird party owned warehouses and fransustainability of a material and takes into PUMA developed an ambitious roadmap in tives within its departments, PUMA in 2011 chised shops) compared to a 2010 baseline. account working conditions at the product order to ensure these goals. At the same recruited four sustainability managers for PUMA’s Environmental Key Performance manufacturer as well as environmental time PUMA informed its suppliers about the PUMA.SAFE, footwear, apparel and accesIndicators (E-KPIs) are frequently measured aspects of the production process. campaign and started to develop its internal sories. against the set target. Through the globally In 2011 the environmental non-governmenprogram based on detailed capacity builused software tool Enablon we have ensutal organization Greenpeace launched the ding projects, information tools as well as red that the same data collection and anaglobal campaign ‘Detox’ to stop discharging on-site measuring of harmful substances in lyzing system is used throughout the group. harmful substances into open waters. The wastewater. The existing PUMA Restricted PUMA has offset its Carbon Emissions from campaign was targeted at the textile indusSubstances List (RSL) was adjusted in 2011. own entities for Scope 1 (direct emissions) try and the main sporting goods companies. In addition, we have established a so-called and Scope 2 (indirect emissions) since 2010 In line with PUMA’s long-term sustainability Manufacturing Restricted Substances List covering the 2009 and 2010 reporting period program, we recognize the urgent need for (M-RSL) adding the eleven harmful subsThe upper of the TEKKIS JAM is so far. reducing and eliminating industrial releases tance groups not to be used in the manufacmade of organic of all hazardous chemicals. According to our turing process as requested by Greenpeace. cotton. approach based on prevention and precauThe results of the PUMA E P&L showed that clever little report 2011 P : 40 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe F.12 -25% waste reduction design cO2 co2 reduction 50% -25% more sustainable Product/Materials energy energy products reduction product company corporate environm. -25% processes water water accounting Sustainability reduction Scorecard 100% 2015 -25% more sustainable packaging waste waste PACKAGING reduction -25% factories paperless CO2 logistics paper offices reduction waste water energy co2 social -25% -25% -25% -25% 90% waste water energy co2 rated reduction reduction reduction reduction SAFE a to b+ Figure 12: PUMA Sustainability Scorecard 2015 clever little report 2011 P : 41 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe A world in which humans can actually be pleased about the benefits their consumpSustainable tion has on the environment. A world in which humans are freed from and no longer have to live under the restraints and limitations We currently use ”Cotton Made in Africa“, organic cotton and recycled Products placed on them by always having to save, reduce, and cut down on certain polyester in some of our things for the sake of the environment. performance and lifestyle That is exactly the kind of world that the Cradle to Cradle® design concept opens appareal products. up to all of us. (Taken from the EPEA Website www.epea-hamburg.org) The PUMA E P&L revealed that over half (57%) cept envisages their redesign within circular In 2011, about of all environmental impacts are associated nutrient cycles in which value, once created, Cotton Made in Africa with the production of raw materials such remains of worth to both man and nature. ”Cotton Made in Africa“ works on the prin16% of our total as leather, rubber or cotton in PUMA’s supply chain. More than ever we have started In line with our Sustainability Index (S-Index) ciples of a social business. That means the standard that serves as a benchmark for initiative operates in accordance with sound apparel proto identify more sustainable materials to be used for our products in order to reduce the sustainable products, our long-term vision business methods, except that it does not is to use innovative and safe materials and aim to maximize the profits of individuals ducts were made extensive environmental impact occurring at the level of raw material production and design concepts for our products that can but rather to improve the conditions of life be disassembled and recycled as technical of a large number of African cotton farmers. of more sustainprocessing. nutrients or composted as biological nutri”Cotton Made in Africa“ acts in accordance ents. with the rules of the market, avoiding subsiable materials. The Cradle to Cradle® Concept dies or interventions in the system of world In a long-term cooperation with the Environmarket prices, which are dependent on sup1% of all teamsport Imagine a world in which industry, yes, mental Protection Encouragement Agency ply and demand as are the prices of virtually (EPEA) PUMA is currently investigating every factory and every building is as all raw materials. products and 15% of our wasteful and as useful as a cherry tree in lifestyle collections. the development of recyclable products full bloom. A world in which buildings – just ”Cotton Made in Africa“ is not organic cotton. according to the Cradle to Cradle® concept. In like trees – use the sun’s energy, produce But sustainable growing of the raw mateThis means we are right the Cradle to Cradle® method of production, nutrients and oxygen, provide living space rial is ensured – together with its partners, on track to reach our 2012 material flows are formed with conscious for other creatures, cleanse water, purify the initiative gives the farmers training in target of having 50% consideration of protecting resources. Usuthe air and even change to adapt to the modern, efficient growing methods, with ally, raw materials are taken and turned awareness of pesticide use, i.e. use of the of our international seasons. A world without environmental into products, are sold and then end up in pollution or waste, where only products minimum amount of pesticides. Rain fed collections made of more waste dumps or incineration plants wherewith materials that are beneficial to both cultivation and crop rotation is used. But sustainable materials. by the materials’ value is then lost forever. man and the environment are manufactured. the initiative works in close cooperation Rather than attempting to reduce the linear A world, in which materials are of such with organic cotton organizations, for joint > cotton made in africa material flows and present-day methods of high value that they flow in specially work to increase the sales of sustainably production, the Cradle to Cradle® design condesigned material cycles. grown cotton. clever little report 2011 P : 42 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe The PUMA Re-Suede In 2011, we introduced our iconic style PUMA Suede to sustainability, creating the PUMA What is recycled Re-Suede made for the environmentally conscious consumer. It has been develoPolyester? ped using the latest materials and processes through eco-friendly product innovation. The Re-Suede material is comprised of 100% recycled polyester fibers, produced by Recycled Polyester is a chemical recycling process that reduces polyester that has been both the energy consumption and the CO2 manufactured by using emissions compared to the production of previously used polyester virgin materials. The recycled polyester is scrap waste from manufacturing processes items. In the clothing world, that is repurposed to create the synthetic recycled polyester clothes material. are usually created from recycled plastic bottles. On top of reusing materials, Veganblog.de energy needed to make recycled polyester is less PETA´S German vegan blog than what is needed to Veganblog.de raffled off a pair of make virgin polyester. So PUMA Re-Suede. Over 230 people we save waste and energy, took part in the competition. “We are and ultimately by using very happy with how the competition turned out. Feedback was phenomenal,” less energy also reduce said the makers of the blog. “We think our CO 2 emissions. it is great that PUMA is taking a step in a sustainable, environmentally and animal-friendly direction.” > www.veganblog.de clever little report 2011 P : 43 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Sustainable Supply Chain Management Over 18 years ago, PUMA introduced its Code continue to have problems balancing the F.13 of Conduct (CoC) to ensure that human and improvement of social standards and mainlabor rights are respected in our daily opertaining short-term business competitiveness. ations. Until today, it remains a challenge to ensure that suppliers on all levels adhere to PUMA’s Supply Chain TIER 4 TIER 3 TIER 2 TIER 1 the PUMA Code of Conduct. Persistent nonPUMA outsources the majority of its proRAW MATERIAL Processing OUTSOURcING MANUfacturing compliance remains an issue in the majority duction and approximately 90 % of this proof the major sourcing markets due in large duction takes place in Asia. With outsourced part to weaknesses in the local and internaactivities, it is more difficult to control the tional regulatory frameworks as well as the impact on issues such as sustainability. social infrastructure in the respective countries of production—these include a lack of Exceptions: clear implementation guidelines of local Component and process laws, an inadequately educated manpower manufacturers as Tier 1 pool, poverty, and more. Adding to this, many Certain component and process manufacsuppliers continue to have limited access to turers have been labeled as Tier 1 suppliers, Cotton Fields, DYE Houses, Embroidery, Footwear, local manpower with the technical skills and such as those in the hosiery and golf indusCattle Farms, Tanneries, Cutting, ApparEl, experience to systematically manage comtries. This applies to cases where a holding pliance and further perpetuated by the high company/agent or end-process manufacRubber Plantations Packaging Printing ACCESSORIES turnover rate of compliance staff. Suppliers turer acts as the consolidator for production, in which case all the different manuTier 4 represents both Tier 3 represents Tier 2 represents any Tier 1 represents facturers required for the core production natural and synthetic the processing of raw outsourced processes, the manufacturing from processes to produce a final product are materials in their raw materials, for example for example embroiders, cutting to packaging considered Tier 1 . This is to ensure and highstate, for example a leather tannery or cutters and printers. of the finished product light responsible production throughout the cotton plants, raw hides a rubber processing and is the last stage core production process. and rubber trees. facility. in the manufacturing process. Supplier factory in Vietnam Figure 13: Outsourced manufacturing activities by tier clever little report 2011 P : 44 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe In line with the restructuring of PUMA. ed that these internal improvements will be of non-compliance. These efforts aim to inEXceptions: Safe to Humanity and Ecology divisions, the fully rolled out by mid-2012 after a process crease the numbers of factories that have following are the core programs dedicated of consultation with internal and external A and B+ ratings within our supply chain in Full process subcontractors to ensure sustainable supply chain managestakeholders. keeping with our Sustainability Scorecard Certain full-process manufacturers ment: The PUMA.Safe Handbooks provide detailed 1.0. For both social and environmental have been labeled as Tier 2 suppliers, guidelines to our factories explaining how sustainability, PUMA.Safe has supported particularly those factories that belong to comply with the PUMA Code of Conduct. various training projects to improve manto or are aligned with a Strategic Part1. Social Compliance These guidelines promote the management agement skills and worker awareness on ner Supplier/Vendor. Due to the necesMonitoring system approach to make compliance susissues such as human resources managesity to align assignment of factory In keeping with the Sustainability Scorecard tainable and effective. The Handbooks will ment including improvements in the implecodes with our Global Buying System target of 90% A and B+ suppliers by 2015, the be updated in 2012 to better conform to the mentation of freedom of association, health (GBS), PUMA.Safe reports these as auditing program remains the core mecharequirements of the California Transparenand safety and the carbon footprint of the core subcontractors or strategic Tier 2 nism by which suppliers are assessed for cy in Supply Chains Act (known as SB 657). manufacturing process. Please refer to the manufacturers. their level of compliance with PUMA’s Code In 2010, PUMA’s commitment to audit a porchapter ‘Main Projects 2011’ for details. To cover these exceptions, PUMA.Safe of Conduct > http://safe.puma.com/us/en/ tion of its lower tier suppliers (Tiers 2 and monitors and remediates issues found w p c on t en t /uplo ads / C o C _ E nglish _ F in al x . p d f 3) ended. In 2011, due to its commitments to in Tier 1 and Tier 2 under the same The auditing program includes onsite audits the results of the PUMA E P&L, the DETOX 3. Strategic Stakeholder schedule and standard. and visits as well as onsite and remote Roadmap commitments, the new legal Engagements remediation of issues found prior to the requirements set out by SB 657 as well as in PUMA.Safe advanced its engagements release of audit grades in partnership with major production countries such as Cambowith various stakeholders at local, regional the relevant sourcing partners. dia, the global lower tier monitoring policy and global levels in pursuit of its mandate. In keeping with the restructuring, various was reviewed. Though audits for some key These efforts were directed both externally internal system enhancements were under lower tier suppliers continued even prior to and internally. Please refer to the chapter development in 2011, particularly adjustthe DETOX and other commitments, pro‘Stakeholder Engagement’ for details. ments to the audit conduct, rating system posals for enhanced lower tier mapping procedures, collaboration on audits, and and monitoring were received and devellower tier policies to achieve greater transoped and a number of pilots in this area are Factory Audits parency and alignment with internal sourcexpected to be rolled out in 2012. Audit Performance 2011 ing partners as well as external partners In line with PUMA’s expansion and acquisiand commitments such as the FLA Sustaintion of new brands under the ‘Back on the able Compliance Initiative, Better Work and 2. Capacity Building Attack’ strategy and Sustainability Scorethe DETOX Roadmap. A key aspect of interon Sustainability card, the registered active supply chain nal adjustments revolves around configurDepending on the nature of the findings and grew to 540 (by the end of 2011) contract ing the acceptance of completed audits, not relationships with suppliers, they are either manufacturers (see breakdown in the next just corrective action plans, with organizarequired or encouraged to participate in a table) in 2011 from 489 the previous year. tions like Better Work and brands with siminumber of compliance enhancement proPUMA has made a commitment to audit lar Code of Conduct standards. It is expectjects to address immediate and root causes 100% of its direct and licensee suppliers clever little report 2011 P : 45 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe World Cat Ltd., PUMA’s direct Sourcing third-party complaints such as industrial T.15 Active Factories Factories with Number of Factories made factories 1 by audited in an ‘A’ grade in audits coninactive by organization, reviewed the supply chains relations, management systems weakthe end of 2011 2011 2 2010 3 ducted in 2011 4 2011 audits of its new brands and consolidation of pronesses in HR and Health & Safety among curement was implemented for general others. In Cambodia and Vietnam in particTier 1 443 332 34 372 21 categories such as apparel to take advanular, PUMA in 2011 piloted the full accepttage of strategic supplier relationships and ance of Better Work audits as replaceTier 2 67 39 1 41 2 minimize the use of short-term, agent-only ment for some of its own auditing (please Tier 3 30 11 13 transactions/relations with factories for refer to the Stakeholder Engagement secwhich there was minimal business inflution for details). Key suppliers were moniTotal 540 382 35 426 23 ence. Suppliers for specialized items such tored based on public commitments such as golf clubs and similar remained. The as those indicated in the FLA website 1. Active factories – for the purposes of this report active factories will mean both factories labeled “active” as well as those labeled “first audit”, as it is presumed by year end 2011 the process of consolidation is expected to con> https://www.fairlabor.org/fla/go.asp?u=/pub/ factories that have undergone their first audit in 2011 have either started producing for PUMA tinue well into 2012. The supply base is also mp&Page=NewsReleaseStat , among others. or remedial action is still in process and sourcing partners wish for the factories to remain expected to increase, as production for nonFactories in other countries were not monias possible suppliers. core products that are part of the Sustaintored due to the impact of numerous natu2. Including active factories during the year which turned inactive by the end of 2011. ability Scorecard implementation will be ral disasters in 2011, such as those in Japan 3. Not audited in 2011 but with a valid qualifying grade in 2011. included in the registered database. and Thailand. Continued contact through 4. Includes re-audits done in 2011. Including factories with qualifying grades5, relevant sourcing partners was maintained the total number of factories covered in 2011 to ensure that suppliers affected during the Table 15: Active factories and related audits 2011 was at least 417 or approximately 77% of the disasters could be supported. active supply base. There were 42 factories ( Tier 1 Tier 3 ) that were audited more than once in 2011 because the initial audit earlier at the Tier 1 level at least once, primarSafe prioritized auditing for new factories, in the year resulted in grades from Bto D, ily through its internal monitoring team. facilities of Strategic Partners and contract requiring 85 audits or approximately 20% of Based on the audit grade received, a facmanufacturers where critical issues had all audits conducted within the year. Forty tory may be eligible to be audited once in 2 been found. Tier 1 factories had to be re-audited within years (grade A), annually (grade B+), within the same year, mostly in China and India, to 8 months (grade B-), or within 2-6 months follow up/remediate critical issues found in (grade C or D) depending on the severity of these high-risk countries. the issues found in the first audit. Because Some factories in high-risk countries such 5. PUMA employs a grading system where of the sharp increase IN contract manufacas Cambodia and Vietnam were not officially in the highest grade A is considered a valid, turers in 2011 coupled with internal staffing re-audited because PUMA.Safe was piloting qualifying grade for 2 years. As such all factories that are rated A in the previous year are considered changes due to the PUMA.Safe restructura number of initiatives that focused less on factories with a valid, qualifying grade in the ing, it was not possible to formally audit the general compliance grade but more on current year. Hence the total number of factories with qualifying grades in 2011 include those audiall contract manufacturers in 2011. PUMA. linchpin issues that are identified through ted in 2011 plus A rated factories in 2010. audit collaboration reports and worker or > clever little report 2011 P : 46 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Distribution of Factories Because of the nature of Tier 2 suppliers, F.14 NUMBER of Audits by region and Audits by Country PUMA monitors and remediates issues in Below is the distribution of major sourcing these suppliers similar to Tier 1 suppliers. countries and the number of contract manuThese countries indicate the highest priofacturers in each. Tier 1 factories are those rity areas for monitoring and remediation. Tier 1 – Tier 3 2 suppliers of which PUMA has the highest The percentage of audits conducted in Asia 1 influence and capacity to remediate issues. was 89% of the total auditing effort. T.16 By number of active By number of active By number of factories at the end factories at the end of audits 6 in 2011 of 2011 (Tier 1) 2011 (Tier 1 Tier 3) (Tier 1 Tier 3) China (182) China (208) China (183) India (51) India (55) India (60) 1. EMEA 8% (35) Vietnam (31) Vietnam (48) Vietnam (42) 2. America 3% (12) Japan (14) Turkey (22) Indonesia (19) 3. Asia 89% (379) Cambodia (13) Indonesia (21) South Korea (18) 3 Indonesia (13) Taiwan (18) Taiwan (14) Bangladesh (12) Cambodia (17) Bangladesh (12) Figure 14: Number of audits by region South Korea (11) Japan (16) Turkey (12) The global audit performance, aggregatwere 53% A/B+, while aggregate World Cat Turkey (10) Bangladesh (15) Japan (10) ing new audits and re-audits, amounted to audits resulted in 56% A and B+ in terms of Taiwan (10) South Korea (12) Malaysia (8), South Africa (8) 53% resulting in A and B+ grades. However, aggregated audits done in 2011 (see charts the Sustainability Scorecard target of 90% on the next page). 6. Includes re-audits A and B+ covers direct source or World Cat facilities and product. Aggregate Tier 1 Table 16: Active factories and audits by country (World Cat and non-World Cat) audit results clever little report 2011 P : 47 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe F.15 Audit Performance BY tier F.16 Audit RATINGS by sourcing group (TIER 1 – Tier 3) Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 World Cat SUBS/lic Cobra/tretorn/others 400 120 372 350 96 100 300 85 80 250 63 197 200 175 60 47 150 40 27 100 23 21 20 15 15 12 41 11 50 24 17 7 7 6 13 1 2 1 0 0 A/B+ B-/C/D Total A/B+ B-/C/D Total A/B+ B-/C/D Total A B+ BC D A B+ BC D A B+ BC D Figure 15: Audit Performance by Tier Figure 16: Audit Ratings by Sourcing Group *Audit Performance data by Tier is based on all audits and re-audits done in 2011, includes re-audits done in the same factory. clever little report 2011 P : 48 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe F.17 Audits ratings (WorldCat TIER 1) t.17 Audit ratings (World Cat) inTIER 1) (WorldCat 2011 BY Tier World Cat factories A B+ BC D TOTAL Tier 1 24 73 43 12 8 160 WorldCat TIER 1 D A including RE-AUDITS 6% Tier 2 2 13 10 1 4 30 C 13% 10% Tier 3 5 1 4 10 Table 17: Audit ratings (World Cat) in 2011 by Tier B t.18 Audit ratings (all sourcing partners) in 2011 by Tier (WorldCat TIER 1) 28% B + All sourcing 43% Partners factories A B+ BC D TOTAL Tier 1 32 159 86 33 22 332 Tier 2 2 22 10 1 4 39 Tier 3 6 1 4 11 Figure 17: Audit Ratings Tier 1 Table 18: Audit ratings (all sourcing partners) in 2011 by Tier In terms of factories audited in 2011, approPUMA’s commitment to ethical sourcing is The table on Top 10 production countries ximately 60% of the Tier 1 factories audited manifest through its World Cat Strategic indicates countries with the highest volufor World Cat obtained a final grade A or B+, Supplier concept, for which the A and B+ mes and the percentage of that, which is which is better than the average of all Tier 1 grade is a criteria. World Cat sources 75% sourced from A and B+ factories. suppliers at 58%. of all products from A and B+ suppliers globally. For footwear, 67% of products derive from A and B+ factories. For apparel, approximately 79% of products are sourced only from A and B+ Strategic Suppliers, while for accessories, this figure is close to 89%. clever little report 2011 P : 49 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe F.18 Top 10 Production Countries for PUMA7 Top 10 production countries Percentage of A and B+ Country factories 1 China 73 % 2 Vietnam 74 % 3 Indonesia 89 % 4 Bangladesh 100 % 5 Cambodia 23 % 6 Turkey 98 % 7 Malaysia 30 % 8 India 60 % In 2011, six suppliers voluntarily joined the audit instruments between PUMA and BetBetter Work Vietnam program. Though ter Work is still in progress. It is expected 9 Philippines 100 % audited within the year, the audit reports that the Better Work audits will be fully 10 El Salvador 100 % from Better Work are not yet reflected in reflected in 2012. 2011 audit statistics as the alignment of 7. Based on production volumes shipped pieces/pairs of shoes Figure 18: Top 10 production countries for PUMA clever little report 2011 P : 50 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe F.19 AREAS of Failure Areas of Failure Twenty-six Tier 1 World Cat factories obtained a C or D grade during 2011. These faciliBased on Tier 1 World Cat factories with C & D Rating ties are located in China, India, Bangladesh, 27 % % New factories Vietnam, Indonesia, Zimbabwe, South AfriOthers 27 % % Existing factories ca and Mexico. Below are the percentages 27 % of findings categorized by areas of failure % Total 9% found in these facilities that required immeHarassment/abuse 7% 8% diate remediation or have not been adequa55 % tely remediated in the last audit in the faciChemicals handling & 53 % lity. The majority (58%) of the C/D graded management 54 % facilities are labeled ‘existing’ World Cat 0% suppliers, reflecting that the majority had Waste management 20 % 12 % been audited officially twice within the year. 100 % The rest are ‘new’ suppliers, which had not H &S management 80 % been registered prior to 2011. 88 % 100 % Basic H & S 93 % 96 % 64 % Freedom of Association/ 73 % grievance/communications 69 % General HR 73 % 87 % management 81 % 45 % Working hours 40 % 42 % Contract and terms 64 % 40 % of employment 50 % 73 % Benefits 93 % 85 % 73 % Wages 87 % 81 % 0% 10 % 20 % 30 % 40 % 50 % 60 % 70 % 80 % 90 % 100 % Figure 19: Areas of failure for failed factories clever little report 2011 P : 51 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Main Projects 2011 – Regional and Global Projects 2011 was a year in which PUMA.Safe devoted many resources to capacity building projects. After several years conducting pilot projects in different countries, the results show trends on topics and partners who have helped to replicate positive results. p. 1 CAMBODia Project title DESCRIPTION STATUS AS AT THE END of 2011 The program was recomAll employees of supplier Huey The duration of the project was Completed Annual Health mended by PUMA.Safe to its Chuen (around 3,000 people) took six months; weekly scheduled Check up footwear suppliers. the medical check-up. The examinacheck-up in March until report on tions were conducted by the Ministry the results in August. of Health of Cambodia. Some of the medical trainings were carried out by RHAC and RUPP. After the initial mass fainting, 49 employees were trained by The duration of the project Further details available on Comprehensive PUMA.Safe worked closely Reproductive Health Association of was three to six months; March the FLA website EHS response to the with Huey Chuen and faciliCambodia (RHAC) while 167 August 2011. mass fainting in tated trainings on the following workers attended the Royal UniverCambodia topics: HIV/AIDS, Reproductive sity of Phnom Penh (RUPP) trainings. Health & Life Skills; Mental & Apart from face-to-face trainings, Psychiatric awareness. different awareness tools were also All employees underwent used, like comics, posters and short a medical check-up. Lunch instructional films shown during booths and a breakfast feedlunch breaks. Employees took the ing program started. The daily medical check-up. temperature is checked every RHAC training is a peer-to-peer day and additional ventilation training method where selected equipment was installed. workers were initially trained by the RHAC. This was followed by two sessions of RHAC supervised peerto-peer communication of the trained > workers to other co-workers. clever little report 2011 P : 52 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Project title DESCRIPTION STATUS AS AT THE END of 2011 The project was two days’ Four factories participated. The duration of the project Completed Labor law classroom-type training on The trainees were six particiwas three months, from July awareness training labor laws. Each factory received pants from each factory compothrough September 2011. by Better Factories an training needs assessment on sed of representatives from Cambodia (BFC) site followed by a post training the general management, follow-up on site and specific HR & admin, production and coaching. compliance officers. Collaboration is still ongoing The main parties in the project Outreach and engagement Under implementation Cambodia special with BFC regarding the issues of are Better Factories Cambodia started after the Buyers Forum issues growth of footwear industry, and suppliers. Meeting in Phnom Penh in mass fainting, new subcontractAugust 2011. ing monitoring law and child labor resurgence. A supervisory skills training has been introduced at 13 suppliers already. p. 2 Georgia Project title DESCRIPTION STATUS AS AT THE END of 2011 The training was conducted at The training was conducted in The duration of the project Completed Management systems Ajara Textile Co in Batumi / two different sessions, one for the was one day. and Grievance/ Georgia. During the training, worworkers’ representatives and the Complaint/ Suggestion kers’ representatives were aware other one for the middle managesystem usage training. about the function and usage of ment of the factory. the Grievance/Suggestion/Complaint system. In addition to this the PUMA Code of Conducted was > communicated to the participants. clever little report 2011 P : 53 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe p. 3 INDONESIA Project title DESCRIPTION STATUS AS AT THE END of 2011 Freedom of The protocol assesses how the factory shall impleers are obliged to produce a Collective Bargaining Under implementation Association ment the laws around freedom of association and Agreement (CBA) that encompasses the provisions collective bargaining in Indonesia. This includes of the protocol. Protocol giving workers freedom to form unions, acknowlThe protocol was signed in Jakarta on June 2011 edge the existence of the different unions, nonby PUMA, Nike, adidas, four factories and five union interference in organizational activities and allow federations. union representatives to undertake their organiThere is already a continuing coordination zational activities among others. The brands have with adidas and other brands on the expected the obligation to disseminate the contents of the deliverables on the protocol. protocol and encourage its implementation among its suppliers and their sub-contractors. The supplip. 4 TURKEY Project title DESCRIPTION STATUS as at the end of 2011 The project was implemented The scope of the workshops was Five workshops were Completed Enhancement at the PUMA supplier SLN Tekstil. determined jointly by representaimplemented between May 11 and of internal It aimed to increase communication tives of supplier SLN Textile, June 4, 2011, one workshop per communication skills of managers, to improve PUMA and the NGO SOGEP. week. the communication between 22 managers, supervisors and Each workshop was carried managers and other personnel, managerial staff from different out for half a day and during office and to contribute to a harmonious departments participated in hours. and productive working the workshops. environment. > clever little report 2011 P : 54 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Project title DESCRIPTION STATUS AS AT THE END of 2011 A training project was implemenHundred and twenty people The training took place five days Completed Supporting human ted at Ceseka Textile. Ceseka Texparticipated in the training. That in July 2011. rights, enhancement tile is located in the Fatsa-Ordu/ group of participants was formed of communication Blacksea Region in Turkey and it randomly and included the same and combating abuse is one of the companies owned number of people from each line. at the workplace by Milteks Group. This project is a part of the institutional responsibility work of Milteks, and a good example of continuing collaboration. The NGO SOGEP gave the training. Workshop on During this workshop the PUMA The HR managers of eight direct The workshop took place one Completed Code of Conduct and the PUMA. PUMA suppliers attended. day in December 2011. PUMA.Safe requirements Safe policies and practices for HR managers requirements were communicated to the participants. Policies revision and internal Code of Conduct implementation were required from the participants. Collaboration with This was a collaboration with The Turkish Ministry of Labor The duration of the project Completed the Turkish Ministry of Labor created the handbooks. They were was half a day. the Turkish to create and distribute a set of handed out and explained to the Ministry of Work handbooks on labor law among workers in one of the T2 factories employees. The handbooks were (around 35 employees). issued by the Ministry of Labor, addressing special working conditions including child labor, young and female workers, compensation rights, salaries in the labor code, the right to rest and working times. > clever little report 2011 P : 55 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe p. 5 VIETNAM Project title DESCRIPTION STATUS OF THE END 2011 Multi-Brands To provide participating After the HRMS pilot phase col.Committee members have been Completed Human Resources factories with methods and tools laboration between adidas, organized and maintained to to measure and evaluate their Columbia, New Balance ended continue to work on the factories’ Management Systems HRM performance. in early 2010, PUMA has continapplication of the HRMS training. (HRMS) Project To build a framework for effecued to collaborate with Adidas Results: tive human resources managefor the second phase with three Installation of a proper HRMS ment in the factory that results additional Apparel & Accessories committee / echo trainer / in sustainable compliance with factories starting April 2010 and developed employees code standards and supports high ending June 2011. handbook / SWOT / HR Tools like performance workplace systems After phases 1 & 2, periodic meetJob Descriptions, Job Analysis, and production processes. ing activity (every two to three Job Evaluation / HR KPIs The project management was months and up to seven meettracking/ Analyze practice done by TÜV Rheinland Vietnam. ings) between factories’ HRMS for root causes / Target & CAP Challenges: High turnover of trained HR staff in participating factories, difficult implementation of higher HR concepts in a factory setting. Internal Provide understanding for the The project was conducted by TÜV Approximately 60 people from Completed Communication importance of enhanced internal Rheinland and Kind Management all World Cat Vietnam factories Workshop communication between emploInternational. attended. yees and management due to the risks of disputes and wildcat strikes in Vietnam. > clever little report 2011 P : 56 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Project title DESCRIPTION STATUS OF THE END 2011 Better Work Vietnam is a After receiving the factory In 2011, six factories signed up to Ongoing Better Work voluntary program for apparel assessments, PUMA is in the program. Four were Vietnam suppliers. Managed by the Interthe process of reviewing the assessed for the period ending national Labour Organization and conversion of the assessment 2011. the International Finance Corpofindings into the PUMA ration, factories that sign up are rating system. assessed regularly and supported by the BWV team through monthly CAP improvement activities involving the factory’s management and workers. Brands that support the program accept BWV assessments in replacement for their own audits and work with the factory and BWV in facilitating remediation of issues found. Capacity-Building Activities by Country clever little report 2011 P : 57 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Supplier Roundtables regarding social insurance, labor shortagStrategic Initiatives status of factory staff responsible for manIn 2011 PUMA organized roundtables for its es, energy savings, subcontractor manageWages in the Supply Chain datory provision of labor rights to a true HR suppliers in the following countries: China, ment and workers from ‘Generation Y.’ In 2009, PUMA engaged with the Asia Floor officer or department, and fostering strongVietnam, Indonesia, Cambodia and India. The Indonesian Roundtable focused on how Wage Campaign (AFWC) to start looking for er links between compliance and producThe aim of the roundtables is to discuss the to implement the new Freedom of Assoways to implement fair wages in the supply tion, these actors would be better able to most important social and environmenciation (FoA) Protocol signed by PUMA and chain. The wage ladder methodology, which understand and then adapt the dimensions tal challenges in the country as well as to other brands together with union federawas piloted in Turkey in the Jo-In project of fair wages internally. Sixty-five factories inform the suppliers about PUMA’s news. tions in Indonesia (see Indonesian projects that PUMA participated in, was used as a and five brands participated in the HRMS Originated by PUMA.Safe in 2010, the purabove). Better Work Indonesia (BWI) also starting point to gauge how far PUMA suppilot projects in China and Vietnam that pose is to offer a problem-solving mechaparticipated and presented its program as pliers were from the levels set by the AFWC. started in 2006. The next phase of the pronism through an interactive discussion well as new developments on the issue of In 2010, an initial figure for some key sourcject is being redesigned to more strongly from/among factories. All roundtables were contract work and the ILO/BWI view on the ing countries was computed, which highlink to wage, productivity and industrial developed and arranged by the PUMA.Safe FoA Protocol. lighted the need to elevate the discussion relations systems to be tested in one of the team based on the actual needs or weak The Roundtables in Vietnam counted with from searching for the right ‘delta’ to how to countries included in the Asia Floor Wage areas from the factories identified during 60 participants from diverse suppliers and move factories up the rungs. Campaign. the SAFE audits. Experts are consulted for besides the given update on PUMA projects In 2011 different implementation models PUMA recognizes that the approach to specific topics. in the country, the numerous meetings were presented and discussed by the Fair implement fair compensation for workRoundtables in India were supported by focused on health and safety management Labor Association (FLA) during a brands ers must be managed in a cross-functional PUMA’s sourcing team and were held in systems, the introduction of a library for meeting in Istanbul. One of these included manner in order to mitigate impacts not Bangalore and Delhi. All of PUMA’s stratelabor law sources, and the discussion on the fair wage assessment methodology, in just within the enterprise but also within gic partners participated. As a result of the ‘worker retention’ mechanisms. which PUMA was the first brand to particithe community around it. As such, LEAN meeting, it was possible to identify training pate in 2010. The methodology did not look manufacturing and other quality projects needs in order to map the capacity-building at defining what a fair wage is per se, but with Strategic Suppliers would be linked projects for 2012. rather assessed the different dimensions with HRMS and related initiatives. An interIn Cambodia the discussions revolved and factors that comprise and influence a nal PUMA.Safe task force was established around the better implementation of induswage setting system in a facility. Twentyin 2011 to manage these linkages. trial relations from the management standfive factories in China, Vietnam, Cambodia, PUMA continues to work with all its key point, the mass fainting cases in the country Malaysia and Indonesia participated in this stakeholders to define more effective and general health and safety issues. Repexercise in 2010. approaches, combining existing initiatives resentatives of 13 factories participated in PUMA is currently reviewing the results of with innovative ideas. PUMA aims to conthe meeting as well as representatives from the assessment. While this review is ongotinue working with other industry players Better Factories Cambodia. ing with the actual suppliers involved, PUMA as well as a multi-stakeholder approach The China Roundtable showed a series of decided to link its previous work on improvis needed to ensure sustainable achievebest practice examples on topics such as ing HR management systems (HRMS) and ments in this area. energy efficiency and handling labor shortimproving productivity in the factories with ages. The participants had open discusthe specific intention to improve these wage sions on challenges and potential solutions dimensions. By elevating the prevalent clever little report 2011 P : 58 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Environmental and recycling concepts for our products, starting from design for recycling and ending at concrete plans for physical recycling Management of PUMA goods at original PUMA suppliers for selected products. > Our acceptance of the Greenpeace Detox campaign ( > www.greenpeace.org/detox) and In 2011, we initiated a number of projects to pave the way towards achieving our our active role to form an industry collaboenvironmental and sustainability targets in 2015 laid out in our Sustainability Scorecard. ration and roadmap toward zero discharge of hazardous chemicals helped us to refoThese projects also aimed at smoothing out weaknesses in our data collection process, cus or chemicals management approach particularly in terms of environmental performance data from our suppliers. and lead us to formally accept the precautionary principle and include it into our environmental and chemicals policies. > We set up a specialized PUMA.Safe Eco> The inclusion of key Tier 1 suppliers into India, Indonesia and Malaysia better defined > In an effort to promote industry collabology Team focusing solely on environmenour environmental management software, and explained our environmental data colration, we joined the Sustainable Apparel tal aspects. This team is comprised of four Enablon, helped us to gain a better overlection to our manufacturing partners. Coalition and started the development of fulltime employees dedicated to environview on the direct environmental impacts dedicated environmental audits (in addition mental data collection and management and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of > The establishment of an Executive Susto our existing PUMA.Safe audit programs within PUMA and our suppliers, chemicals our strategic partner suppliers on a global tainability Report compiled by three dedienvironmental section) for supplier sites management and product lifecycle thinking. scale. cated Sustainability Managers covering all with particularly high risk on environmental three product divisions at PUMA linked our pollution. > Our PUMA Sustainability Advisory Board > Projects for main suppliers in China suppliers performance with production of comprising six external experts in the fields and Vietnam to raise awareness, identify ‘more sustainable’ products. of social accountability, biodiversity, climate gaps and build capacity to better manage change, waste, external auditing and susresource (i.e. water, energy, etc.) use and > For our offices worldwide, we introduced tainable consumption and production held environmental impact, including a publica Sustainability Charter, to be filled in and its first meeting in November 2010 and two private partnership with the DEG, German displayed by each country’s main office to further meetings in 2011. Development Agency, and various local and highlight the sustainability efforts impleregional subject matter expert organizamented at each site. > Our innovative PUMA Environmental tions. Profit & Loss Account helped us identify > An ‘end of life’ study conducted by the where the most important environmental > The release of a supplier reporting Bifa Institute as well as our newly formed impacts lie for PUMA and where we have to manual and physical training sessions for partnership with EPEA Umweltforschung direct our initiatives to have the best impact. suppliers from China, Vietnam, Cambodia, spearheaded the development of re-use clever little report 2011 P : 59 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Environmental Key T.19 E-KPI per Offices/ Offices/ Stores/ Stores/ WareWarePerformance Indicators staff employee m² employee m² houses/ houses/ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 category employee m² Our collection of environmental key performance indicators started in 2005. While this 2009 collection was first carried out using simplified tools, we aligned in 2008 with our major Energy consumption (kWh) 5,345 147 7,226 249.3 16,286 56.1 shareholder and French Luxury group PPR Water (m³) 11.7 0.94 12.5 0.87 24.6 0.5 and upgraded our collection tool to a more user-friendly system, Enablon. Waste (kg) 179 4.9 733 25.3 2,799 9.6 In 2010 we reported for the first time on Paper (kg) 69 1.2 36 0.63 73 0.2 PUMA’s wider ecological footprint namely the total CO 2 emissions, energy, water and 2010 waste. Here you can find an overview of the relaEnergy consumption (kWh) 5,612 163 10,238 281 14,775 61 tive energy, water, waste and paper figures Water (m³) 11.5 0.8 11.7 0.8 21.1 0,5 for PUMA offices, stores, warehouses for PUMA entities worldwide (Table 19), total Waste (kg) 146 4.2 939 25.7 2,273 9.4 figures for the company (Table 20), as well Paper (kg) 56 1 30 0.4 42 0.2 as CO 2 emissions (Table 21). 2011 Net Energy consumption4(kWh) 5,465 151.5 9,126 276.2 13,638 65.6 Water (m³) 11 0.3 10.6 0.3 13.4 0.1 Waste (kg) 178 4.9 978 25 2355 11.3 Paper (kg) 59 1.6 25 0.6 35 0.2 1. Figures include PUMA owned or operated offices, warehouses and stores. Outsourced warehouses and franchised stores are excluded. 2. Includes paper consumption for office usage in offices, warehouses and stores, excludes cardboard and paper bags consumption. 3. Data includes extrapolations or estimations where no real data could be provided. 4. Excludes onsite generated and consumed energy as well as energy produced onsite and sold to the grid. 5. Store data on water, waste and paper is based on data collection in sample stores in 15 countries. Table 19: Environmental Key To achieve total consumption figures, the data received from the sample stores was extrapolated. Performance Indicators for PUMA owned and operated entities globally clever little report 2011 P : 60 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe T.20 Total Environmental Key Performance Data for PUMA owned and operated entities Total E-KPI figures 1,2,3,4 for PUMA offices, stores, warehouses as well as owned footwear production in Argentina 5 for PUMA entities worldwide E-KPI Data Total Total / Total/m² Total Deviation / % Total / Deviation / % Total /m² Deviation / % Employee Employee 2010 2011 Energy consumption*(kWh) 75,922,511 8,007.5 156 74,935,232 -1 7171 -10 159 2 Water (m³) 116,532 12.3 0.24 113,366 -3 11.3 -8 0.24 0 Waste (kg) 6,458,148 681.1 13.2 6,245,663 -3 624 -8 13 -2 Paper (kg) 379,258 40.01 0.47 394,352 4 39 -3 0.8 70 1. Figures include PUMA owned or operated offices, 3. Data includes extrapolations or estimations 5. All other production is outsourced to 6. Store data on water, waste and paper is warehouses and stores. Outsourced warehouses where no real data could be provided. independent supplier factories, some warehouse based on data collection in sample stores in and franchised stores are excluded. 4. Excludes on-site generated and consumed operations are outsourced to independent logistic 15 countries. To achieve total consumption 2. Includes paper consumption for office usage energy as well as energy produced on site and providers, franchised stores are excluded. figures, the data received from the sample in offices, warehouses and stores, excludes card sold to the grid. stores was extrapolated. board and paper bags consumption. Table 20: Total Environmental Key Performance Data for PUMA owned and operated entities clever little report 2011 P : 61 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe T.21 PUMA CO2 Emissions by Scope CO2 emissions 1,2,3,4 for PUMA owned and operated entities as well as transportation of goods 5 CO2 Data Total Total/ Total Deviation /% Total / Deviation / % employee employee 2010 2011 Scope 1 1. Direct CO 2 Emissions Fossil Fuels (t) 2,275 0.24 2,062 -9 0.20 -18 2. Direct CO 2 Emissions Business Travel Road (t)6 4,701 0.50 4,554 -3 0.44 -12 Total Scope 1 6,976 0.74 6,616 -5 0.63 -14 Scope 2 Indirect CO 2 Emissions Electricity & Steam (t)7 27,758 2.93 2,3743 -14 2.27 -22 Total Scope 2 27,758 2.93 2,3743 -14 2.27 -22 Scope 3 1. CO 2 Emissions from Business Travel train transportation (t) 79 0.01 97 24 0.01 12 1. CO 2 Emissions from Business Travel air transportation (t) 8,553 0.90 10,976 28 1.05 16 2. CO 2 Emissions from B2B transport of goods (t)5 44,182 47,809 Total reported Scope 3 52,814 58,882 Total 87,548 89,241 Table 21: PUMA CO2 Emissions by Scope 1. Figures include PUMA owned or operated offices, warehouses and stores. Outsourced warehouses and franchised stores are excluded. 2. Data includes extrapolations or estimations where no real data could be provided. 3. Excludes onsite generated and consumed energy as well as energy produced onsite and sold to the grid. 4. Includes own production sites in Argentina. All other production is outsourced to independent supplier factories, some warehouse operation are outsourced to independent logistic providers, franchised stores are excluded. 5. B2B transport of goods figure 2010 not comparable as calculated with a different method and different emission factors, further entities were also added in 2011. For more details please refer to the B2B Transport of Goods Emission section of this report. 6. For 2011, country-specific emission factors were used for part of the data, while for 2010 an average emission factor of 187gr CO 2 /km was used. Rental Car usage and privately owned car usage for business also partly included. 7. For 2011, electricity from renewable energy was counted with zero emissions. clever little report 2011 P : 62 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Explanation on data quality and comparability: The environmental data for PUMA owned and tions, we use the global average values we defined a simplified CO 2 emission per FTE (specific to offices, stores and factor of zero. operated entities covers hundreds of sites in 46 countries. warehouse) of the previous year in case The calculation of the KPIs is based on calculated, no other reference value can be obtained.) We also added an option for the reportextrapolated and estimated figures and the emission ing of average emission factors for comfactors of French Environment Agency ADEME. To overcome some of the challenges pany cars on country level, thus seeing related to our stores and get more relia more differentiated picture when it able data for the KPIs water, waste and comes to emissions from our PUMA car paper, this year we introduced a new profleet. Where no specific emission factor Sometimes global average figures were the physical sites considered in the data cess to collect store level data. Choosing is available, we use an average emission used if no more specific data was availacollection changes over time. For exam15 countries representing over 70% of all factor of 187gr CO 2 /km. ble. In certain countries typically several ple, the logistic operations in Japan were PUMA retail employees, we sent out a and sometimes up to 90 stores (excludincluded in the 2010 data consolidation, store specific excel sheet for those KPIs, The above-mentioned challenges and ing franchised stores) are in operation. but excluded in 2011 due to the fact that asking the country subsidiaries to collect changes limit the comparability of our Warehousing activities are either run by the warehouse is operated by an external real data based only on in store measureE-KPI data over time. Nevertheless, we PUMA or completely outsourced and thus third party. ments and/or invoices for selected samare still confident that the accuracy and do not fall under the PUMA reporting ple stores. All 15 countries responded comparability of our E-KPI data has scope. Adding to this complexity is the fact that positively and provided respective data improved over time. For example, we many stores are operated in shopping sets. This data was then validated by moved to site level reporting for offices While we are relatively confident about malls where it is hard and sometimes local Finance Management as well as during the 2011 reporting campaign. the data collection procedures for our impossible to collect firsthand data on the PUMA.Safe department, excluding For our stores, site level reporting was main offices where we have been trackenergy, water and waste figures since implausible data sets where necessary realized for selected sample stores as ing E-KPIs since 2005, some smaller those services are provided and managed and replacing those by global average explained above. We will consider site offices but even more so the hundreds of by the malls. In these cases extrapolafigures for 2010. We then extrapolated level reporting for all PUMA stores within stores worldwide still find it challenging tions or estimations are used. the results based on average per FTE the next reporting cycle. to collect precise data on environmental figures for the 15 countries and all PUMA performance. Therefore, we are working with extraporetail stores globally. lations and sometimes also estimations In addition, each year new stores are for those entities, where meaningful data For the data collection 2011, we added opened while others are closed down could not be collected at the respective the possibility to report on the use of purmeaning that the number and location of closing date for the year. (For the estimachased renewable electricity, for which clever little report 2011 P : 63 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe F.20 & franchised stores). On a square meter footprint. Where own toilets are provided, ENERGY 1 – PUMA Offices, Average Mwh per EMPLOYEE basis, the consumption for offices 2011 was the consumption fluctuates with the amount 7% lower than 2010. of consumers visiting the stores. In an effort to contribute to renewable enerReduction of water consumption remains 6,00 5.61 gy creation, PUMA operates photovoltaic a challenge and more efforts need to be 5.34 5.47 power plants at its main offices in the USA undertaken to reach the 2015 target. and Germany. Our recent E P&L has revealed that an insig5,00 2011 has seen a relative reduction in enernificant amount the total water used in gy use in PUMA offices from 5.61 to 5.47 PUMA’s entire value chain can be attributed 2015 4,00 TARGET MWh per employee. The reduction can be to PUMA operations. attributed to various sustainability projects Despite this, we have installed state-of-theat some of our major offices worldwide art water-saving technology at our PUMA3,00 such as our Hong Kong Asia Pacific office Vision Headquarters. Rainwater is collected which removed over 100 excessive light and used for sanitary facilities, urinals are bulbs, installed energy efficient light bulbs, run with a dry system that is only flushed 2,00 installed timers on electrical equipment, periodically. Other offices such as the PUMA installed energy-saving software onto comVillage in Vietnam have installed water 1,00 puters and promoted energy saving through meters during the year 2011 to better track the use of visual aids around the office. consumption. We are still committed to our original goal 0,00 2009 2010 2011 Water Consumption of reducing water consumption by 25% PUMA entities do not consume any signifiuntil 2015. However, based on the abovecant amounts of water for industrial purmentioned almost insignificant amounts of Figure 20: Average energy consumption per year in PUMA offices worldwide poses. The majority of water consumed is water used in our own entities which are used for sanitary purposes and gardenalso mainly based in regions with low water Energy Consumption ing water. Over the past two years we have scarcity risks such as the US East Coast, Historically, we have measured the energy seen a slight year-on-year reduction with Central Europe and Vietnam we will shift consumption of our own entities in kwh/ an average consumption of 11.0 m3 per our focus to where water savings have a FTE, with a particular focus on the PUMA employee in 2011. This reduction can be much greater impact, namely at our fabric offices worldwide. The PUMA Sustainability attributed to the worldwide awareness rissuppliers, tanneries as well as cotton supScorecard 2015 sets a target of 25% energy ing within PUMA offices. Water consumppliers worldwide. reduction between 2010 and 2015. We have tion at stores and warehouses is between This approach means we will have to extend decided to base the reduction calculation 11 and 13 m3/FTE. Particularly data collecour data collection for production data and not only on a per-staff equivalent for offices, tion from PUMA stores remains challenging. partner with our Tier 3 and 4 suppliers to but also trace the per-square meter conMany stores rely on central sanitary faciliachieve reliable data while generating sig1. Excludes on-site generated and consumed energy sumption for PUMA offices, warehouses ties, particularly within shopping malls and nificant savings. as well as energy produced and sold to the grid. and stores (excluding external warehouses hence have limited influence on their water clever little report 2011 P : 64 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe F.21 WATER – Puma Offices, Average m 3 per employee F.22 WASTE – PUMA Offices, Average kg per EMPLOYEE 13,0 200 179 178 11.7 180 12,0 11.5 160 146 11.0 11,0 140 120 10,0 2015 100 TARGET 9,0 2015 80 TARGET 8,0 60 40 7,0 20 6,0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Figure 21: Average water consumption per year in PUMA Offices worldwide Figure 22: Average waste creation per year in PUMA offices worldwide As a first step in this direction, we already tion of a specific dye-house audit protocol Waste and Recycling office level. This can partly be attributed to started using Cotton Made in Africa in 2008. will ensure a much more in-depth analysis Next to energy, CO 2 and water, waste is one entity unable to divide their office and CmiA cotton is largely rain-fed and cultivatof the water usage, the water-saving techanother important element of our Sustainalogistics operations. Despite the increase in ed without artificial irrigation. We have also niques applied and the existing waste water bility Scorecard 2015. Again, waste from our waste creation per employee from offices, banned the use of cotton from Uzbekistan, a treatment technology. own operations is only a minor part comthe overall waste creation from all PUMA country known for growing cotton in large We have set a target for all main tannerpared to our main indirect waste creation entities is decreasing as shown in Table 20 monocultures that rely heavily on irrigation. ies delivering to PUMA suppliers to join the through the production process of PUMA above. A further step is the development of a joint Leather Working Group (LWG) and undergo goods. The main input material that turns In PUMA warehouses and stores we reuse dye-house audit protocol within the GreenLWG certification. LWG certification includes into waste for our offices, stores and warecardboard boxes wherever possible. First peace Detox Industry Alliance. We already thorough and tannery specific environmenhouses is paper and cardboard. Between trials with reusable transportation boxes started auditing dye-houses as part of our tal audits as well as installing state-of-the2010 and 2011 we witness an increase in from our central German warehouse to two normal compliance routine, but the applicaart waste-water treatment equipment. waste of just over 32kg per employee at stores within a 100km range have proven clever little report 2011 P : 65 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe successful and we are currently evaluating PUMA suppliers to intensify our research F.23 PAPER 1 – PUMA Offices, Average kg per EMPLOYEE how this system could be implemented on a and development for products which can larger scale. either decompose harmlessly into nature or The implementation of our new footwear can be recycled after their product life. packaging concept, the ‘Clever Little Bag,’ On the other side of the product-recycling 80 further adds to the avoidance of cardboard concept, we started using recycled mate69 59 waste in our stores as it saves 60% of cardrials for the manufacturing of our prod70 board compared to the conventional PUMA ucts. One example in our footwear range 56 shoe box. is the PUMA Re-Suede, which is composed 60 Overall, we recycle approximately one-third of recycled material in the upper part. Our of the waste from our own entities on a apparel division also introduced recycled 50 global scale, with an increasing trend. polyester in numerous products. 2015 Looking at our overall footprint, the majorThe ultimate goal within the waste and recy40 TARGET ity of waste is generated within our supply cling part of our work will be to achieve chain and, not to forget, also at the end of closed material cycles within our own enti30 our product life when consumers discard ties but more importantly within our prodPUMA products. ucts and packaging systems. 20 For both upstream (suppliers) and downWe acknowledge that with multiple materi10 stream (end of life), we initiated projects in als used in most PUMA products today and 2011 to improve our overall performance on the majority of shoes and clothing in gener0 waste and reduce the associated impact. On al still ending up in household waste, we are 2009 2010 2011 the supplier side, we constantly motivate still far away from this goal. But we believe and challenge our manufacturing partners that it is mandatory for us to start acting on Figure 23: Average paper consumption per year in PUMA offices worldwide to accurately measure their waste creation our producer responsibility and implement and find ways to reduce the waste created the first steps in this direction. through higher material efficiency, re-use still be some way ahead of us. Greenhouse gases from employee business of off-cuts and other scrap material or recyPaper Consumption travels (rail and flights) and transportation cling of any waste that cannot be avoided or From using primarily email as a commuCarbon Emissions of goods are recorded under our Scope 3 re-used. nication tool, to refraining from unnecesMost if not all relevant carbon emissions emissions and can be found in Table 21. On the product side, we commissioned a sary printing, continuing with preset duplex of PUMA’s own activities are caused by study by the Bifa Institute on how to best printing on centralized printer stations to energy consumption such as the burning treat our existing products at the end of the using digital systems for corporate commuof natural gas for heating offices and warenormal product life. Not satisfied with the nications, catalogs and even this Annual and houses, fuel consumption through PUMA results, we started a companywide project Sustainability Report, we follow a vision of employees traveling by car (Scope 1 Emison design for recycling. Focusing on the a paperless company. However, with a consions) and the consumption of electricity principle of Cradle to Cradle® , we partnered sumption of approximately 59kg of paper per and steam for own entities such as offices, 1. Includes direct and indirect office paper usage, with EPEA Umweltforschung and several year and FTE for our offices this vision may stores and warehouses (Scope 2 Emissions). excludes cardboard usage. clever little report 2011 P : 66 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Scope 1 and 2 Emissions for the last three years United Kingdom.) In total, we were able to Business to Business (B2B) and offsets for the last two years cover around 10% of our total electricity CO2 Emissions from consumption from renewable resources. Transportation of Goods In addition, we agreed with German railway On a global scale, we were able to calculate T.22 CO2 Emissions and Offsets company Deutsche Bahn to purchase only our carbon footprint from the transportaCarbon Neutral rail tickets for our Gertion of goods (B2B) more precisely than in 2009 2010 2011 man staff approximately 10% of the total the past by applying more specific emission Scope 1 Direct Emissions from 2,509 2,275 2,062 PUMA staff and started tracing the averfactors. Fossil Fuels (t) age emission factors for the PUMA car fleet For 2011, the emission parameters were Emissions from Em3,961 4,701 4,554* worldwide. With an average emission factor adjusted by type of goods for roadfreight. ployee Road Travel (t)¹ of 138 gr/km, the German PUMA car fleet For railfreight and seafreight, the geowas awarded a green rating in 2011 by the graphical locations determine the emisScope 2 Indirect Emissions 24,388 27,758 23,743 from Electricity and NGO ‘Deutsche Umwelthilfe.’ sion factors while the length of routes has Steam (t)² Going one step further, we offered a free been considered for airfreight. Based on Total (t) 30,858 34,734 30,359 commuter ticket for the local public transthe unchanged methodology in 2010 for data port system to our head office staff in Gercollection in 2011, the above emission facOffset (t) 40,000 35,000 tbd many for the first time in 2011. tors are weighted average emission factors PUMA North America entered into an for rail, sea and airfreight. 1. Also includes some emissions from rental cars and personal cars for business usage. agreement with parcel service UPS to send For roadfreight , the products (footwear, 2. Purchased renewable energy is recorded with a simplified emission factor of zero. all parcels by using a carbon-neutral parcel apparel and accessories) are in comparison service product. less heavy and require more space in trucks. Table 22: PUMA Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions and offsets In a joint project between PUMA North Therefore, the assumptions of mass occuAmerica and Premier Power Renewable pancy rate and empty return rate are more Energy Inc., our outsourced Logistic Center severe. Using the averages from the Institute As part of PUMA’s efforts to minimize our same rural Kenyan area to create qualified used by PUMA North America installed a for Energy and Environmental Research of impact on the environment, we have been job opportunities for the local population. large scale photovoltaic power plant on the Heidelberg (IFEU) which has run a complete offsetting Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Via our French parent company, PPR, we roof of the logistic center used for PUMA study in this field, PUMA uses the emission since 2010 (covering the 2009 and 2010 acquired and retired almost 35,000 tons of goods. factor 135.3 gr CO2 /t.km. emissions respectively). After acquiring CO 2 Carbon Credits in 2011 from Wildlife To improve the accuracy of transport reportand retiring 40,000 tons of Carbon Credits Works (covering the 2010 emissions). ing for railfreight , a differentiation was made in 2010 through two African projects, our In an effort to not only offset but also, perregarding the geographical area of travel offset in 2011 was carried out in cooperation haps more importantly, to minimize our activity based on emission factors of ADEME with Wildlife Works, a nature conservation carbon emissions, electricity for all major and GHG Protocol. Thus different emission company which not only saves carbon emisGerman PUMA operations is generated factors are used per country resulting in sions by conserving ecologically valuable from renewable resources. (Further PUMA the above weighted emission factor. Speland in Kenya, but also engages with PUMA subsidiaries using renewable electricity are cific emission factors for railfreight differ in the production of apparel products in the PUMA Australia, PUMA Benelux and PUMA significantly because of the electricity mix clever little report 2011 P : 67 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe been integrated as a weighted factor for age transport distance increased by 7%, T.23 PUMA Emission factors 2010-2011 2010 and 2011. advantaged by sales activities where this 2010 old factors 2010 new factors 2011 new factors In order to measure the effects of carbon transport mode was the favorable one. Transport mode reduction activities against 2011, the impleThe railfreight transport tonnage increased Roadfreight 87.4 g CO ² /t.km 135.3 g CO ² /t.km 135.3 g CO ² / t.km mentation of the new emission factors were by 7% and led to 597 tons CO 2 together with combined with a review of the transportathe more country-specific emission facRailfreight 18.3 g CO ² /t.km 24.7 g CO ² /t.km 25.1 g CO ² / t.km tion emissions of 2010. These measures led tors. As this transport mode is also used for Seafreight 100.0 kg CO ² /teu.day to a calculated reduction in total emissions inland transportation purposes, it is affectfrom 66,532 tons by 33% to 44,182 tons ed by the container volume that increased Seafreight 8.9 g CO ² /t.km to be reported for 2010. The PUMA entiin 2011. The transport distances remained Seafreight 70.6 g CO ² /TEU.km 70.8 g CO ² /TEU.km ties COBRA and Dobotex were additionally stable in 2011. included in restatement of 2010 while BranThe intensified purchasing activities influRiverfreight 33.7 g CO ² /t.km 34.0 g CO ² /t.km 34.0 g CO ² / t.km don reported in 2011 for the first time. enced the number of TEUs (twenty foot Airfreight 1,070.0 g CO ² /t.km 618.0 g CO ² /t.km 619.4 g CO ² / t.km For 2011, roadfreight emissions increased equivalent unit) in seafreight transportaby 18% because the worldwide road tontion, which increased by 10% while CO 2 nage increased by 10% while also the averemissions increased by 13% compared to Table 23: Old versus new emission factors used for the calculation of CO 2 emissions for transportation of PUMA goods T.24 CO2 Emissions from transportation of PUMA Goods or variation of electric and diesel-hauled Based on the above, the riverfreight emisCO2 comparison 2010 new 2011 new Dev. Dev.% trains in different countries, as well as the sion factor remains nearly unchanged as length and weight of the trains. there are only minor changes for emission Roadfreight (tons) 6,194 7,330 1,136 18.3 For seafreight , PUMA uses different marifactor calculation. time routes and thus different emission facFor airfreight , a difference is made between Railfreight (tons) 546 597 51 9.3 tors are used by route. The effects of slow short/medium hauls and long hauls in Seafreight (tons) 21,585 24,312 2,727 12.6 steaming for seafreight transports are parorder to improve the precision of transport Riverfreight (tons) 0 0 0 0,0 ticularly noticeable on the Multi-Trade and reporting this year. The limit between the Europe-Asia routes, which are relevant for two kinds of trips is defined to stand at 3,000 Airfreight (tons) 15,857 16,569 712 4.5 PUMA. Usage of an emission factor per TEU km for a one-way trip, a weighted emission Total (tons) 44,182 48,808 4,626 10.5 and day, or tons and kilometers, no longer factor is used. Fuel consumption for Aircovers the practice of slow steaming as freight transportation is particular high 1. As a new calculation methodology and emission factors were implemented for 2011, the old figure fuel consumption is decreasing. Therefore, during takeoff and landing, so emissions reported in 2010 is no longer comparable. PUMA applied maritime route emission facare relatively higher for short-/medium 2. Figure restated for comparability reasons due to new emission factors used and extended scope tors as above indicated weighted emission haul, ‹3,000 km distance, than for long-haul covering two additional entities. factors for 2010 and 2011. distances. As PUMA uses different types of haulage, a breakdown by type of flight has Table 24: CO² emissions from transportation of PUMA goods clever little report 2011 P : 68 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe 2010. Transport distances increased by 2%, postponements. For 2011, the CO2 emisProduction Related Our factories are unique; they all produce because of e.g. changes to other sourcing sions increased by 5%, resp. 712 tons to Environmental Data different products, have different onsite countries with a longer transport distance 16,569 tons. The average airfreight distance Similar to 2010, the large majority of PUMA processes and are located all across the to destination ports. increased by 4% due to different sourcing production has been outsourced to indeworld. This is why in 2011 PUMA rolled out The transport mode riverfreight is not yet country activities. PUMA will continue its pendent supplier factories. At PUMA we take a new environmental data collection sysused by PUMA entities worldwide so that efforts for a further reduction of the worldour responsibility to create a more sustaintem, Enablon. The new system has greatly there are no CO 2 reporting figures to report wide airfreight volume in 2012. able world seriously and a big part of this improved the environmental data collection for 2011. The tons of CO 2 emissions per ton of translies in the creation of our products across process although it still remains a challengAirfreight is the transport mode PUMA used ported goods are indicated in the following our supply chain. It is for this reason that ing task. The data presented below reprepredominantly in case of any production table: we collect Environmental Key Performance sents the key E-KPIs from main suppliers Indicators (E-KPIs) from all of our main supacross the world for each division as colpliers and have been doing so since 2007. lected on a bi-annual basis via Enablon. T.25 Relative CO2 Emissions per ton of transported goods Ton CO2 per ton 2010 2011 Dev. Dev.% transported Roadfreight (tons) 0.059 0.064 0.005 8.5 Railfreight (tons) 0.024 0.025 0.001 4.2 Accessories/ T.26 Footwear Apparel Bags Seafreight (tons) 0.284 0.292 0.008 2.8 2011 Range Garment Range Vertical 2011 Range Riverfreight (tons) 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.0 Indicator 1 , 2 , 3 Unit 2011 2011 2011 Value 2011 2011 Airfreight (tons) 5.462 5.684 0.222 4.1 Energy / pr or pc kWh 1.50 0.8-2.8 0.6 0.29-1.86 7.95 0.5 0.19-0.66 Total (tons) 0.215 0.217 0.002 0.9 CO² / pr or pc kg 0.9 0.41-1.78 0.3 0.12-0.75 1.41 0.3 0.16-0.46 1. As a new calculation methodology and emission factors were implemented for 2011, the old figure reported in 2010 is no longer comparable. Water / pr or pc l 32 10-68.3 15 4.38-38.74 58.39 27 14-43 2. Figure for 2010 restated for comparability reasons due to new emission factors used and extended Waste / pr or pc g 176 105-364 42 14-78.16 131.39 27 15-58 scope covering two additional entities. 1. The data collection covers the following percentage of total products for each division 91% of Table 25: Relative CO² emissions per ton of transported goods total Footwear products, 65% of total Apparel Products and 56% of total Accessories products. 2. Data sets with a variance of 3 or more compared to the weighted average were excluded to improve data consistency. 3. In 2011 Vertical suppliers were separated due to their higher environmental impact. Vertical Focused on the goal of a reduction of CO 2 transport efficiency, avoid expensive and suppliers are those that have on-site processes from spinning, fabric making (including dying) to emissions by 25% until 2015 based on the carbon intensive airfreight wherever posthe final product assembly. 2010 figures, we are constantly working with sible and thus reduce the carbon footprint our logistic service providers to increase from the transportation of goods. Table 26: PUMA Supplier E-KPIs 2011 clever little report 2011 P : 69 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe In total, 56 suppliers are included in the > The new environmental data collection Footwear: (28 Garment & 2 Vertical) in 12 different above analysis compared to 34 in 2010. Supsystem, Enablon, is more understood and The environmental reporting within Footcountries in Asia, Europe and South Amerpliers were asked to participate in Enablon defined than the previous system. wear covers 18 global suppliers that proica. Vertical suppliers are those that have based on their strategic status for PUMA, duce 91% of total shipped volume ranging onsite processes from spinning, fabrictheir production volume and their location. > 46 suppliers around the world received a from sandals to sports shoes to thigh-high making (including dying) to the final prodThe increase in the supplier sample is in specialized training by the PUMA.Safe Ecolrubber boots. The rubber boot energy conuct assembly. The participating factories, line with PUMA’s priority to show a greater ogy team on E-KPI reporting. sumption (6.36 kWh/pair) was not used for which account for 78% of shipped products transparency of environmental reporting calculating the average due to the differof PUMA Apparel, have further improved within the supply chain along with other > Dedicated Sustainability Project Managence in its manufacturing set-up and shoe data collection processes and established projects such as promoting the publicaer within Sourcing to follow up and support construction compared to typical PUMA responsibilities within their own organition of supplier level sustainability reports individual factories. footwear products. In 2011 we witnessed zations. In order to ensure standardized ( > http: //safe.puma.com/us/en/2011 / 11 /2010a campaign to decentralize power control reporting, factories have received not only supplier-sustainability-reports/ ). > Introduction of a two-layered validation equipment and saw the installation of more kick-off trainings, but also intensive support This year’s environmental reporting has had process by PUMA (by Sourcing and PUMA. energy efficient lighting systems within our throughout the data collection period with some significant changes and differences in Safe). suppliers. This year also saw the monitorindividual trainings on site, Q&A sessions scope and boundary compared with 2010. It ing of production and domestic impacts and online/cc-meetings to clarify processis for the below reasons that the 2010 data > The consumption of diesel and gasoline separately and the recording of non-piped specific questions and overcome individual and the 2011 data cannot be explicitly comby own transport fleet is only used in the water sources (such as bore holes). This challenges. pared. The 2011 changes are: calculation of CO2 . As the fuel is not used helps to better identify comprehensive conThe consumption data from vertical setfor energy generation the energy contained sumption, root causes of inefficiencies and ups including final product assembly and > Consumption from dormitories has been within the fuel was excluded from the enercreate appropriate action plans in line with garment-making processes were evaluexcluded wherever segregation is possible. gy/ pair. In 2010, we could not separate gasthe 2015 targets. Waste creation, which is ated and reported separately in 2011 for In some instances this is not possible due to oline & diesel between energy generation often only estimated by waste disposal prothe first time. Vertical suppliers often have metering issues in which case dormitories and transport. The emission factors have viders, will remain a priority for monitoring additional processes on site such as dying, are included. been updated according to guidance from improvement within 2012. There will also be which therefore increases their total water our parent company, PPR. a focus on communicating best practices in consumption and makes them unsuitable > The 2011 average value has now been 2012 that highlight examples of achieving for comparison against other non-vertical weighted according to PUMA produc> A few select suppliers have changed their set reduction targets. set-ups. tion which means that the averages better operating locations and have new sites. In order to continue the reduction of E-KPIs reflect the true impact of PUMA products in Apparel: and move forward towards the PUMA susshared facilities. > Suppliers have improved onsite monitor2011 has been another milestone for Sustainability targets for 2015, the Sustaining and the collection of invoices. tainability strategies and targets among ability Factory Program has been initiated > The number of suppliers reported upon PUMA partners in the textile Supply Chain. which is comprised of step-by-step action has increased significantly from 34 to 56 > Suppliers better report according to One of the major achievements is the E-KPI plans, one-to-one kickoff meetings with between 2010 and 2011. the parameters/ boundaries of the indicadata collection for energy and water confactory management, transparent commutors (i.e., now report total waste including sumption, waste production and CO2 emisnication on target-setting and expectations, domestic rather than just fabric waste). sions with a global coverage of 30 factories onsite visits for status evaluation, follow-up clever little report 2011 P : 70 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe on project planning, information-sharing of broader implementation of best practices The sample of suppliers included in Enablon management, increased efficiency on usage best practices and case studies. As a result and benchmark projects. Also, opportuhas increased by 50% to include some of our of natural resources and alternative green some suppliers have developed their own nities towards renewable energy will be newer bag suppliers. Two suppliers are new energy solution will be continuously and sustainability missions and strategies and explored. Waste must be analyzed in detail to the reporting of their E-KPIs and two supactively pushed forward as well. As a start, have taken the first major steps towards to find customized solutions for the different pliers are now reporting on new facilities the results from this first year of E-KPIs becoming more sustainable. waste streams within local environments. due to product allocation changes. In the collection will definitely help to target and Energy efficiency projects and water-saving Overall, Apparel factories are continuously next year these suppliers will be invited to direct the development of specific projects activities have been implemented across encouraged to further develop their projoin energy efficient projects and trainings to and potential implementations. our supply chain. For example, Milteks duction processes towards environmenimprove their environmental performance External expert organizations carried out Tekstil, a key Turkish supplier who started tally friendly practices in order to become by identifying actual resource consumption capacity-building initiatives for our supplitheir own water turbine to generate renewa PUMA partner within a more sustainable opportunities within their facilities. ers in Vietnam and China our two largest able electricity for its Georgia manufactursourcing market. Furthermore, the Enablon system is now sourcing countries – that focused on energy ing facility and Impahla Clothing, located in more detailed, so their consumption is now efficiency, compliance with environmental South Africa who laid the foundation for the Accessories: more transparent. Some of the measured regulation and other resource efficiency installation of photovoltaic power generaThe 2011 Enablon campaign saw 15 factosuppliers were not able to separate the dortopics. tion which will be completed in early 2012. ries report their E-KPIs within the Accesmitory consumption from the production A dedicated and growing team at PUMA In 2012 the focus will be mainly on the sories division. These key suppliers account consumption and therefore were only able will continue to work with our suppliers on for approximately 80% of the total Accesto report at a total site level. In 2012 we are improving the accuracy of the E-KPIs and sory volume shipped. working with our suppliers to ensure that supporting them in achieving the targets set this degree of separation is possible for the out in the Sustainability Scorecard. 2011 saw more suppliers committing to next reporting cycle. PUMA’s sustainability approach by report2011 has seen the take-up of commitment ing on their E-KPIs and beginning to develto PUMA’s sustainability targets by the op a strategy to meet the associated 25% suppliers installing water curtains, solar reduction targets set out in the PUMA Suswater heaters, energy efficient machinery, tainability Scorecard. air-conditioning and lighting, wastewater As the Accessories division is responsitreatment plants, waste sorting facilities, ble for sourcing a large variety of prodmachinery for water bonding PU processes, ucts from shin guards to belts and bags, it and more. All strategic partners reported becomes challenging to compare factories their initiatives in their own GRI Sustainabilside by side or create a meaningful diviity reports and will continue to do so in 2012. sional average. It is for this reason that For 2012 we have planned to go forward and the same boundary has been applied as in dive deep into the E-KPI’s data collection 2010 – to report on our bag suppliers only, with the targets to enlarge the number of of which 56% approximately of PUMA’s total suppliers reporting their production-relatSolar power station for generating electricity on the roof of PUMA supplier factory Impahla Clothing, Accessories production is covered within ed environmental data and the improveCape Town South Africa this report. ment of the data quality. Better resource clever little report 2011 P : 71 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe Chemicals Management VOC VOC chemicals in different shoe producand Joint Roadmap towards PUMA has been monitoring the VOC index tion departments that includes cutting, sole Zero Discharge of on a monthly basis since 2002 against our preparation, stitching and final product target of 25 g/ pair. assembly. Hazardous Chemicals Our global VOC tracking system indicates As part of our PUMA.Safe Handbook for VOC data was collected from all active Tier 1 that in 2011 the VOC per pair of shoes Environmental Standards ( > http://safe. Footwear suppliers in the countries China, amounts to 37g VOC/ pair. The limitations on p u m a . c o m / u s / e n / w p c o n t e n t / u p l o a d s / 2 0 1 1Vietnam, Indonesia and Cambodia. It covachieving the set targets are partly due to 0 1H a n d b o o k _ e n v i r o n m e n t a l _ f i n a l . p d f ) , we ered 56% of all active Tier 1 Footwear supthe use of glue, which is consumed in perhave banned certain hazardous chemicals pliers. The data represented the usage of formance products. from our products for more than 10 years. These standards – laid out in our PUMA Restricted Substances List – were chalF.24 PUMA VOC DATA 2003 – 2011 lenged in 2011 by Greenpeace and their Detox Campaign, which demanded to phase out certain chemicals altogether from our Measured VOC 80,00 production processes rather than just limTarget iting their concentration in the final PUMA 70,00 product. PUMA was then the first brand worldwide 60,00 to accept the Greenpeace demands and formally commit to eliminating hazardous sub50,00 stances from our supply chain completely by 2020. For more information, please refer 40,00 to the joint industry roadmap and PUMA 2010 roadma and PUMA roadmap. ( > http://about. 30,00 2011 puma.com/wp-content/themes/aboutPUMA _theme/media/pdf/2011/pumaroadmap.pdf) . 20,00 10,00 0,00 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Figure 24: Avarage VOC consumption per pair of PUMA shoes clever little report 2011 P : 72 | C : 3 PUMA.Safe 2011 Target Assessment 3. Supplier E-KPI Figures With the movement of the data collection to a new platform, the data collection proBased on the new targets set with the publication of the cess could be streamlined and made more PUMA Sustainability Scorecard 2015, the following sophisticated. assessment can be made: The relative figures can be interpreted On the other hand, the new figures achieved in two main ways: in 2011 differ significantly from the figures > In line with our reduction targets, energy, calculated in 2010. This is particularly the waste and water consumption shows a clear case with Apparel and Accessories figures, reduction based per staff. The linkage of where for single E-KPI values a deviation of managerial financial incentive programs to over 50% was observed. sustainability performance introduced at the This is due to the fact that the number of facto1. Corporate CO2 Figures For transport-related CO2 emissions the beginning of 2011 may already show an effect ries considered for the reporting was largely Both the direct and the indirect CO 2 emislarge reduction reported compared to the in the savings reported. increased between 2010 and 2011 and more sions from PUMA entities show a clear figure reported in 2010 is caused by a change > We will further investigate this trend in detailed information was captured for 2011. reduction trend in line with our target of in the calculation method, which improves order to identify how savings were achieved We will therefore use the year 2012 to conreducing overall CO 2 emissions by 25% the precision of our CO2 reporting. On a and whether insecurities in the estimation firm or improve the methodology used for between 2010 and 2015. This trend can comparable and relative basis (emissions procedures may have led to an overstatement the data collection 2011 and to decide on partly be attributed to projects realized by per ton of transported goods), the emissions of the savings made. whether to keep the 2010 data baseline for our global entities as described in the previremained stable between 2010 and 2011. > Paper consumption did not hit the 5% our targets 2015 or rather move the baseous chapters. Another part of the reported reduction target, despite a slight decrease line year to our 2011 data. reduction is based on more specific emis2. Corporate E-KPI Figures per FTE. Considerably lower figures in the sion factors used in 2011. To better reflect Out of all total E-KPI figures reported for retail category are based on changes in the 4. Sustainable Products our efforts of saving CO 2 emissions, renewPUMA, energy (-1%), water and waste (-4%) recording of indirect paper consumption for The Apparel figure of 16% for products made able electricity purchased was counted this show a minor reduction trend, while paper catalogues, which were accounted for at from more sustainable materials shows that year with a specific emission factor of zero consumption slightly increased by 4%. office level this year, consequently resulting our Apparel division is on track for the tarand car fleet emissions were partly calcuHowever, based on PUMA’s ‘Back on the in a higher value for offices. We will need get of 50% more sustainable products until lated with specific emissions factors rather Attack’ plan to increase revenue signifito strengthen our efforts to save paper to 2015. For the next year, our challenge will than using a global average. cantly until 2015, the E-KPI targets of the balance the planned 2011 reduction in the be to achieve similar percentages for our In order to achieve further reductions going sustainability scorecard will be measured remaining years until 2015. Accessories and Footwear divisions, which forward it will be essential to move more not in absolute but in relative terms. > Overall, insecurities on data quality, have already made good progress with sites to creating or purchasing their own Relative per employee water consumpparticularly for our stores worldwide, using more sustainable materials but due to renewable energy as well as to identify and tion and waste was reduced by 8% per FTE, need to be addressed in order to ensure the complexity of the products offered need realize further energy saving potentials at while energy consumption was reduced by all savings reported are based on real more development time to realize doubleour largest sites. 10%, and paper usage by 3 percent. improvements on the ground. digit rates. clever little report 2011 PUMA.Peace clever little report 2011 FICIAL OF REP PUMA.Peace ORT chapter: ‘peace starts with me’ Films 75 One Young World 76 4 PUMA/adidas Peace Day Games 76 P : 75 | C : 4 PUMA.Peace ‘peace starts with me’ films PUMA.Peace commissioned seven inauguWorld Peace Day (September 21). They were ral ‘peace starts with me’ films that have viewed 28,182 times in 2011 on YouTube. ‘peace starts with me’ films been gifted to the world, copyright free. com and Vimeo.com since being posted on being screened at One Young World , Zurich, These films encompass a diverse range of August 19th. Millions of viewers saw the Switzerland. styles including 35mm live action, experifilms when they were broadcast on Chanmental animation and fine art. Conceived nel 4 Television (UK). The films were also › click here as 30 to 90 second films to facilitate online screened at the Bass Museum of Art (Miami, as well as live screenings, the works are USA) and the Centro de la Imagen (Santo tools for peace based on the idea that Domingo, Dominican Republic). In 2012 the ’peace starts with me.‘ They are a part of the films will be screened at the Imperial War PUMA.Peace initiative, which is an array of Museum (London, UK) and the Puerto Rico programs that foster a more peaceful world Museum of Contemporary Art (Puerto Rico) than the one we live in today. among others. The ‘peace starts with me’ films premiered 3,000 accompanying catalogs were disat the World Peace Festival (August 26-28) tributed to partnering cultural venues and in Berlin, where they were watched by PUMA offices in 11 countries on 5 contithousands of festival attendees. They went nents. 125,000 press releases were sent out on to be screened at the One Young World to filmmakers, arts magazines, cinemas, summit (September 1-4) in Zurich, where universities and international film festivals. 1,200 young world leaders and 11,200 followers either watched or heard about the films and at the PUMA offices worldwide on clever little report 2011 P : 76 | C : 4 PUMA.Peace One PUMA/adidas Young Peace Day World A PUMA/adidas Peace Day Game being played in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Games PUMA.Peace sponsored 13 delegates to The PUMA/adidas Peace Day Games are a attend One Young World , the premier globseries of sporting matches taking place on al forum on youth leadership with speakWorld Peace Day (September 21st) between ers such as Archbishop Desmond Tutu and PUMA and adidas to bridge differences and Muhammad Yunus. Attendees were selectshow the power of peace. These games have ed both internally from PUMA and exterbeen played since 2009, when PUMA and nally based on a rigorous commitment to adidas ended a six-decade-long feud with the 4Keys of being Fair, Honest, Positive and a handshake and a goodwill football game. Creative. This program continues PUMA’s The PUMA/adidas Peace Day Games 2011 commitment to fostering peace through the took place in Tokyo, Subang Jaya (Malaysia), PUMA.Peace initiative. Dubai and San Diego. clever little report 2011 PUMA.Creative clever little report 2011 FICIAL OF REP PUMA.Creative ORT chapter: PUMA.Creative Documentary Film Program 79 PUMA.Creative Awards 80 5 Creative Art Network 83 Marmo Saves Our Seas 85 HOME OCEANS 85 Volunteerism 85 Independent Assurance Report 86 P : 79 | C : 5 PUMA.Creative PUMA.Creative Documentary Film Program Approximately 1,500 filmmakers from over Expanding on PUMA’s commitment to building a more peaceful and a more 80 countries applied for a PUMA.Creative creative world, PUMA.Creative in 2010 began a long-term strategic partnership Catalyst Award or PUMA.Creative Mobility Award in 2011. with Channel 4 BRITDOC Foundation to create a series of six awards and programs. The PUMA.Creative Film Program provides financial support, creative counsel In 2011, the PUMA.Creative Film Program web and industry recognition to international documentary filmmakers whose creative pages > www.britdoc.org/puma received upwards of 60,000 individual page views, storytelling highlights social justice, peace or environmental issues. This support originating from over 120 countries, with a and recognition has been instrumental in the development and success of key direct and indirect following of over 5.5 mildocumentary films to influence public and corporate opinion. lion people on Facebook. clever little report 2011 P : 80 | C : 5 PUMA.Creative PUMA.Creative Awards PUMA.Creative Catalyst Awards no The PUMA.Creative Catalyst Award is project Filmmaker project Filmmaker an award of up to € 5,000 that provides 1 A Spell to Ward Off the Darkness Ben Russell und Ben Rivers 22 Look at My India Pramod Mathur resources to film makers in the early stages 2 African Ninja Banker White 23 Ntsika: The Pillar Alette Schoon of a documentary film and encourages the richest representation of voices by offering 3 Alliance School Paul Taylor 24 Odin's Raven Magic Nick Fenton support to global documentary filmmakers 4 Alt Orgs Sustaining the Human Patricia Murphy 25 One Meal at a Time Alessandra Populin without easy access to broadcasters and 5 Armenia Wants a Piece of the North Vardan Hovhannisyan 26 One People Documentary Project Zachary Harding and film markets. This award puts into action Pole… and the South Pole, too! Justine Henzell PUMA’s commitment to supporting films 6 Beyond The Wave Kyoko Miyake 27 Ping Pong Hugh Hartford and filmmakers with powerful, society7 Bidesia in Bambai Surabhi Sharma 28 Rollaball Eddie Edwards changing stories, whether established or 8 Black Out Eva Weber 29 Shadow Girl Maria Teresa Larrain emerging. 9 Cal Summits Luis Ilizarbe 30 Shattered Pieces of Peace Nonhlanhla Dlamini 10 Charlie PELE F. Simiyu Barasa 31 Speed Sisters Geoffrey Smith 42 PUMA.Creative Catalyst 11 Croaked Lucy Cooke 32 Taste of Revolution Philippe Gasnier Awards were granted 12 Dragonslayer Tristan Patterson 33 Teenage Matt Wolf to filmmakers 13 Femme à la Camera Perfomance Evaluation 34 The Devil's Lair Riaan Hendricks from 22 countries in 2011. 14 Haiti, Billions for a Raoul Peck 35 THE E-TEAM Katy Chevigny and Ross Refoundation Kauffman The importance of this award is demon15 Ham Without Borders Danielle Shcleif 36 The Island of Derek Walcott Ida Does strated by the success of past recipients, 16 Heralds from the Big World Tatyana Soboleva 37 The Last Song Katia Paradis such as ‘Dragonslayer’, which had its UK 17 I Ride 4 Kevin Lucy Walker 38 Untitled Haiti Olympic Team Documentary Sam Branson premiere at the BFI London Film Festival, 18 I, Afrikaner Annalet Steenkamp 39 Untitled Ramin Bahrani Gold Documentary Ramin Bahrani and ‘Ping Pong’, which has been accepted at important film festivals internationally. 19 Kasai Claude Haffner 40 We Are Many Amir Amirani 20 Laureates Kenneth Gyang 41 What's Going On? Penny Woolcock 21 Logs of War Anjali Nayar 42 White Volta Timothy Edzeani Doh 2011 PUMA.Creative Catalyst Awards clever little report 2011 P : 81 | C : 5 PUMA.Creative PUMA.Creative Catalyst Program no artist type artist type The PUMA.Creative Catalyst Program is an on-the-ground outreach and educa1 Andrew Putter Creative Africa Network (CAN) 30 Harry Owen Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) tional workshop scheme that compliments 2 Barthélémy Toguo Creative Africa Network (CAN) 31 Jean Baptiste Guyto Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) and supports the PUMA.Creative Catalyst 3 Brian Jones Creative Africa Network (CAN) 32 Jhon Narvaez Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) Awards. This year, PUMA.Creative, in part4 EL Loko Creative Africa Network (CAN) 33 Leah Gordon Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) nership with Channel 4 BRITDOC Foundation, held workshops at the Durban Interna5 Ernest Duku Creative Africa Network (CAN) 34 Michael Mooleedhar Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) tional Film Festival in Durban, South Africa, 6 Godried Donkor Creative Africa Network (CAN) 35 Nile Saulter Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) with local and international documentary 7 Hasan Essop Creative Africa Network (CAN) 36 Noemi Cruz Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) filmmakers, counseling them on the pro8 Hentie van der Merwe Creative Africa Network (CAN) 37 Patricia Mohammed Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) cesses of film funding, production and dis9 Husain Essop Creative Africa Network (CAN) 38 Pim La Parra Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) tribution. 10 Mamela Njamza Creative Africa Network (CAN) 39 Rozanne Vereen Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) PUMA.Creative Mobility Awards 11 Martin Schonberg Creative Africa Network (CAN) 40 Sara Hermann Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) The PUMA.Creative Mobility Award enables 12 Musa Hlatshwayo Creative Africa Network (CAN) 41 Sarah Manley Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) artists, photographers, dancers, filmmak13 Ntombi Gasa Creative Africa Network (CAN) 42 Stefanie Lopez Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) ers, writers and art professionals to travel 14 Owanto (Yvette Berger) Creative Africa Network (CAN) 43 Thomas Noreille Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) internationally for the purposes of doing 15 Saïdou Dicko Creative Africa Network (CAN) 44 Alison Klayman PUMA.Creative Film Programme research, starting or completing a project or 16 Strijdom van der Merwe Creative Africa Network (CAN) 45 Annalet Steenkamp PUMA.Creative Film Programme participating in an event crucial to their field 17 Bill Porter Creative Art Network 46 Felix Wakibia PUMA.Creative Film Programme or project. PUMA supports the travel of creative individuals because our most press18 Kayleigh Gibbons Creative Art Network 47 Howard Gertler PUMA.Creative Film Programme ing environmental and social issues require 19 Max Hattler Creative Art Network 48 James Smith-Rewse PUMA.Creative Film Programme creative global solutions that are facilitated 20 Noriko Okaku Creative Art Network 49 John Baker PUMA.Creative Film Programme by intercultural exchange and action. 21 Sara Loeve Dadadottir Creative Art Network 50 Joshua Sandoval PUMA.Creative Film Programme 22 Tom Gran Creative Art Network 51 Lauren Groenewald PUMA.Creative Film Programme 57 PUMA.Creative Mobility Awards were 23 Brooke Minto Creative Art Network 52 Leah Mahan PUMA.Creative Film Programme distributed through the PUMA.Creative Film Program, Creative Africa Network and Cre24 Alexander Farquharson Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) 53 Nonhlanhla Dlamini PUMA.Creative Film Programme ative Caribbean Network. 25 Alfredo Pacheco Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) 54 Peggy Mbiyu PUMA.Creative Film Programme 26 André Eugène Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) 55 Sakhile Dlamini PUMA.Creative Film Programme A PUMA.Creative Mobility Award allowed 27 Francesca Hawkins Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) 56 Tristan Patterson PUMA.Creative Film Programme Alison Klayman to travel to Beijing in Sep28 Gareth Cobran Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) 57 William Anderson PUMA.Creative Film Programme tember 2011 to film and investigate the 29 Gregory McPhail Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) 2011 PUMA.Creative Mobility Awards clever little report 2011 P : 82 | C : 5 PUMA.Creative political controversy around international change requires action. By recognizing the art star Ai Weiwei, resulting in the film `Ai documentary film that has made the most Weiwei: Never Sorry´. Haitian visual artimpact, PUMA can further propel a film that ist André Eugène used his PUMA.Creative is already making a difference to have a Mobility Award to represent his country at larger positive effect on our society. the 2011 Venice Biennale. This was Haiti’s The very best news and media outlets first national pavilion at the Venice Biennale, reported on the event including the BBC, which is the world’s premiere contemporary Current TV, The Telegraph, Variety Magaart event, and PUMA.Creative is proud to zine, CNBC, Creative Front, Huffington Post, have also supported Haiti’s presence there. Fox Network, ID magazine online, Screen International and others. High-level press PUMA.Creative Impact Awards coverage has allowed the impact of the The PUMA.Creative Impact Award is a new award to be further amplified, reaching annual award that identifies and honors the a larger, global audience—spreading the documentary film that has made the most message of both the PUMA.Creative Impact significant and positive social or environAward and the important environmental mental impact. This €50,000 award is the message of ‘The End of the Line.’ first of its kind in the world and was presentA Special Jury Commendation was also ed to ‘The End of the Line’ on October 11th, presented to ‘Burma VJ: Reporting from 2011 at a gala hosted by news anchor Jon a Closed Country’ for its social impact. As Snow at the Mandarin Oriental in London. part of the commendation, a €25,000 prize At the PUMA.Creative Impact Awards , The winning film was decided upon by the was awarded to the filmmaker and producfrom left to right, Djimon Hounsou, Kimora Lee Simmons Hounsou, 2011 PUMA.Creative Impact Award Jury, er. ‘Burma VJ’ follows a group of fearless Rupert Murray, Claire Lewis, Jochen Zeitz, Her Majesty Queen Noor of which was led by Her Majesty Queen Noor reporters during the 2007 Burmese uprisJordan, George Duffield, Christopher Hird and Charles Clover. of Jordan, and included Morgan Spurlock ings and the ensuing police crack-down. (Academy Award-nominated Director of ‘Super Size Me’), Orlando Bagwell (DirecPUMA.Creative tor of the JustFilms initiative at the Ford Ambassador Award Foundation), Loretta Minghella OBE and The PUMA.Creative Ambassadors are advoEmmanuel Jal (musician and activist). The cates and experts representing the worlds three-dimensional award was designed and of film, the arts, academia, social change produced by New World School of the Arts and journalism. Individuals who have be(NWSA) students through a PUMA.Creative come internationally recognized for their professionalization program. contributions in their fields, Isaac Julien, At PUMA we believe that we have a responNandipha Mntambo and Penny Siopus, who sibility and opportunity to contribute to a joined us in 2011, are asked to represent our better world and a better future, yet positive cutting-edge initiatives. clever little report 2011 P : 83 | C : 5 PUMA.Creative Creative Art Network The Creative Art Network is both a live and a virtual platform with global reach, con9 of the African National football team players with their corresponding necting the creative world within and outCreative Africa Network artist. side the continents or regions of Africa, the Caribbean and South America giving visibility to the talents working in architecture, dance, design, fashion, film, fine art, literature, music, new media, performing arts and photography. PUMA initiated the Creative Art Network and it continues our conviction that immense creative talent exists throughout the world and has the power to make the world a safer, more peaceful and more creative place. We are excited to help facilitate this. Both the Creative Africa Network (CAN) and Creative Caribbean Network (CCN) have fast established themselves as the primary go to place for cultural information in their regions, with 3,260 artists as contributing members on the Creative Africa Network and 1,209 artists as contributing members on the Creative Caribbean Network. The Creative South America Network (CSAN) is now live with membership and content development in process and will formally launch in the first quarter of 2012. clever little report 2011 P : 84 | C : 5 PUMA.Creative The Creative Asia Network is beginning in the talent of the ten Creative Africa NetAfrican National development and will roll out in the third work (CAN) artists. David A. Bailey, a writer football team jerseys quarter of 2012. and curator on African diaspora art, moderon display at the Design 4 PUMA.Creative Mobility Awards were proated this discussion, which engaged issues Museum, London, vided to foremost film directors and scholof identity and language as well as the expewith Samba Fall’s Senegalese Kit in ars, via the Creative Caribbean Network rience of designing PUMA’s ten partnered the forefront. (CCN), to present and discuss their work African National football team kits. The disat the Caribbean Studies Association 36th cussion was recorded and will be available Annual Conference in Curacao. This annual in digital format to the public. conference is the Caribbean’s leading forum for the study of the region. On November 7th, PUMA revealed the 2012 technical football kits for PUMA’s ten partnered African National football teams. The kits were designed by ten Creative Africa Network (CAN) artists from their corresponding nations, using inspiration from the visual and cultural motifs of their country to develop the jerseys. This collaboration was accompanied by the month-long exhibition, ‘Interpretations of Africa: Football, Art and Design’ at the Design Museum in London, which showcased the artists’ design process to 9,856 visitors. Press coverage included BBC, Sky Sports, The Guardian, The Independent, Mail Online and many others. PUMA.Creative, in partnership with the Institute of International Visual Arts (Iniva), presented a panel discussion at the Design Museum, London on November 8th with the artists participating in the ‘Interpretations of Africa: Football, Art and Design’ exhibition. PUMA’s partnership with Iniva on this event, an organization dedicated to providNAMIBIA SOUTH AFRICA CAMEROON ing a platform for a diverse range of voices designed by designed by designed by to contribute to and be heard in the visual van der Merwe Hasan and Husain Essop Barthélémy Toguo arts, was an excellent fit with PUMA’s belief clever little report 2011 P : 85 | C : 5 PUMA.Creative HOME OCEANS A new cut of the film HOME by Yann Arthus what they can do about it. ‘HOME OCEANS’ Bertrand entitled ‘HOME OCEANS’ was creascreened at the South African Museum and ted for the Volvo Ocean Race and is available the V&A Waterfront Amphitheatre, both in in seven languages for use by all port cities Cape Town, South Africa, and concurrent and by regional marketing teams. Like the to the Volvo Ocean Race’s stop in the city. ‘Marmo Saves Our Seas’ children’s book but Approximately 1400 museum visitors and reaching an adult audience, ‘HOME OCEANS’ the majority of the 1,828,600 visitors that is a tool used to educate the public about pass through V&A Waterfront each month the oceans, the challenges they face and were exposed to this film. Marmo Saves Our Seas ‘Marmo Saves Our Seas’ being read to local school children in Cape Town, South Africa Volunteerism This year PUMA.Creative published ‘Marmo Saves Our Seas’, a children’s book that uses the platform of the Volvo Ocean Race to educate youth about ocean Demonstrating PUMA’s belief in volunteeNetwork and PUMA.Creative’s partnering preservation. Available in seven languages, it debuted in Alicante, Spain. ‘Marrism, PUMAVision director Mark Coetzee institution, The Bass Museum of Art (Miamo Saves Our Seas’ expands PUMA’s continued efforts to educate the public spent his vacation mentoring New World mi, USA). The three-dimensional award for about the importance of marine issues, habitats and sea creatures. This project School of the Arts (NWSA) students in Berthe 2011 PUMA.Creative Impact Award was was used by the regional marketing team in Cape Town, South Africa in events at lin, Germany. NWSA is a public University designed and produced by NWSA students the Two Oceans Aquarium and the V&A Waterfront where children heard about in Miami, USA that PUMA.Creative partners through this professionalization program, Marmo and learned about ocean preservation. with in running a design professionalization which prepares students for a successful program for local students, and which regucareer as future designers while providing larly engages with the Creative Caribbean PUMA with innovative design solutions. clever little report 2011 P : 86 | C : 5 PUMAVision PUMA.Safe PUMA.Peace PUMA.Creative INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT To PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach > Materiality, ting and maintaining systems and processes ment. We have been engaged to perform a limi> Stakeholder Inclusiveness, relevant for the preparation of the chapters We conducted our work in accordance with ted assurance engagement on corporate > Sustainability Context, ‘PUMAVision‘, ‘PUMA.Safe‘, ‘PUMA.Peace‘ the International Standard on Assurance responsibility (CR) information presented > Completeness, and ‘PUMA.Creative‘ of the Annual Report. Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This standard in the chapters ‘PUMAVision‘, ‘PUMA.Safe‘, > Balance, requires that we comply with ethical requi‘PUMA.Peace‘ and ‘PUMA.Creative‘ of the > Clarity, Practitioner‘s Responsibility rements and plan and perform the assuannual report 2011 of PUMA SE, Herzogen> Accuracy, Our responsibility is to express a conclusion rance engagement, under consideration of aurach, for the financial year 2011 (the „An> Timeliness, based on our work performed as to whether materiality, to express our conclusion with nual Report“). > Comparability and any matters have come to our attention that limited assurance. > Reliability. cause us to believe that the CR informatiIn a limited assurance engagement the eviManagement‘s Responsibility on for the financial year 2011 presented in dencegathering procedures are more limiThe management board of PUMA SE is resThis responsibility includes the selection the above mentioned chapters of the Annual ted than for a reasonable assurance engaponsible for the preparation of the chapters and application of appropriate methods to Report have not been prepared, in all mategement (for example, an audit of financial ‘PUMAVision‘, ‘PUMA.Safe‘, ‘PUMA.Peace‘ prepare the chapters ‘PUMAVision‘, ‘PUMA. rial respects, in accordance with the above statements in accordance with section 317 and ‘PUMA.Creative‘ of the Annual Report Safe‘, ‘PUMA.Peace‘ and ‘PUMA.Creative‘ of mentioned criteria of the Sustainability ReHGB (Handelsgesetzbuch: German Comin accordance with the criteria stated in the the Annual Report and the use of assumpporting Guidelines Vol. 3 of the GRI. We also mercial Code)), and therefore less assuSustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 tions and estimates for individual sustainahave been engaged to make recommendarance is obtained than in a reasonable as(pp. 7-17) of the Global Reporting Initiative bility disclosures which are reasonable in tions for the further development of the CR surance engagement. (GRI): the circumstances. Furthermore, the resmanagement and reporting based on the ponsibility includes designing, implemenresults of our limited assurance engageclever little report 2011 P : 87 | C : 5 PUMAVision PUMA.Safe PUMA.Peace PUMA.Creative The procedures selected depend on the tion on a sample basis, among others by the practitioner‘s judgement. Within the scope inspection of internal documents, contracts, of our work we performed among others the reports of external service providers and following procedures: invoices as well as by the analysis of reports generated from IT systems; > Inspection of documents regarding the CR strategy, the CR program, the CR Conclusion management and stakeholder dialog; Based on our limited assurance engage> Participation in the annual stakeholder ment nothing has come to our attention that dialog in Banz, November 21 to 23, 2011; causes us to believe that the CR informa> Inquiries of personnel located in the cention presented in the chapters ‘PUMAVisitral functions responsible for the preparaon‘, ‘PUMA.Safe‘, ‘PUMA.Peace‘ and ‘PUMA. tion of the chapters ‘PUMAVision‘, ‘PUMA. Creative‘ of the annual report 2011 of PUMA Safe‘, ‘PUMA.Peace‘ and ‘PUMA.Creative‘ SE, Herzogenaurach, for the financial year regarding the processes used to gather 2011 has not been prepared, in all material and consolidate CR information and related respects, in accordance with the criteria of control procedures; the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. > Inspection of the documentation of sys3 (pp. 7-17) of the GRI. tems and processes used for gathering, analysing and aggregating CR data as well as retracing on a sample basis; Emphasis of Matter – > Site visit as part of the inspection of proRecommendations cesses used for gathering, analysing and Without qualifying our conclusion, we make aggregating CR data: the following recommendations for the > in the corporate headquarters further development of CR management as well as and CR reporting: > PUMA North America Inc. in Westford, MA (U.S.A.); > Further implementation of corporate > Telephone inquiries with personnel locapolicies and procedures regarding the data Frankfurt am Main, March 22, 2012 ted in UK, Japan, Canada and Russia rescollection and validation procedures as well ponsible for the collection (‘National Eco as documentation requirements to further PricewaterhouseCoopers Champions‘) and validation (‘Validator 1‘) improve data quality; of environmental data regarding gathering, > Further implementation of standardized Aktiengesellschaft analyzing and aggregating selected enviprocedures to allow timely data gathering Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft ronmental indicators for UK, Japan, Canada and validation (‘fast close procedures‘). and Russia; Michael Werner ppa.Heinke Richter > Substantive testing on selected informaclever little report 2011 P : 88 | C : 6 Brand FICIAL OF REP brand ORT chapter: Brand Strategy 90 Teamsport 91 6 Running 94 Motorsport 96 Golf 98 Sailing 100 Fitness 102 Lifestyle 104 P : 90 | C : 6 Brand Brand Strategy PUMA takes its inspiration from the worlds strategy by increasing the differentiation Within Lifestyle we continue to sharpen our marketing strategy to re-connect with our of Sport and Lifestyle. We breathe life into between our Performance and Lifestyle lifestyle products through disruptive design consumers. sports, we bring sports to life, and we crecategories through more distinct product innovation that is influenced by sports, culate a sport fashion fusion that inspires and and marketing initiatives creating consumer ture and fashion. We take the inspiration We develop ‘PUMA 2.0.’ delights. No sports without the influence demand through uniqueness and innovation. from some of the most reputable fashion We focus on finding opportunities for true from Lifestyle and no Lifestyle without the Our Performance proposition features designers in the world such as Hussein engagement beyond the traditional media influence from sports. thrilling athletes, electrifying teams and Chalayan, Alexander McQueen and Mihara channels. We want to leverage the power of exciting technical innovations while our Yasuhiro. new media in the digital and mobile space, We sharpen our unique vision of Lifestyle is driven by cultural relWith our sustainability initiatives we want to connecting in more efficient and measurpositioning in Performance evance, urban style leadership and cuttingwork towards a better world and reduce our able ways. With a strong and growing Faceand Lifestyle. edge design innovation. footprint on the planet through design and book fan base of more than 6 million, we We will remain the joyful Sportlifestyle brand Performance is about athletes, engineerprocess innovation. belong to the most active brands on that that mixes the influences from both worlds ing and technology. We strengthened and platform globally. of Sports and Lifestyle. At the same time expanded our sports asset portfolio to We want to revolutionize we continue to sharpen our positioning on increase PUMA’s credibility as a Perforour industry. both ends – Performance and Lifestyle – to mance brand through signing top athletes We want to think outside the box, so that be more competitive in an increasingly and teams in the last year. Besides that we someday we will sell products that either differentiated marketplace. continue to invest into the development of can decompose harmlessly into nature or On our path to becoming the most desirable new technologies that allow your body to can be recycled after their product life. and sustainable Sportlifestyle company in perform better. Engagement, Efficiency and Relevance have the world, we saw the need to refocus our become the watch words in our re-focused We like! clever little report 2011 P : 91 | C : 6 Brand Teamsport ‚Bafana Bafana‘ has ambitious plans for the future with PUMA as a strong partner at their side. clever little report 2011 P : 92 | C : 6 Brand What do Sergio ‘Kun’ Agüero of Manchester City, Radamel Falcao of Atlético Madrid, Cesc Fàbregas of FC Barcelona and Manchester City midfielder Yaya Touré have in common? Apart from being star footballers, they all joined the PUMA family in 2011. The strengthening of our asset portfolio in eroon, Algeria, Senegal, Togo, Burkina Faso, Sport Performance has been an essential Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, Malawi, Namibia factor in building PUMA’s brand desirability. and now South Africa underlines our strong The PUMA newcomers who will feature as commitment to the African continent and central figures in PUMA’s global marketAfrican football. ing programs in the coming years join a host of international PUMA assets including „My new partnership with star players such as Nemanja Vidic, Samuel PUMA is another step towards Eto’o and Mario Gomez as well as Marco achieving my dreams.“ Reus and Phil Jones – two of the hottest talSergio ‘Kun’ Agüero ents of German and English football. In Germany one of our most important football markets PUMA signed a new partnership contract with top Bundesliga team Borussia Dortmund, champions of the 2010/2011 season. Like PUMA, Borussia Dortmund perfectly embodies the mix of sport and lifestyle emphasizing our brand values of joy, enthusiasm and passion, which makes this partnership a perfect match. Starting next July, this new partnership enables PUMA to continue developing innovative football product, merchandising and marketing concepts. And this is not just about football. This And we did not leave it at that. We further is also about African art. For ten of these expanded our strong portfolio of already 11 teams, we fused sports and art by havThis man not only dresses well – African football teams by another one, signing renowned artists from the respective Phil Jones is one of the greatest ing the South African Football Association countries design the national football kits of talents of English football. beyond the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Endorstheir teams. The kits were unveiled at a staring the teams of Ghana, Ivory Coast, Camstudded event at the Design Museum > clever little report 2011 P : 93 | C : 6 Brand 1 2 3 DESIGN INNOVATION BY design, our PUMA football boots perfectly 1. Cesc Fàbregas relies on his PUMA Power Cat meet the requirements of our world-class CELEBRATING AFRICAN CULTURE players. We are set to introduce the new when controlling the FC Barcelona midfield. blue colorway of our v1.11 football boot, 2. The PUMA v1.11 in London in November, which was complewhich is worn by PUMA speed players boots perfectly support Falcao‘s fast sprints mented by a month-long exhibition showincluding Sergio Agüero, Samuel Eto’o, Yaya and dribblings. casing the artists’ design inspirations. In Touré, Radamel Falcao and Steven Pienaar. 3. When wearing the run up to the 2012 Orange Africa Cup Continuing with the PUMA Speed theme, PUMA‘s Ivory Coast kit, Yaya Touré switches of Nations, the event was the perfect platthe v1.11 boot incorporates premium lightto attacking. form for PUMA to demonstrate the brand’s weight technologies that enable all kinds of design innovation by celebrating African movements while supporting the player’s culture. speed to the maximum. Our new PowerCat And of course, we once again proved last 1.12 football boot will be sported by Cesc year that our proposition as a Sport PerforFàbregas, Nemanja Vidic and Gianluigi Bufmance company features highly competitive fon and features the new PUMA 3D DUO technical innovation. Pushing the boundaPower Shooting Technology, applied to the ries of product performance and innovative inside of the boot. < clever little report 2011 P : 94 | C : 6 Brand Running Will he do it again? During the London 2012 Olympic Games the world will hold its breath and be watching PUMA brand ambassador and the world‘s fastest man Usain Bolt to see if he can push the boundaries of his sport with new world records again. PUMA, like many Bolt enthusiasts, believes the best is yet to come… > Fully concentrating on the Olympics: Even Usain Bolt needs a breather once in a while. clever little report 2011 P : 95 | C : 6 Brand PUMA AND encouraged product trial for the Faas collection and continued to drive brand visibility CEDELLA MARLEY in these markets. The winners from each TEAM UP FOR THE event attended a finale in Daegu where a OLYMPICS 2012 final Faas competition was hosted and the market winners met with Usain Bolt. At the World Championships in Korea our athletes once again stole the show. Spear1 headed by Bolt, Jamaica proved again to 2 be the fastest country in the world with victories in the men’s 100, 200 and 4 x 100 meters relay as well as the women’s 200 meters, finishing 4th world’s best Building momentum towards London 2012, country overall on the medal we were striding our way through 2011 with table and placing table across a fun, innovative and technologically advanall the events. Other teams ced range of running shoes – the PUMA outfitted by PUMA were GreFaas Collection. Grounded in performance nada, Uganda, Norway, Sweand featuring our exclusive biomechanical den, Denmark, Czech Repub3 design technology BioRide™, the Faas footlic and Botswana. wear range provides a naturally responsive And this was just a taste of what is to come in ride and thus helps runners get into their London 2012. With Cedella Marley, fashion own rhythm for increased speed and perdesigner and daughter of Jamaican reggae 1. Usain Bolt in Daegu. formance. icon Bob Marley designing the Jamaican 2. Training for Olympia: Usain Bolt is We wanted our consumers to see for themTrack and Field team’s Olympic, podium and looking forward to selves what Faas is like! Using the PUMA ceremony wear, PUMA will bring its unique sprinting in London. Speed Trap – an activation program around fusion of joy and performance to the Games 3. The perfect Jamaican fit: Cedella Bolt’s Diamond League appearances in while Usain Bolt and the Jamaican Track & Marley designs PUMA‘s Prague, Paris and Rome as well as in six Field team are set to once again redefine Olympics collection countries in the Asian/Pacific region – we their sport… < for the Jamaican team. clever little report 2011 P : 96 | C : 6 Brand Motorsport The path to success continues: PUMA and Ferrari extended their long-term partnership in 2011. clever little report 2011 P : 97 | C : 6 Brand We are the sportlifestyle brand DUCATI with the longest heritage in motorsport The PUMA Motorsport category has again Two more drivers in PUMA race wear are desgeared up! In 2011, we announced our new tined for great things in the seasons to come: partnership with the MERCEDES AMG PETMichael Schumacher and Nico Rosberg of RONAS F1-Team and extended our existing the MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS F1-Team, agreement with Ferrari, reaffirming our which is the continuation of Mercedesposition as the Sportlifestyle brand with the Benz’s rich heritage in Motorsport. Since longest heritage in Motorsport. January 2012, PUMA has been the official team partner and exclusive licensing partSCHUMACHER SPORTS PUMA ner for footwear, apparel and accessories. And on the two wheels we are not lagging The partnership with Ferrari has become behind either! The Ducati MotoGP Team – FERRARI one of the most commercially valuable our most important 2-wheel partnership licensing relationships for both PUMA and – entered the 2011 season with nine-time Ferrari. We will continue to supply ScuWorld Champion Valentino Rossi and with deria Ferrari, which finished third in the Nicky Hayden, one of the most popular riders Constructors‘ Championships of the 2011 of the series. Despite changes in MotoGP’s season, with the latest technological innoengine rules, Ducati has consistently proven vations in team and race wear. This enaitself and placed third in last season’s Team bles Fernando Alonso and Felipe Massa to and Constructors‘ Championships. We concompete in one of the lightest and safest tinue to provide our latest innovations of race suits in Formula One. The Kraftek SF fireproof racewear for the team’s drivers is our new and revolutionary Motorsport and all technical pit personnel. We are keen PUMA KRAFTEK SF SCUDERIA FERRARI performance shoe and is regarded to be the to capitalize on the Ducati exposure with our The PUMA Kraftek SF meets the A must for every Ferrari aficionado: requirements of passionate race drivers. the team shirt of Scuderia Ferrari. epitome of minimalism and functionality of younger consumers throughout this year’s footwear for the race professional. racing season. < clever little report 2011 P : 98 | C : 6 Brand GOLF By integrating Cobra Golf into the group, we have become a credible player in the Golf industry with a 360 degree product offering of footwear, apparel and accessories. clever little report 2011 P : 99 | C : 6 Brand Our string of success Nationwide Tour player, Jonas Blixt, finished 5th on the money list earning him his 2012 on international courses PGA Tour Card, Ian Poulter won the Volvo continues! Match Play Championship, Anna Nordqvist played on the winning European team of the Solheim Cup and Rickie Fowler earned his first professional win in the Kolon Korea Open. We don‘t mind continuing like this! ENJOY THE GAME 2011 marked the first time COBRA released 1. Sixteen-year old Lexi Thompson is a series of products under COBRA PUMA the youngest player GOLF and with our game enjoyment posiwho has ever won tioning. New product launches included the an LPGA or PGA Tour tournament Trusty Rusty wedge, the only wedge that 1 3 2. We are setting trends rusts for superior feel, control and spin, 2 4 in Women‘s golf wear and the ZL Encore Driver played by Ian 3. PUMA brings color Poulter which is the first driver in the maronto international golf courses ket offered in two cosmetics. Based on the 4. Rickie Fowler immense amount of positive feedback from claimed his first title media, key accounts and consumers, 2012 as a golf professional when he won the is set up to be another big year for COBRA Kolon Korea Open PUMA GOLF continuing to boost our mark in the game. TRENDY ACCESSORIES COBRA PUMA GOLF entered into a licensee agreement with premier accessories She’s in! Supported by our ‘Let Lexi Play’ design and development company The campaign online and on Twitter, PUMA Golf Wheat Group to launch custom assembly. phenomenon Lexi Thompson earned her The Wheat Group has designed a new colLPGA Tour Card for next season. And this is lection of accessories for both COBRA and just one of many exciting news and achievePUMA Golf including performance gloves, ments in our growing and successful Golf headwear, umbrellas, belts, staff bags, cart category 2011. bags and other small accessories. < clever little report 2011 P : 100 | C : 6 Brand With its sailing yacht Mar Mostro PUMA is fighting for the winning title of the Volvo Ocean Race. sailing clever little report 2011 P : 101 | C : 6 Brand The Monster is loose … 1 on the world’s most treacherous seas! PUMA’s Monster of the Sea, our sailing yacht PUMA Quad, a unique retail and entertainMar Mostro, has set out to compete against ment structure set up in each stopover race five other teams in the Volvo Ocean Race village. In keeping with PUMA’s sustainabil2011-2012. After the success of finishing the ity goals, a majority of the Volvo Ocean Race last Volvo Ocean Race second, skipper Ken merchandise, PUMA Ocean Racing fan wear, 2 Read embarked with the PUMA Ocean Racand PUMA Ocean Outerwear collection is ing Team powered by BERG once more on 3 comprised of environmentally responsible 1. Life on board: the 39,000 nautical mile journey in Novemproducts made from 100% organic cotton, The PUMA Ocean Racing Team ber. The race will take them from Alicante to 2. PUMA‘s high performance sailing 100% recycled polyester, developed with an Cape Town, Abu Dhabi, Sanya (China), Auckcollection helps the crew to endure environmentally-friendly, safe and healthy land, Itajaí (Brazil), Miami, Lisbon, Lorient the harshest conditions on sea. process. 3. Skipper Ken Read and his (France) to finally cross the finish line in team are braving cold winds and In August we further expanded our sailing Galway (Ireland) in July 2012. wet-weather conditions. category with the announcement of two The Volvo Ocean Race is an exceptional test new partnerships. PUMA was introduced of sailing prowess and human endeavor as the official sportswear partner for the widely known as the ‘Everest of Sailing.’ To America’s Cup Event Authority, and as the meet the challenging requirements at sea, official sportswear and technical supplier PUMA’s sailing performance collections for ORACLE Racing, defender of the 34th have been evolved and feature exceptionAmerica’s Cup. PUMA is operating both ally rugged and durable garments. The prothe official online and pop-up fan shops in ducts are tested in the field, proving to be ports hosting the 34th America’s Cup races, breathable, windproof and waterproof, and offering fan wear collections as part of both are the optimum solution for life out there. partnerships. The tees, polos and hooded PUMA is also the official supplier of Volvo jackets are made with sustainable materiOcean Race merchandise – available in the als and processes. < clever little report 2011 P : 102 | C : 6 Brand Fitness Join in the pack and stand out! clever little report 2011 P : 103 | C : 6 Brand Women‘s Fitness shines in 2011 PUMA’s Women’s Fitness category grew significantly in 2011, proving that our renewed focus on the female consumer is beginning to pay off. We continued to make strong headway into this category through the evolution and launch of our fitness shoes BodyTrain and TrainLite XT that re-invigorate our consumers’ everyday training session with their lightweight tech capabilities. TRAIN YOUR BODY BodyTrain, ideal for exercises like walking, had notable success around the globe, particularly in the Japanese market where PUMA sponsors the Miss Universe Japan competition and candidates are filmed showing off their trained legs. TrainLite XT, ideal for in the gym and cross-training exercises, piggybacked off of the success of its sister shoe BodyTrain. In the upcoming season, our Women’s Fitness Collection is geared for more social 01 Fitness Lux 02 TrainLite XT 03 TP Cover Up sport with designs that help our consumers Workout Bag ... intensifies the training ... is your perfect partner join in the pack and stand out at the same ... brings style into the gym. session by compression for the warm-up or time. From bold colors to crafty cut lines to technology in the sole. cool-down, furnished with amped up technologies our styles are made a uv-resistant finish. to boost confidence and turn heads. Now ladies, get your trainers on! < clever little report 2011 P : 104 | C : 6 Brand Our vision of Lifestyle is driven by cultural relevance, urban style leadership and cutting-edge design innovation. Lifestyle clever little report 2011 P : 105 | C : 6 Brand FICIAL OF Celebrating the most classic styles and icons, the PUMA Clyde. Once customized for basketball great After Hours Athlete ‘ Clyde’ Frazier in 1973, the Clyde has been part of the uniform for cultural artists – DJs, b-boys, musicians and graffiti artists – and continues to be on-trend today! The global Every professional athlete wears a uniform. re-launch of the PUMA Clyde generated a TE AMMAT ES So what about the amateur athlete? The king significant sell-out globally paving the way of foosball? The reigning champion of darts? for increased desirability with opinion leadOr any other game that can be played with ing consumers. a drink in hand? PUMA celebrates the after Another classic that we successfully rehours athlete! invented was our iconic ROMA LUX shoe that Our PUMA Social collection we re-launched in cooperation with College once again symbolises how inspired clothing brand Franklin & Marshall. PUMA fuses Sport with LifeThis collaboration combines the heritage style into everyday life. Crestyle of PUMA’s ROMA LUX with the laid back ating a new Sportlifestyle Italian spirit of Franklin & Marshall. First movement with a full range of introduced in 1960 and later re-launched apparel, footwear and accesas a tribute to the Italian Football team, the sories we continued the fun Roma shoe has been at the heart of PUMA’s and irreverent ‘PUMA Social’ footwear collection ever since. The shoe campaign throughout 2011: encompasses PUMA’s Sportlifestyle ethos From Berlin and London to by being the first ‘ all round’ training shoe Shanghai and Tokyo, PUMA within the marketplace on its initial launch. Social Clubs popped up across The shoe subsequently gained its status as the world. And with our Life an iconic style in recent years. Scoreboard, an online and For our little consumers we made childhood mobile application designed dreams come true: The PUMA DJ shoe comto keep a running tally on anything and evebines our latest technology with inspiration rything, we demonstrated life is more fun from old school hip hop. Walking, running, when you are keeping score. jumping and dancing activate the senHowever, we did not leave it at that. 2011 sors and trigger sounds heard through the PUMA Social is the perfect platform to communicate PUMA‘s JOY saw PUMA continuing our successful partspeaker in the tongue of the sneaker. And positioning online and offline to our nership with the legendary US culture store when the little dancing feet are tired, the customers and consumers. Undefeated – a collaboration about pushing shoes get recharged by connecting it to a boundaries and refreshing one of PUMA’s computer. Now that’s fun! < clever little report 2011 P : 106 | C : 61 To our Shareholders PUMAVision PUMA.Safe PUMA.Peace PUMA.Creative Brand Management Report Financial Statements SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT BOARD OF MANAGEMENT FICIAL OF REP management report ORT 2011 Overview 108 Corporate Governance Report / Statement on Corporate Governance Pursuant to Section chapter: General Economic Situation 109 289A HGB 132 Strategy 110 Compensation Report on the Board of Management 7 and the Supervisory Board (until July 24, 2011) Business Development 112 and for the Managing Directors and the Administrative Board (from July 25, 2011) 136 Value Management 125 Risk Management 138 Product Development and Design 127 Disclosures Pursuant to Section 315(4) of the Procurement 128 German Commercial Code (HGB) 142 Employees 130 Outlook 143 P : 108 | C : 7 Management Report 2011 Overview PUMA is “Back on the Attack”! During the past financial year, in line with its “Back on the Attack” growth plan, PUMA exceeded € 3 billion in sales and significantly improved profitability. Moreover, the conversion to a European Company (SE) has strengthened PUMA’s international focus and enabled it to press ahead with the strategic development of the Group. One of PUMA’s sporting highlights in 2011 cy-adjusted sales rising by 12.1% and sales at € 15.36, compared with € 13.45 the previwas the IAAF World Athletics Championin Euros, the reporting currency, increasous year. ships in South Korea, where the Jamaican ing by 11.2% to over € 3.0 billion. We have team and PUMA superstar Usain Bolt turned therefore not only achieved, and in some PUMA continued to press ahead with its in an impressive performance. In socrespects exceeded our targets for the growth strategy in 2011, including the reincer, the PUMA sponsored Uruguayan team financial year 2011, but are also on track to forcement of its market position in China effortlessly won its 15th South American reach our long-term sales potential of € 4.0 through the acquisition of the remaining Continental Championship (Copa América) billion in 2015. Thanks to PUMA’s continuoutstanding shares of its Chinese subsidtitle. PUMA also broke new ground in 2011 ous efforts over the past year to increase iary on January 1, 2011. By setting up and by publishing the world’s first environmenoperating efficiency, gross profit margin acquiring new subsidiaries, PUMA also tal income statement, once again demonremained virtually unchanged from the expanded its sales organization in the North strating PUMA’s cutting edge in sustainable previous year at 49.6%, despite higher proAmerican market. management. curement prices. At year-end PUMA’s share price stood at PUMA managed to increase worldwide Operating income (EBIT) increased sharply € 225.00 (9.3% below the prior-year price), currency-adjusted brand sales by 11.8% from € 306.8 million the previous year to representing a market capitalization of to nearly € 3.2 billion in the financial year € 333.2 million in 2011 (an increase of 8.6%). around € 3.4 billion. 2011. At the same time, consolidated sales At Group level, net earnings jumped 13.8% enjoyed double-digit growth, with currento € 230.1 million. Earnings per share stood clever little report 2011 P : 109 | C : 7 Management Report General Economic Situation both in track events and on the soccer field. This enabled the Company to grow while According to the Kiel Institute’s winter forecast for significantly increasing its brand desirability. As the supplier for Usain Bolt – currently the World Economy (IfW) published on December 20, 2011, the world’s fastest man – and the Jamaican the global economic recovery has faltered in 2011. team, PUMA once again highlighted its position as one of the leading running brands. In addition, PUMA further increased its brand awareness in women’s soccer by supplying eight female players from the German national team as well as international stars, such as Brazilian brand ambassador During the first half of 2011, there was only sion rate for the fourth quarter of 2011. All in Marta, with the PUMA Speed v1.11 soccer a moderate increase in the world gross all, following a very strong increase of 5.1% boot at the World Cup in Germany. With 16 domestic product (GDP), in part because of in 2010, global production rose by only 3.8% goals, this boot was the tournament’s top temporary factors such as the strong rise during the past year. goal scorer. Likewise, with his PUMA socin commodity prices and the impact of the cer boots, Mario Gomez was clearly the top earthquake in Japan. As these factors subTo a certain extent, the sporting goods indusBundesliga goal scorer in the 2010-11 seasided – in the second half of the year, prices try was also affected by the global economic son with 28 goals in just 32 German league of oil and other commodities decreased, in downturn over the past year. Nevertheless, matches, and he once again leads the goalsome cases substantially, and Japan quickly the industry did report moderate sales scoring chart heading into the winter break overcame its production bottlenecks – globgrowth – despite the tough market and con2011/12 with 16 goals in 16 German league al production rebounded sharply. Neverthesumer environment, and the fact that there matches. In addition, less, the business barometer continues to were few major sporting events. However, point downward. Furthermore, the debt criincreasing and/or volatile commodity prices PUMA succeeded in enhancing its soccer sis in the Euro zone is expected to persist. and wages have exerted heavy pressure on portfolio in 2011 by entering into sponsorThe IfW-indicator for global economic activearnings in many companies. ship agreements with top international ity, which is based on indicators of market players Sergio Agüero, Radamel Falcao sentiment in 41 countries, points in the PUMA seized the opportunities that presentand Cesc Fàbregas, as well as with Borussame direction. Until recently, it indicated a ed themselves during the past year, achievsia Dortmund, the current German soccer downward trend and suggests a low expaning impressive successes for the brand, champions. clever little report 2011 P : 110 | C : 7 Management Report Strategy friendly packaging system, but we are also providing the global business world with new, innovative approaches to business management, such as our environmental Transformation: With our sales target of € 4 billion by 2015 in mind, we are working on the further development of our organization and our busiOur goal is to become the world’s most desirable and income statement. ness model so that we can achieve even In October 2010, PUMA’s Board of Managegreater growth potential. One of the keys to sustainable sports lifestyle company. ment introduced the strategic five-year plan, our success in recent decades has been our dubbed Back on the Attack , designed to achieve local management in different regions and our long-term sales potential of € 4 billion countries, which has allowed us to ensure by 2015. Our 2011 business performance that our products are optimally suited to demonstrated that we are implementing meet the needs of specific markets. We are this strategic plan on schedule. The € 3,009 convinced that our strong business manmillion in sales posted in 2011 represented agement, which targets local needs, is the an important milestone on our way toward most important component of our success achieving € 4 billion in sales by and consequently we will continue to rein2015. Besides achieving the financial tarforce it as the basis for our future growth. gets, we were able to execute and initiOnly a strong regional structure can provide ate our strategic initiatives embedded in the proximity to our customers that we need the “Back on the Attack Plan” as planned. in order to recognize and take advantage We are pursuing this goal with our unique of new market opportunities. In 2011, we ‘Joy’ market positioning. As the brand for Restructuring: launched a Company-wide transformation the young and the young-at-heart, PUMA is During the financial crisis, we have proprogram designed to optimize our business provocative, innovative, dynamic, ventureactively cut costs in order to ensure our model at the regional level. some, rebellious and future-oriented, and profitability. One of the most fundamenit enthuses the world of sports, sports lifetal initiatives was the restructuring of our Brand Heat: style and sports fashion. retail business. After several years of rapIn the last 12 months we have initiated a As the creative market leader in the sports id growth, we are much more focused on significant overhaul of our Brand Manlifestyle segment, we have both the opporincreasing our stores’ profitability. In 2011, agement structure and established a new tunity and the responsibility to contribute to we opened a large number of new stores, strategy to bring simplicity, clarity and a a better world for ourselves and for future reconfigured selected stores and closed refreshed, youthful outlook to the brand. generations. More specifically, we aim to unprofitable ones. We expect our stores’ We have begun by better defining the difreduce our environmental footprint in terms profitability to increase as a result of this ferentiation among our brand elements, of energy, water, waste and paper by 25% consolidation. Our new “Retail 2.0” concept, Sport Performance, Sportlifestyle, and by 2015. In our quest for sustainability, not which we have already successfully testSport Fashion, and are establishing clearonly do we have a cutting edge in the sports ed in our key markets in 2011, will now be er, consumer-focused value propositions lifestyle segment with innovations such as rolled out in other countries, thereby laying for each of our product and marketing catthe ‘Clever Little Bag’, our environmentally the groundwork for future growth. egories. As a result of these internal steps, clever little report 2011 P : 111 | C : 7 Management Report our consumer-facing communications Distribution Focus: meaningfully enhance our portfolio. This is are beginning to have a stronger tie to our To fulfill our ambitious growth targets, we consistent with our acquisitions in recent product portfolio, and the organization is require a focused approach to our key years of Brandon, Dobotex, Cobra Golf and reshaping around a new philosophy of colgrowth drivers. Exceptional attention is Janed. In the years to come, PUMA will focus laborative idea generation resulting in innotherefore being paid to the top 6 mature maron exploiting its group-wide synergies. vative and fresh approaches to the market. kets as well as top 6 emerging markets, our In addition, we’ve taken a look at the conkey accounts and our Direct-to-Consumer sumer landscape without any preconcepbusiness incl. retail and e-commerce. Our tions, and defined a new global Marketing top 6 mature markets USA, Japan, France, Strategy and communications philosophy. Germany, Italy and UK are the largest conWe as a team are embracing emerging tributors to our sales. Despite a challengchannels in an effort to achieve far greater ing market environment, sales continued to brand heat with our target audience. These grow in 2011. Amongst our strongest growth fundamental shifts in both philosophy and drivers in 2011 were our top 6 emerging tactical approach are resulting in step by markets Brazil, China, India, Korea, Mexico step gains in the overall heat of the PUMA and Russia. In these markets we grew our brand. sales at above average speed and further strengthened our market position for future Product Desirability: growth. With these growth developments, In line with our brand ambitions, we want we are on track to achieve our targeted to offer our consumers the most desirable sales mix of 38% in the top 6 mature marproducts in the Sportslifestyle industry. kets, 22% in the top 6 emerging markets and We believe that our product desirability is 40% in the rest of world by 2015. In addition, driven by innovation in technology, design we realigned our resources with our key and sustainability. To further strengthen growth opportunities by focusing dedicated our capabilities and drive product desirteams to our key accounts. Our retail and ability, innovation think tanks have been e-commerce business grew in 2011 in line set up in each of our product departments. with our expectations. We expect continued These teams are working on futuristic growth in our retail and e-commerce chanideas and disruptive innovations outside of nels, which should account for 20% of total the standard Go-to-Market processes and sales by 2015. timelines. Moreover, the enhanced focus and differentiation on our Performance Growth through acquisitions: and Sportslifestyle categories is increasWe intend to achieve our ambitious growth ingly reflected in our product collections to targets primarily through organic growth, better meet the demands of our target and to make only very selective, strateconsumer groups. gic investments in acquisitions in order to clever little report 2011 P : 112 | C : 7 Management Report Business Development Sales F.1 Brand sales F.2 Brand sales by product segment million € million € 3,500 3,500 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 2,000 2,000 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,000 500 500 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Licensees PUMA Group Accessories Apparel Footwear Brand sales PUMA’s worldwide, currency-adjusted brand sales, comprising revenues from licenses Currency-adjusted footwear sales rose by 10.0% to € 1,565 million, while apparel sales and consolidated sales increased in the financial year 2011 by 11.8% to € 3,172.5 million. increased by 9.5% to € 1,111.9 million, Accessories jumped by 24.2% to € 495.5 million. In the reporting currency, the euro, brandsales were 10.8% higher than in the previous Footwear accounted for 49.3% (50.5%) of brand sales, apparel for 35.0% (35.5%) and accesyear. sories for 15.6% (13.9%). clever little report 2011 P : 113 | C : 7 Management Report F.3 Brand sales by region F.4 Consolidated sales million € 3,500 2011 3,000 2,500 2010 2,000 1,500 2009 1,000 2008 500 0 2007 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Asia/Pacific Americas EMEA 2,000 2,400 2,800 3,200 million € This table shows a breakdown of brand sales by region: EMEA 43.3% (44.8%), the Americas Consolidated sales 33.1% (32.8%) and Asia/Pacific 23.6% (22.5%). In the financial year 2011, currency-adjusted consolidated sales rose by 12.1% to € 3,009 million. In the reporting currency, the euro, consolidated sales were 11.2% higher than in the previous year. Management thus achieved its sales target, reaching the milestone of € 3.0 billion in consolidated sales for the first time. The change in the group of consolidated companies in the reporting year had no material impact on sales. clever little report 2011 P : 114 | C : 7 Management Report F.5 Consolidated sales by product segment f.6 Retail sales million € million € 3,200 600 20 % 2,800 500 2,400 400 2,000 1,600 300 18 % 1,200 200 800 100 400 0 0 16 % 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Accessories Apparel Footwear Retail sales in % of consolidated sales Foot we ar In the Footwear segment, currency-adjusted sales rose by 9.9% to € 1,539.5 milRetail businesses lion, or 51.2% of consolidated sales (previous year: 52.6%). PUMA’s own retail businesses include PUMA stores, factory outlets and online sales, which guarantee local availability and a controlled sale of PUMA products. In the financial year Apparel In the Apparel segment, currency-adjusted sales rose by 9.9% to € 1,035.6 million, 2011, sales from the Company’s own retail businesses rose by 9.5% to € 515.0 million, equal or 34.4% of consolidated sales (previous year: 34.8%). to 17.1% of total consolidated sales. The increase in retail sales was the result of opening new stores and/or the targeted reconfiguration of existing stores. Accessories In the Accessories segment, currency-adjusted sales jumped by 27.3% to In the future, PUMA’s own retail operations will continue to be an important pillar of its € 433.9 million, primarily due to the full-year effect of the Cobra Golf acquisition in April business and an important component of its brand strategy, because immediate proximity 2010. As a result, Accessories accounted for 14.4% of consolidated sales, up from 12.6% in to the consumer increases the speed with which products can be developed and brought to the previous year. market. They also allow the Company to present innovative products in a brand-appropriate environment while creating a unique brand experience. clever little report 2011 P : 115 | C : 7 Management Report g.7 License Sales / License and Commission Income million € 800 16 % 600 12 % 400 8% 200 4% 0 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 License in % of Royalty and commission income Licensing business For various product segments such as watches, fragrances and eyewear, PUMA issues licenses authorizing independent partners to design, develop and sell these products. Revenue from license agreements also includes some sales licenses for various markets. Currency-adjusted license sales increased by 7.0% in 2011 to € 163.5 million. License sales included € 17.6 million of royalty and commission income (previous year: € 19.1 million). That represented 10.8% of license sales (previous year: 12.3%). clever little report 2011 P : 116 | C : 7 Management Report T.1 Income Statement 2011 2010 € million % € million % +/– % Sales 3,009.0 100.0% 2,706.4 100.0% 11.2% Cost of sales -1,515.6 -50.4% -1,361.6 -50.3% 11.3% Gross profit 1,493.4 49.6% 1,344.8 49.7% 11.0% Royalty and commission income 17.6 0.6% 19.1 0.7% -8.0% Other operating income and expenses -1,177.8 -39.1% -1,026.1 -37.9% 14.8% Operating income before special items 333.2 11.1% 337.8 12.5% -1.4% Special items 0.0 0.0% -31.0 -1.1% -100.0% Operating income (EBIT) 333.2 11.1% 306.8 11.3% 8.6% Financial result -12.8 -0.4% -5.3 -0.2% 141.1% Earnings before taxes (EBT) 320.4 10.6% 301.5 11.1% 6.3% Taxes on income -90.0 -3.0% -99.3 -3.7% -9.4% Tax rate 28.1% 32.9% Net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests -0.3 0.0% 0.0 0.0% Net earnings 230.1 7.6% 202.2 7.5% 13.8% Weighted average shares outstanding (million) 14,981 15,031 -0.3% Weighted average shares outstanding, diluted (million) 14,985 15,123 -0.9% Earnings per share in € 15.36 13.45 14.2% Earnings per share, diluted in € 15.36 13.37 14.9% Results of Operations To provide a more transparent view of business development, the chart above and the explanations below – unlike the income statement – show the special items relating to non-recurring expenses on a separate line, because the operating income prior to applying special items provides a more accurate picture of the company’s profitability. There were no special items to report in the financial year 2011. clever little report 2011 P : 117 | C : 7 Management Report f.8 Gross profit / Gross profit margin f.9 Operating expenses as a % of consolidated sales million € 1.600 55 % 40 % 1.200 50 % 800 45 % 30 % 400 40 % 0 35 % 20 % 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Gross profit Gross profit margin Gross profit margin Despite increasing input price pressures in the form of volatile wages and commodity pricWithin the selling expenses, marketing/retail expenses rose by 9.8% to € 550.7 million. es, the Company’s gross profit margin in the financial year 2011 remained high at 49.6%. However, the corresponding expense ratio decreased from 18.5% to 18.3% of sales. Due to In absolute terms, the gross profit margin increased by 11.0% from € 1,344.8 million to the increase in sales, other selling expenses increased by 11.0% to € 387.1 million and the € 1,493.4 million. A breakdown by product segment shows that the gross profit margin was expense ratio remained constant at 12.9% of sales. Expenditures for product development 49.1% in the Footwear segment (previous year: 48.9%) and 49.6% in the Apparel segment and design increased from € 63.6 million to € 77.0 million and as a percentage of sales rose (down from 50.6% the previous year). In Accessories, the margin increased from 50.6% to from 2.3% to 2.6%. Investments under the strategic growth plan and the increase in the 51.6%. number of employees were two of the reasons why general and administrative expenses went up by 31.8% to € 195.3 million. This caused the expense ratio as a percentage of sales Other operating income and expenses to rise from 5.5% to 6.5%. In addition, the Company reported other operating income of Other operating income and expenses increased by 14.8% to € 1,177.8 million due to invest€ 32.2 million (previous year: € 35.5 million). ments related to the strategic ‘Back on the Attack’ growth plan and to the full-year impact Depreciation and amortization charges totaling € 57.4 million (a 4.1% increase from the of the Cobra Golf takeover in April 2010. Therefore, as expected, the expense ratio increased previous year) are included under the respective cost items. from 37.9% in the previous year to 39.1%. clever little report 2011 P : 118 | C : 7 Management Report Special items Financial Result There were no special items to report in the financial year 2011. The special items reported In 2011, the net loss from financing activities (financial result) totaled € 12.8 million, comthe previous year refer solely to non-recurring expenses relating to a subsidiary in Greece. pared with a net loss of € 5.3 million in 2010. The financial result includes interest income of € 5 .2 million (previous year: € 4.4 million) and interest expenses of € 8.4 million (previous year: € 5.9 million). The financial result also g.10 f.10 OPERATIng Operational income result EBIT includes € 1.1 million in income (previous year: € 1.8 million) from an associated company, Wilderness Holdings Ltd. In addition, the financial result includes expenses for long-term million € purchase price liabilities and accrued interest from company acquisitions totaling € 2.7 mil500 25 % lion (previous year: € 4.3 million), € 1.1 million from pension plan valuations (previous year: € 1.3 million) and € 6.9 million in currency-conversion differences associated with financing activities (previous year: € 0.0 million). 400 20 % Earnings before taxes (EBT) In absolute terms, earnings before taxes increased from € 301.5 million in the previous year 300 15 % to € 320.4 million. Tax expenses dropped from € 99.3 million to € 90.0 million. In the financial year 2011, the tax 200 10 % rate was 28.1%; due to special items, the tax rate was 32.9% the previous year. Net earnings 100 5% The Company posted a double-digit (13.8%) increase in net earnings from € 202.2 million in the previous year to € 230.1 million in financial year 2011. The net rate of return increased slightly, from 7.5% in 2010 to 7.6% in 2011. 0 0% Earnings per share increased from € 13.45 to € 15.36, while diluted earnings per share 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 increased from € 13.37 to € 15.36. Operating profit as a % of sales Operating income (EBIT) Operating income improved by 8.6%, from € 306.8 million in the previous year to € 333.2 million. As a percentage of sales, this was equal to an operating margin of 11.1%. clever little report 2011 P : 119 | C : 7 Management Report f.11 Earnings / Dividend per share f.12 EMEA sales in € in € million € 20.00 3.00 1,400 1,200 16.00 2.50 1,000 12.00 2.00 800 600 8.00 1.00 400 4.00 0.50 200 0.00 0.00 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Earnings per share Dividend Dividends Regional Performance The Managing Directors and the Administrative Board will recommend to shareholders at EMEA Currency-adjusted sales in the EMEA region rose by 7.7% to € 1,312 million. In the the Annual General Meeting on April 24, 2012 that a dividend of € 2.00 per share be distribreporting currency, the euro, sales increased by 7.4%. As a percentage of consolidated uted from PUMA SE’s retained earnings for financial year 2011. As a percentage of net earnsales, the EMEA region accounted for 43.6%, compared to 45.1% the previous year. ings, the payout ratio amounts to 13.0% compared to 13.3% in the prior year. The dividends A breakdown by product segment shows that currency-adjusted sales in the Footwear will be distributed the day after the Annual General Meeting, when the resolution on the segment increased by 5.7%, while currency-adjusted Apparel sales increased by 4.9% and distribution is adopted. sales of Accessories jumped by 19.7%. EMEA’s gross profit margin increased from 50.6% in 2010 to 50.8% in 2011. clever little report 2011 P : 120 | C : 7 Management Report f.13 Americas sales f.14 Asia/Pacific sales million € million € 1,000 1,000 800 800 600 600 400 400 200 200 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Americas In the Americas, the Company posted a currency-adjusted increase in sales of Asia/Pacific Currency-adjusted sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose by 13.3% to € 730.1 17.7%, to € 966.9 million. The majority of this sales increase was generated by the Commillion. In the reporting currency, the Euro, sales were 16.1% higher than the year before. pany’s Latin American operations. The Americas now, accounts for 32.1% of consolidated This region accounted for 24.3% of consolidated sales in 2011, compared to 23.2% in the sales, up from 31.6%. previous year. Currency-adjusted sales from the Footwear segment increased by 8.9%, while Apparel In the Footwear segment, currency-adjusted sales rose by 22.9%, while Apparel posted a sales rose by as much as 28.4%. Accessories sales jumped by 73.0%, due primarily to the 7.2% increase and Accessories achieved an 11.1% increase. full-year effect of the Cobra Golf acquisition in April 2010. The gross profit margin declined from 52.0% to 51.0%. The gross profit margin for the Americas increased from 46.6% in 2010 to 47.1% in 2011. clever little report 2011 P : 121 | C : 7 Management Report net assets & financial position T.2 Statement of Financial Position 2011 2010 € million % € million % +/– % Cash and cash equivalents 448.2 17.4% 479.6 20.3% -6.5% Inventories 536.8 20.8% 439.7 18.6% 22.1% Trade receivables 533.1 20.7% 447.0 18.9% 19.3% Other current assets (Working Capital) 167.6 6.5% 177.6 7.5% -5.6% Other current assets 28.7 1.1% 3.3 0.1% 770.0% Current assets 1,714.5 66.4% 1,547.2 65.4% 10.8% Deferred taxes 109.1 4.2% 96.5 4.1% 13.0% Other non-current assets 758.2 29.4% 722.9 30.5% 4.9% Non-current assets 867.3 33.6% 819.4 34.6% 5.8% Total assets 2,581.8 100.0% 2,366.6 100.0% 9.1% Current bank liabilities 35.1 1.4% 42.8 1.8% -18.0% Trade liabilities 431.4 16.7% 344.3 14.5% 25.3% Other current liabilities (Working Capital) 272.1 10.5% 315.5 13.3% -13.7% Other current liabilities 100.5 3.9% 96.4 4.1% 4.3% Current liabilities 839.2 32.5% 799.0 33.8% 5.0% Deferred taxes 63.6 2.5% 50.7 2.1% 25.5% Pension provisions 29.8 1.2% 26.1 1.1% 14.2% Other non-current liabilities 44.0 1.7% 104.4 4.4% -57.8% Non-current liabilities 137.5 5.3% 181.2 7.7% -24.1% Shareholders‘ equity 1,605.2 62.2% 1,386.4 58.6% 15.8% Total liabilities and shareholders‘ equity 2,581.8 100.0% 2,366.6 100.0% 9.1% Working capital 534.0 404.5 32.0% in % of consolidated sales 17.7% 14.9% clever little report 2011 P : 122 | C : 7 Management Report f.15 Total assets / Equity ratio f.16 Working Capital million € million € 3,000 70 % 600 2,500 65 % 500 25 % 2,000 60 % 400 20 % 1,500 55 % 300 15 % 1,000 50% 200 10% 500 45 % 100 5% 0 40 % 0 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total assets Equity ratio Working Capital as a % of consolidated sales Equity ratio Working Capital Total assets increased by 9.1% from € 2,366.6 million to € 2,581.8 million as of December 31, In the reporting year, working capital increased by 32.0% from € 404.5 million to € 534.0 2011, due primarily to the increase in inventories and trade receivables. million; as a percentage of sales, it rose from 14.9% to 17.7%. Despite the increase in total assets, the equity ratio rose from 58.6% in the previous year to The increase in working capital was mainly attributable to the 22.1% increase in invento62.2%. In absolute terms, shareholders’ equity increased by 15.8% from € 1,386.4 million to ries, caused by an increase of stock and also higher prices, to € 536.8 million. The 19.3% € 1,605.2 million. PUMA thus continues to enjoy an extremely strong capital base. increase in trade receivables to € 533.1 million was mainly due to the substantial increase in sales in the fourth quarter of 2011. The increase in current assets was partially offset by the 25.3% increase in trade payables to € 431.4 million. clever little report 2011 P : 123 | C : 7 Management Report Other assets T.3 Cash Flow Statement 2011 2010 Other current assets decreased from € 177.6 million to € 167.6 million. This was attribut€ million € million +/– % able, among other things, to the decrease in income tax receivables. Other non-current Earnings before tax (EBT) 320.4 301.5 6.3% assets, consisting mainly of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, rose by 4.9% to € 758.2 million, reflecting in particular retrospective purchasing price adjustments Financial result and expenses and income and changes in exchange rates affecting goodwill and advance payments on intangible not in the income statement 61.2 56.9 7.5% assets related to IT investments. Gross cash flow 381.5 358.4 6.5% Other current liabilities decreased from € 315.5 million to € 272.1 million, primarily attribChange in current assets, net -105.9 -97.0 9.2% utable to the decrease in other current provisions. The item ‘Other non-current liabilities’ Taxes and interest payments -148.8 -92.0 61.8% mainly includes acquisition-related liabilities and non-current provisions. In particular, the Net cash from operating activities 126.8 169.4 -25.2% 2011 decrease from € 104.4 to € 44.0 million resulted from a change in the maturity structure of the acquisition-related liabilities. Payment for acquisitions -44.2 -108.4 -59.2% cash flow Payment for investing in fixed assets -71.1 -55.2 28.9% Gross cash flow increased by 6.5% to € 381.5 million in the financial year 2011, primarily due Other investing activities 5.3 11.3 -52.9% to higher earnings before taxes (EBT), which resulted from a steady gross profit margin on Net cash used in investing activities -110.0 -152.3 -27.8% higher sales. Free cash flow 16.8 17.1 -2.0% Free cash flow (before acquisition) 61.0 125.5 -51.4% in % of consolidated sales 2.0% 4.6% Net cash used in financing activities -58.8 -54.2 8.6% Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 10.7 31.1 -65.6% Change in cash and cash equivalents -31.4 -6.0 423.2% Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year 479.6 485.6 -1.2% Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 448.2 479.6 -6.5% clever little report 2011 P : 124 | C : 7 Management Report f.17 Gross cashflow f.18 Free cashflow (before acquisitions) million € million € 500 300 400 200 300 200 100 100 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The change in net working capital reflected a cash outflow of € 105.9 million, compared The net result of cash in and outflows from current operating and investing activities is the to € 97.0 in the previous year. Taxes and interest payments totaled € 148.8 million in the free cash flow, which was virtually unchanged at € 16.8 million (previous year: € 17.1 million). financial year 2011, compared to € 92.0 million the previous year. This item included tax Without considering payments for acquisitions, free cash flow dropped from € 125.5 million payments including back taxes from tax audits, of € 141.6 million, up from € 86.1 million. to € 61.0 million. As a percentage of sales, free cash flow (before acquisitions) decreased to Net cash generated by operating activities totaled € 126.8 million, versus € 169.4 million in 2.0% from 4.6% in the previous year. the previous year. The cash outflow from investing activities decreased from € 152.3 million The cash outflow from financing activities mainly includes € 26.8 million in dividend payto € 110.0 million. This decline was due mainly to the Cobra Golf acquisition in 2010. This was ments and € 26.6 million for the purchase of treasury shares. partially offset by an increase in current investments in fixed assets from € 55.2 million to Cash and cash equivalents decreased from € 479.6 million at the beginning of the year to € 71.1 million in 2011. € 448.2 million as of December 31, 2011. clever little report 2011 P : 125 | C : 7 Management Report Value Management The cash flow return on investment (CFROI) is used to measure the return on equity and is the quotient of the cash flow and the cost (gross) basis of the investment. f.19 Absolute Value Contribution The cost (gross) basis of the investment includes all the financial resources and assets available before accumulated depreciation and amortization. The gross cash flow is equal million € to net earnings before special items, adjusted for depreciation/amortization and interest 250 expense. The cash flow return on investment (CFROI) declined to 14.6% from 15.6% in the previous year. 200 The absolute value added is equal to the cost (gross) basis of the investment multiplied by the difference between the cash flow return on investment (CFROI) and the weightedaverage cost of capital (WACC). 150 Taking into account the 6.5% WACC (previous year: 7.1%), the absolute value added increased by 6.5% from € 156.7 million to € 166.8 million. 100 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 clever little report 2011 P : 126 | C : 7 Management Report T.4 Calculation of T.5 Weighted Average Calculation of 2011 2010 2009* 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009* 2008 2007 Capital Costs (WACC) CFROI and CVA € million € million € million € million € million Net earnings before attribution (without special items) 230.4 223.0 162.9 249.4 271.6 Riskfree interest rate 1.9% 3.1% 3.8% 4.0% 4.3% Market premium 6.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% + Depreciation and amortization 57.4 55.2 60.2 55.9 46.0 Beta (M-DAX, 24 Months) 0.86 0.92 0.92 0.97 0.97 + Interest expenses 12.2 11.5 11.8 10.8 10.7 Cost of stockholders equity 7.0% 7.7% 8.4% 8.9% 9.1% Gross cash flow 300.1 289.7 235.0 316.1 328.4 Riskfree interest rate 1.9% 3.1% 3.8% 4.0% 4.3% Credit risk premium 2.5% 2.0% 3.0% 2.3% 1.3% Monetary assets 1,202.8 1,131.8 950.2 898.3 1.023.3 Tax shield 28.1% 32.9% 44.1% 29.0% 29.0% Non interest-bearing liabilties 708.3 679.0 524.4 515.5 465.6 Cost of liabilities after tax 3.2% 3.4% 3.8% 4.5% 3.9% Net liquidity 494.6 452.8 425.8 382.8 557.7 Calculation Market Capitalization 3,370.7 3,715.3 3,496.7 2,116.1 4,341.5 + Inventory 536.8 439.7 344.4 430.8 373.6 Share of equity 85.7% 87.8% 86.8% 79.1% 94.5% + Fixed assets at prime cost 488.7 470.0 444.6 407.8 323.6 Calculatetd liabilities 563.4 514.9 535.8 561.0 251.9 + Intangible assets at prime cost 533.7 498.2 358.0 233.9 212.6 Share of liabilities 14.3% 12.2% 13.3% 21.0% 5.5% Gross investment basis 2,053.7 1,860.7 1,572.8 1,455.3 1,467.5 WACC after tax 6.5% 7.1% 7.8% 8.0% 8.8% Cash flow Return on Investment (CFROI) 14.6% 15.6% 14.9% 21.7% 22.4% * adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8, see notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 CFROI WACC 8.1% 8.4% 7.2% 13.7% 13.6% Cash Value Added (CVA) 166.8 156.7 112.5 200.0 198.9 * adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8, see notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 clever little report 2011 P : 127 | C : 7 Management Report Product Development and Design Product philosophy AND strategy Our product strategy flows directly from our goal of becoming the most desirable and sustainable sports lifestyle company in the world. McQueen, Yasuhiro Mihara and Hussein Chalayan. Naturally, we strive every year to learn from our customers and to understand their Our products can be broken down into three tion, we offer high-tech outdoor products Dortmund, now belong to the PUMA family. desires and needs in detail, because that’s segments: Sports Performance, Sports that were developed for our Volvo Ocean In the Sports Lifestyle segment, PUMA the only way we can develop relevant prodLifestyle and Sports Fashion. This means Race Team and the America’s Cup Team, designs and develops products for the Motor uct designs that fully meet market expecthere are no sports products without style where they were successfully tested under Sports, Sport Heritage and Modern Lifestyle tations. At the same time, our designers and no lifestyle products without the inspithe most extreme weather conditions. categories. Our Sports Lifestyle products and product developers in Herzogenaurach, ration or features from the sports segment. Here at PUMA, we are convinced that peak draw on successful designs from our more Boston and London are constantly monitorIn the Sports Performance segment, PUMA performance in sports should always be than 60-year-long history, our partnerships ing markets around the globe and creating designs and develops collections for athcombined with fun and enjoyment. We therewith leading motor sports brands and the their inspirations from trends in the street letes from the Team Sports, Running, Trainfore endeavor to set new standards with a newest trends in the sports and street style style or popculture category. Our current ing & Fitness, Golf, Outdoor, Swimming distinctive, colorful and exciting design lanscene, without losing sight of our passion design theme, ‘From London to Tokyo’, is and Sailing categories. Thanks to our many guage. Our brand ambassador, Usain Bolt – for sports. a prime example of our global approach of years of R&D experience, we have a deep the world’s fastest man – perfectly embodIn the Sports Fashion segment, PUMA identifying trends and allowing us to draw understanding of innovative technologies ies this unique positioning which blends designs and develops sports fashion prodinspiration from the wishes of our customand processes for performance sports. For sports, joy and a positive attitude. Moreover, ucts under the Black Label. The Black ers around the world. At the same time, our example, Faasfoam, one of our most recent we have reinforced our brand presence in Label’s futuristic and innovative designs regional merchandise teams apply their major innovations, is one of the lightest the Sports Performance / Soccer segment combine influences from the Sports and strategic expertise to decide which prodand most resilient foam sole materials on in 2011 by signing contracts with outstandLifestyle segment and transfer these to the ucts are the most relevant in which markets. the market. This material allows us to offer ing soccer players. We are proud of the fact world of fashion. The Black Label CollecThis organizational culture, which is simulultra-light running shoes for performance that top stars such as Cesc Fabregàs, Sertions are developed both in-house by our taneously both global and local, enables us athletes, which at the same time reflects gio Agüero and Radamel Falcao, as well as international design team and in cooperato develop unique, desirable and relevant our minimalist design philosophy. In addithe reigning German champions, Borussia tion with fashion labels such as Alexander products for our target groups worldwide. clever little report 2011 P : 128 | C : 7 Management Report Innovation and sustainability Our entire product-development process is based on two performance indicators and core competencies: innovation and sustainability. Procurement World Cat Ltd. is PUMA’s own procurement organization and responsible for purchasing for all PUMA, Tretorn and Cobra products. That’s why we have established in the Footdesign that replaces the conventional shoeWorld Cat Ltd. has outsourced the entire wear and Apparel segments globally oribox, we not only reduced our CO2 emissions Areas of responsibility product-procurement process to indepenented Innovation Teams that function as considerably, but also revolutionized the As our procurement agent, World Cat Ltd. is dent suppliers, most of which have been internal innovation centers and promote shoepackaging market. Following a pilot responsible for guaranteeing and ensuring business partners for many years. In return, revolutionary product innovations. In the phase and some design adjustments, we the entire product-procurement process for these suppliers manage several indepenarea of sustainability, we are pursuing the will introduce the ‘Clever Little Bag’ across our brands. This includes selecting suitable dent local production sites. In order to optiambitious goal of significantly increasing our entire product portfolio in 2012. suppliers, negotiating delivery and payment mize workflows, these suppliers have been the proportion of sustainable materials in Through our global design approach, our terms and supporting the PUMA Sales orgaintegrated as strategic partners into the our products and implementing sustaindeep understanding of customer needs and nization in placing orders, making changes ‘Strategic Supplier Concept’, which involves able production and distribution processes industrial trends, our Innovation Teams and to orders and cancelling orders with manuintensive relationship management, reguthroughout the value chain. In the process, our continuous efforts to develop more susfacturers. lar performance evaluations and strategic we follow a holistic approach and declare tainable products, we also continue to raise In addition, World Cat Ltd. is responsible coordination. a product to be ‘sustainable’ only if at least the bar worldwide for revolutionary design for supervising and supporting all pro50% of its surface or weight is comprised of and innovative product developments. duction activities – including strict qualSustainability truly sustainable materials and it was manity inspections – of our suppliers. This Sustainability is an increasingly important ufactured by a factory that the PUMA.Safe ensures a continually high level of product issue for World Cat Ltd., because PUMA‘s team has rated as A or B+. quality and compliance with environmenlong-term goal is to become not only the In addition to our major efforts to develop tal and social standards concerning promost desirable, but also the most sustainsustainable products, we are also continuduction. Suppliers’ compliance with these able Sports Lifestyle company in the world. ing to implement sustainable packaging requirements is coordinated and moniIn order to accomplish our sustainability ideas that enable us to reduce our environtored by PUMA.Safe, a division of World Cat targets by 2015, World Cat Ltd. is increasing mental impact and thus our environmentalLtd., to ensure PUMA’s high standards are our suppliers’ awareness of sustainability, footprint. Through the introduction of the followed throughout the entire supply advising them on implementation of poten‘Clever Little Bag’, an innovative packaging chain. tial sustainability projects and monitoring clever little report 2011 P : 129 | C : 7 Management Report their results in order to achieve long-term World Cat Ltd.‘s procurement activities tries. improvements. In addition, the procurehave expanded rapidly. Reduced turnaround ment organization is also promoting the use times and a lower environmental impact are of more sustainable materials by effectively additional advantages to increased local, developing materials suppliers and is makmarket-oriented procurement, which we ing it possible to stop price increases relathave also expanded in other Latin American ing to the sustainability initiatives through countries, South Africa, India and China. transparent cost control. In 2011, World Cat Ltd.’s global procurement Procurement market network encompassed more than 150 supIn today’s increasingly volatile procurement pliers with factories in 32 different counenvironment, with increasing wages, fluctuating commodity prices and constantly changing foreign-exchange rates and inflation rates, the flexibility to choose suppliers and locations is critically important. While World Cat Ltd.’s main procurement activities continue to be focused on the f.20 Sourcing markets / Units Asian procurement market with China (39%) and Vietnam (21%) as the biggest sources for procurement, countries such as Indonesia, 100 % Cambodia and Bangladesh are also becoming increasingly important. In order to ensure that it is well placed to react quickly and appropriately to the aforementioned 75 % macroeconomic developments, World Cat Ltd. actively follows commodity and labor market trends in the respective countries. 50 % Regional procurement is also playing an increasingly important role within PUMA’s procurement organization, reflecting the Company’s need to be able to better react to 25 % the differing demand and business concerns in different regions. In the South American market, in particular, where anti-dumping 0% measures, high import tariffs and growAsia/Pacific EMEA Americas ing sales potential favor local procurement, clever little report 2011 P : 130 | C : 7 Management Report Employees f.21 development employees 12,000 Number of employees 10,000 The annual average number of full-time 4,831 employees due to the expansion of the employees was 10,043 in 2011, compared to company’s own retail portfolio. 8,000 9,313 the previous year. The number of employees in Sales rose by Overall, personnel expenses rose by 11.2% 5.8% to 2,404. In the Product Development/ 6,000 from € 354.1 million to € 393.8 million and Design segment, the number of employees the average personnel expense per employjumped by 21.1% to 918, while the number of 4,000 ee was € 39.2 thousand, compared to € 38.0 employees in the General and Administrathousand the previous year. tive segments increased by 13.7% to 2,683. 2,000 As of December 31, 2011, the number of employees was 10,836, compared to 9,697 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 at the end of the previous year. In the Marketing/Retail segment, the number of employees increased by 12.2% to Employees (annual average) Employees (year-end) employees (year-end) f.22 Marketing / Retail sales product development/design administration and general units +12.2% +5.8% +21.1% +13.7% 4,306 4,831 2,273 2,404 758 918 2,361 2,683 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 clever little report 2011 P : 131 | C : 7 Management Report Our employees are the key Industrial Business Management Assistant of People@PUMA at our international locato our success (Industriekaufmann), a Retail Salesperson tions, the uniform employee development One of the key factors in PUMA’s long-term (Einzelhandelskaufmann), a Sales Specialist and target-setting system is now available success is the Company’s ability to attract (Handelsfachwirt), a qualified IT Specialist to more than 43% of our employees worldthe best, most talented employees. That (Fachinformatiker), a Warehouse Logistics wide. The development of the International is why PUMA places great importance on Specialist (Fachkraft für Lagerlogistik) or Leadership Program represents another recruiting future employees and on training a Specialist Warehouse Clerk (Fachlagermajor component of our global developand retaining existing employees. Because ist), dual-track (combined work-study) proment program for executives. We have had our employees are highly qualified, most grams are also offered in cooperation with positive feedback on the initial pilot training vacant management positions at the domesuniversities and vocational colleges. Every programs that started in Germany and the tic and international level can be filled from three months, students rotate between the UK at the end of 2011. within the PUMA Group’s own ranks. This on-campus study program and the practisafeguards the Company’s existing expercal semesters working in the Company. The tise and facilitates the transfer of know-how courses of study offered range from Interthrough knowledge-management projects. national Business to Sports Management to PUMA offers a working environment that Fashion Business Management. Since 2011, includes equal opportunities, diversity and PUMA has been offering graduates with an innovation and is in tune with the changinternational background and above-avering times. PUMA’s compensation system age grades the opportunity to take part in a includes a bonus program for all employees 15-month program for trainees, which gives that considers both the individual perforthem exposure to various departments both mance of the employee and the overall perat home and abroad. As of December 2011, formance of all employees. PUMA SE had 26 apprentices, four dualEmployee potential is also fostered by a high track students and six trainees. degree of personal responsibility and further developed through training programs. Promoting and developing talent In 2011, the newly designed training cataYoung talent log was unveiled and incorporated into our PUMA believes in attracting talent for People@PUMA talent management systhe long term and therefore expanded tem. As part of their individual development entry-level opportunities for young peoplans, employees and their managers can ple in 2011. Students can acquire their choose from a wide variety of innovative first practical experience at PUMA while training courses or contribute their own they are still in school, as part of internsuggestions for training programs. The ship programs and while working on the offered courses range from diversity to graduation thesis. In addition to vocationfunction-related training and to one-onal training towards becoming either an one coaching. Thanks to further expansion clever little report 2011 P : 132 | C : 7 Management Report Corporate Governance Report / Statement on Corporate Governance Pursuant to Section 289a HGB Effective implementation of corporate govGerman SE Implementation Act (SEAG), para. 4 of the Code’s Preamble. The Adminlidated financial statements to the Annual ernance is an important aspect of PUMA’s in conjunction with section 161 AktG, istrative Board manages the Company, General Meeting, Section 48 (2)(2) SEAG. corporate policy. Transparent and responPUMA SE’s Administrative Board declares determines the Company’s basic busisible corporate governance is a prerequithat, since the last Statement of Compliness strategies and monitors their imple> In derogation from Nos. 2.3.1(1) and 3.7(3) site for achieving corporate targets and for ance dated December 2010, and taking into mentation by the Managing Directors. The of the Code, the Administrative Board is increasing the Company’s value in a susconsideration the particulars of PUMA SE’s Managing Directors manage the Comresponsible for convening the Annual tainable manner. The Administrative Board single-tier system, as described under item 1, pany’s business, represent the Company General Meeting; sections 48 and 22(2) and the Managing Directors are working PUMA SE (formerly PUMA AG) has, with in and out of court and are bound SEAG. closely in the interests of the entire Compathe exceptions listed under item 2, been by instructions from the Administrative ny to ensure that the Company is managed in compliance and is in compliance with Board. > The duties of the Board of Management and monitored in an efficient way that will the recommendations by the Government Basically, PUMA SE takes those parts of the listed in sections 4.1.1 (Corporate Goverensure sustainable added value through Commission on the German Corporate Code that used to apply to the Supervisory nance), 4.1.2 in conjunction with 3.2(1) good corporate governance. Governance Code (as amended May 26, 2010 Board and applies them to the Adminis(Development of the Company’s Strateand effective July 2, 2010), and where it is trative Board and takes those parts of the gic Orientation), 6.1 (Publication of Insider Statement of Compliance not in compliance, explains why not. Code that used to apply to the Board of ManInformation) and 6.2 (Publication of Notifipursuant to Section 161 agement and applies them to its Managing cations on Voting Rights) of the Code are the 1. Particulars of the single-tier Directors. The following exceptions apply responsibility of the Administrative Board, of the German Stock corpoRate governance system with respect to the legal framework for the Section 22(1) SEAG. Corporation Act (AktG) According to Art. 43 – 45 SE-VO, in conjuncsingle-tier system: tion with sections 20 et seq. SEAG, under > The powers of the Board of Management 2011 Statement of Compliance: the single-tier system, management of the > In derogation from No. 2.2.1(1) of the Code, governed by sections 2.3.3(3) (Proxy Bound Pursuant to Art. 9 (1) c (ii) of the SE ReguSE is the responsibility of a single comthe Administrative Board must submit the by Instructions), 3.7(1) (Statement on a Takelation (SE-VO) and section 22(6) of the pany organ, the Administrative Board; see annual financial statements and the consoover Bid) and 3.7(2) (Conduct during a Takeclever little report 2011 P : 133 | C : 7 Management Report over Bid), as well as 3.10 (Corporate Goverwould not be able to take into account the accordance with the requirements of the the Company – and in particular, they must nance Report), 4.1.3 (Compliance) and 4.1.4 specific situation that gave rise to a premaGerman Stock Corporation Act (AktG). The see to it that a reasonable percentage of (Risk Management and Controlling) of the ture termination or the other circumstances Supervisory Board monitored the Board of women will be placed in such positions. Code shall be the responsibility of PUMA SE’s of the individual case of termination. Management and provided advice on its The members of the Administrative Board Administrative Board; Section 22(6) SEAG. management duties. have strong international backgrounds. > In accordance with the authorization by As a result of the change in legal form, the Some of them have many years of inter> In derogation from Nos. 5.1.2(5) and the Annual General Meeting on April 22, Company is now run by the Administrative national ties all over the world and have 5.1.2(6) of the Code, Managing Directors, 2008, pursuant to Section 286(5) HGB, the Board (single-tier system) , which determines amassed extensive international experiunlike members of the Board of ManageCompany has not published the amount of the Company’s basic business strategies ence through various assignments abroad. ment, are not subject to a fixed, maximum compensation for individual members of the and their implementation by the Managing The Administrative Board has established term of appointment; section 40(1)(1) SEAG. Board of Management and, until the authoDirectors . the goal of ensuring that future members rization expires, will not publish the amount In order to ensure that the Company’s value of the Board will also have international > In derogation from Nos. 5.4.2(2) and 5.4.4 of of compensation for individual Managing will increase in a sustainable way, guidebackgrounds by requiring that proposed the Code, members of the Administrative Directors (sections 4.2.4 and 4.2.5 of the lines have been developed and summarized candidates to the Administrative Board Board may be appointed as Managing DirecCode). The authorization applies to the in PUMAVision (see > http://about.puma.com must also have a strong international backtors, provided the majority of the AdministManaging Directors and they shall adhere under ‘Sustainable Development’). The ground and the relevant networks, internarative Board continues to consist of non-exeto the authorization when they prepare the PUMA Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct tional experience and orientation. Likewise, cutive Managing Directors; Section 40(1)(2) annual financial statements. (see > http://about.puma.com under ‘Susa reasonable percentage of women on the SEAG tainable Development”’ prescribes ethical Administrative Board should be guaranteed standards and environmental standards by nominating a corresponding percentage 2. Exeptions to the code Conversion of PUMA AG with which both employees and suppliers of female candidates. recommendations Rudolf Dassler Sport are required to comply. The Administrative Board prevents potential > In derogation from No. 3.8(3) of the Code, into PUMA SE conflicts of interests of its members by regmembers of the Administrative Board are In accordance with the resolution adopted on ularly monitoring and critically scrutinizing provided with D&O insurance with no deducApril 14, 2011 by the Annual General MeetTaking diversity and our its members’ other activities. tible. The Administrative Board feels that it ing and the July 25, 2011 entry in the Cominternational culture into The Administrative Board shall also act to can dispense with a deductible for members mercial Register, PUMA AG Rudolf Dassler account ensure diversity in the composition of the of the Administrative Board because the Sport was converted into a European ComThe Administrative Board and the ManagManaging Directors and shall endeavor to D&O insurance is group insurance for peoppany (Societas Europaea/SE), PUMA SE. ing Directors of PUMA SE must consider the ensure that women comprise a reasonable le in Germany and abroad, and a deductible recommendations of the German Corpopercentage of the Managing Directors. In is fairly unusual abroad. rate Governance Code, according to which the future, the inclusion of women amongst Relevant disclosures of the Company’s international operations and the Managing Directors shall be guaran> In derogation from No. 4.2.3(5) of the Code, corporate governance practices that diversity, amongst other things, must be teed in the event of a new appointment, in no limits on severance payments for preare applied beyond the regulatory taken into account when determining the particular by giving special consideration to mature termination as a Managing Director requirements composition of the Administrative Board women from among several equally qualidue to a change of control have been agreed Before the conversion, the Company was and the Managing Directors, as well as fied applicants. If a position must be filled because an agreement drawn up in advance managed by the Board of Management , in when filling management positions within by outside candidates, we will take special clever little report 2011 P : 134 | C : 7 Management Report care to consider properly qualified female Description of the working practices Administrative Board cial year after the term of office began (the candidates. of the Board of Management and the In accordance with the Articles of Assofinancial year in which the term of office The same applies when filling management Supervisory Board (before the ciation, the Administrative Board consists begins is not counted) and no later than six positions. When filling positions, the Manof at least three members. The members years after the appointment of each memconversion) and of the Administrative aging Directors shall act to ensure diversity of the Administrative Board are appointed ber of the Administrative Board. Members and shall endeavor to ensure that women Board and the Managing Directors by the Annual General Meeting, a third of of the Administrative Board may be reapcomprise a reasonable percentage of the (after the conversion) and the them pursuant to the German Codetermipointed. candidates considered. There are currently composition and working practices nation Act based on binding nominations by Meetings of the Administrative Board must women in various management positions. In of their committees employee representatives. be held at least every three months. Meetorder to include even more women in manThe SE’s Articles of Association (Article ings must also be held if required for the agement positions in the future, PUMA SE 7.3), adopted by the Annual General MeetCompany’s welfare or if a member of the is using part-time and half-day models, as The Rules of Procedure for the Board of ing, designated the shareholder represenAdministrative Board demands that a meetwell as flexible working hours and the proManagement, the Supervisory Board, the tatives to the first Administrative Board. ing be convened. The Administrative Board vision of more childcare places to promote a Administrative Board and the Managing They are Jochen Zeitz (Chairman), Franmet once in 2011 following the conversion. better balance between work and family life. Directors are available under “Company” at çois-Henri Pinault, Jean-François Palus, The names of the members of the AdminisMembers of PUMA SE’s Administrative > http://about.puma.com . Grégoire Amigues, Thore Ohlsson and trative Board are listed in the explanatory Board, its Managing Directors and other Michel Friocourt. Under consideration of disclosures in the Notes. executives have the opportunity to attend Supervisory Board the preliminary results of the employee To perform its duties, the Administrative appropriate training and continuing educaIn accordance with the Articles of Associainvolvement procedure (ArbeitnehmerbeBoard has established various committees, tion programs. tion, the Supervisory Board was composed teiligungsverfahren), the following employwhich report to it regularly on their work. of six members. Pursuant to the German ee representatives were appointed by court Codetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgeorder: Bernd Illig, Martin Köppel and Victor Executive Committee setz), the Supervisory Board consisted of Fernandes. The members of the Executive Committee four shareholder representatives plus two Pursuant to statutory requirements (secare Jochen Zeitz (Chairman), Michel Frioemployee representatives. tion 30(3) AktG), the members of the Admincourt and Martin Köppel. The Executive The names of the Supervisory Board memistrative Board are appointed for a period up Committee is responsible for organizing bers are listed in the explanatory discloto the close of the Annual General Meeting meetings of the Administrative Board and sures in the Notes. adopting a resolution approving the actions for making decisions when instructed by the Before the conversion, the Supervisory of the Board for PUMA SE’s first financial Administrative Board to do so on its behalf. Board met four times per financial year. year, but in any case ending no more than To perform its duties, the Supervisory three years later. Personnel Committee Board had established a Personnel ComArticle 7.3 of the Articles of Association notThe members of the Personnel Commitmittee and an Audit Committee. withstanding, the term of office of each of tee are François-Henri Pinault (Chairman), Both of these committees continue to exist, the members of the Administrative Board Jochen Zeitz and Bernd Illig. Personnel Combut are now under the Administrative Board ends at the close of the Annual General mittee meetings are scheduled to coincide following the conversion. Meeting adopting a resolution approving the with meetings of the Administrative Board. actions of the Board for the fourth finanThe Personnel Committee is responsible for clever little report 2011 P : 135 | C : 7 Management Report entering into and making changes to Managtors must be based on a corresponding recSustainability Committee ing Directors’ employment contracts and for ommendation by the Audit Committee. Once The members of the Sustainability Comestablishing policies for Human Resources the statutory auditors have been appointed mittee are Jochen Zeitz (Chairman), Franand personnel development. Issues involvby the Annual General Meeting, and the çois-Henri Pinault and Martin Köppel. It is ing the Managing Directors’ compensations audit assignment has been issued by the responsible for promoting Puma.Creative, are decided by the entire Administrative Administrative Board, the Audit CommitPuma.Safe and Puma.Peace along with the Board, based on recommendations from the tee shall work with the statutory auditors to principles of creativity, sustainability and Personnel Committee. specify the scope of the audit and the audit peace, and an awareness of the need to act areas of focus. fairly, honestly, positively and creatively in Audit Committee The statutory auditors shall attend the every decision made and every action taken. The Audit Committee is comprised of the meeting convened by the Audit Committee following members of the Administrative to review the annual financial statements Nominating Committee Board: Thore Ohlsson (Chairman), Jeanand the consolidated financial statements Only shareholder representatives serving François Palus and Bernd Illig. and shall report on the key findings of their on the Administrative Board may be memIn particular, the Audit Committee is audit, in particular material weaknesses of bers of the Nominating Committee. The responsible for accounting issues and monthe internal control and risk management Administrative Board has elected Françoisitoring the accounting process, the effecsystem relating to the accounting process. Henri Pinault (Chairman), Jochen Zeitz tiveness of the internal control system, the They shall also inform the Committee about and Grégoire Amigues to the Nominating risk management system, internal audits, other services they have provided in addiCommittee. The Nominating Committee is compliance and the audit of the financial tion to auditing services and shall confirm responsible for proposing suitable sharestatements, and especially for the required their independence. holder-candidates to the Administrative independence of the statutory auditors, Each month, the Audit Committee shall Board for its voting recommendations to the issuing the audit assignment to the statutoreceive financial data on the PUMA Group, Annual General Meeting. ry auditors, defining the audit areas of focus, which will allow the tracking of developany additional services to be performed by ments in net assets, financial position, the statutory auditors and the fee agreeresults of operations and the order books ment. on a continual basis. The Audit Committee The Chairman of the Audit Committee must shall also deal with issues relating to the be an independent shareholder representabalance sheet and income statement and tive and must have expertise in the fields of shall discuss these with Management. In accounting and auditing in accordance with addition, when the internal audit projects section 100(5) AktG. are completed, the Audit Committee shall The recommendation of the Administrative receive the audit reports, which must also Board on the selection of the statutory audiinclude any actions taken. clever little report 2011 P : 136 | C : 7 Management Report Compensation Report on the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board (until July 24, 2011) and on the Managing Directors and the Administrative Board (from July 25, 2011) Board of Management / Managing assignments and performance of a member cars and insurance premiums. In principle, junction with multi-year plans. The number Directors of the Board of Management and/or a Manall members of the Board of Management/ of stock appreciation rights issued is meaCompensation for members of the Board of aging Director, the criteria for measuring Managing Directors are equally entitled to sured as a component of total compensation, Management, which was set by the Supertotal compensation include the economic the above benefits; they are included in the based on the fair value of the stock apprevisory Board, and compensation for the situation, long-term strategic planning and base pay. ciation rights on the allotment date. A cap is Managing Directors, which is set by the related targets, the long-term durability of The bonus component of performanceprovided for to cover extraordinary, unforeAdministrative Board, consists of base-pay the results, the Company’s long-term prosrelated compensation is based mainly on the seen developments. Please refer to item 21 components and performance-based compects for success and international benchPUMA Group’s operating income and free of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial ponents. The base-pay components commark comparisons. cash flow and is staggered according to the Statements for details on the parameters prise fixed compensation and payments The base pay, which is a fixed component degree to which targets are met. The parfor specific programs. in kind, while the performance-based regardless of performance, is paid monthly ties have also agreed to an upper limit. In financial year 2011, the fixed compensacomponents are divided into bonuses and as the salary. In addition, the members of the The performance-related long-term incention for the seven members of the Board of long-term incentive components (stock Board of Management/Managing Directors tive component of compensation (stock Management and the five Managing Direcappreciation rights). Along with the job receive payments in kind, such as company appreciation rights) is always set up in contors totaled € 4.9 million (previous year: clever little report 2011 P : 137 | C : 7 Management Report € 5.9 million) and the variable performanceprovisions accordingly, provided they were in the previous year, no performance-relatadopting a resolution approving the actions based compensation totaled € 2.6 million not netted against asset values of an equal ed compensation was paid. of the members of the Administrative Board. (previous year: € 5.9 million). amount. Pension accruals totaled € 0.2 milAfter allocating the expenses to the vesting lion (previous year: € 0.1 million). Administrative Board period, the expenses for new options and In accordance with the Articles of Assofor options issued in previous years totaled Supervisory Board / ciation, each member of the Administrative € 3.8 million (previous year: € 4.7 million). Administrative Board Board receives fixed annual compensation Members of the Board of Management / the Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the of € 25.0 thousand. The fixed compensation Managing Directors were granted a total of Supervisory Board consisted of six memis increased by an additional fixed annual 129,290 options under the 2008 SOP in finanbers. In accordance with the Articles of amount of € 25.0 thousand for the Chairman cial year 2011. On the grant date, the fair valAssociation, the Administrative Board shall of the Administrative Board, € 12.5 thousand ue was € 40.15 per option. consist of at least three members; it curfor the Vice-Chairman of the Administrative The Company has taken out reinsurance rently has nine members. Compensation Board, € 10.0 thousand for each commitcoverage for existing pension commitments for the Supervisory Board / Administrative tee chairman (excluding the Nominating to members of the Board of Management/ Board consists of fixed compensation and Committee) and € 5.0 thousand for each Managing Directors. The portion of plan performance-based compensation. committee member (excluding the Nomiassets that has already been funded by the nating Committee). The pro rata temporis payment of premiums for the reinsurance Supervisory Board compensation for the financial year totals coverage is counted as a vested claim. A The fixed compensation for each individual € 122.7 thousand. contribution of € 0.4 million (previous year: member totaled € 30.0 thousand per year. In addition, each Administrative Board € 1.2 million) was made for members of the The Supervisory Board Chairman received member receives performance-based comAdministrative Board / Managing Directors twice that amount, while the Vice-Chairman pensation equal to € 20.00 for each € 0.01 by in financial year 2011. The present value of received 1.5 times that amount. Total fixed which the earnings per share figure exceeds the defined benefit commitment to Managcompensation amounted to € 126.4 thoua minimum amount of € 16.00 per share. The ing Directors of € 0.2 million on December sand on a pro rata temporis basis until July maximum performance-based compensa31, 2011 (previous year: € 5.2 million) was 24, 2011 (a total of € 225 thousand the prevition is € 10.0 thousand per year. The Chairnetted against an equivalent amount for the ous year). man of the Administrative Board receives pledged asset value of the reinsurance covPerformance-based compensation totaled twice that amount of compensation (a maxierage. The change in personnel comprising € 20.00 for each € 0.01 by which the earnmum of € 20.0 thousand), while the Vicethe Board of Management to those comings per share shown in the consolidated Chairman receives 1.5 times that amount (a prising the Managing Directors resulted in financial statements (basic EPS) exceeded a maximum of € 15.0 thousand). Because the a shift in pension liabilities from active to minimum amount of € 16.00, for a maximum EPS did not reach the minimum amount in former members on the balance-sheet date. of € 10.0 thousand per year. The Supervisory financial year 2011, no performance-related Pension obligations to former members of Board Chairman received twice that amount, compensation was paid. the Board of Management totaled € 9.4 milwhile the Vice-Chairman received 1.5 times For the year of the conversion, the compenlion (previous year: € 3.5 million) and have that amount. Because EPS did not reach the sation of the Administrative Board is subject been recorded as liabilities under pension minimum amount in financial year 2011, as to approval by the Annual General Meeting clever little report 2011 P : 138 | C : 7 Management Report Risk Management Due to the global nature of its business, opportunities and risks in annual planning enviable brand image through its innovasuccess of any business. PUMA encourages PUMA is constantly exposed to risks that discussions around the world, setting tartive and compelling brand communication. independent thinking and acting, which are must be monitored and limited. But where gets and defining courses of action based Brand image is extremely important: it can of key importance in a trust-based corpothere are risks there are also opportunion the results. The comprehensive reporthave a positive impact on consumer behavrate culture with a flat hierarchy. ties, and both must be taken into account by ing system continuously monitors and genior, but also a negative one. For example, PUMA’s human-resources strategy seeks to instituting effective risk management polierates reports on compliance with the set counterfeit products can significantly hurt ensure the long-term sustainability of this cies. targets. This enables PUMA to promptly consumer confidence in a brand and lead to successful philosophy. To achieve this goal, Monitoring and minimizing risks means identify any deviations or negative developa negative brand image. a control process is in place to detect and making the future secure, while increasments, and to initiate any necessary counThe PUMA brand’s extremely high proassess human-resources risks. Accordingly, ing globalization requires rapid responses termeasures in a timely manner. file means that product counterfeiters are special attention has been paid to talent manto a wide variety of situations. In a dynamic increasingly focusing on it. The fight against agement, the identification of key positions world where product life cycles are short, businesses are exposed to both internal and Risk areas brand piracy is one of the top priorities at PUMA. PUMA’s intellectual property team and talented individuals, as well as optimal talent placement and succession planning. external risks. Macroeconomic risks does more than just protect a major global PUMA has instituted additional national and The risk-management guidelines and orgaAs an international company, PUMA is intellectual property portfolio of tradeglobal regulations and guidelines to ensure nization at PUMA provide for methodical directly exposed to macroeconomic risks. marks, designs and patents. Its global netcompliance with legal provisions. and systematic procedures throughout the Developments in the broader economy can work of brand protection officers, external PUMA will continue to make targeted investGroup. Responsibility for risk is directly have a direct impact on consumer behavior. law firms and private investigation agencies ments in the human resources needed for assigned to operational employees; they in For example, consumer behavior may be also battles an increasing number of counparticular functions or regions in order to turn report the risks they identify by means directly impacted by political crises, changterfeit products that damage PUMA’s image meet the future requirements of its corpoof a “bottom-up” approach. This process es to the legal framework and social influand sales. rate strategy. ensures that risks are quickly and flexibly ences. In order to effectively confront product identified and forwarded to the Risk ManPUMA counters these risks through geopiracy, PUMA also works closely with cusProcurement risks agement Committee (RMC). Risk managers graphic diversification and a balanced prodtoms and other law-enforcement authoriMost products are produced in the emergprovide information about major changes in uct portfolio whose creativity sets it apart ties around the world and provides input ing markets of Asia. Production in these the risk portfolio in the form of periodic and from the competition. regarding the implementation of effective countries is associated with various risks. ad-hoc reports. laws to protect intellectual property. For example, certain risks may result from PUMA’s Group-wide internal audits and its Brand image factors such as fluctuations in exchange comprehensive reporting and controlling As a branded consumer products company, Personnel risks rates, changes in taxes and customs duties, system are essential components of its risk PUMA is well aware of the importance of a The creativity, commitment and perfortrade restrictions, natural disasters and management approach. Managers analyze strong brand image. PUMA has created an mance of its employees are crucial to the political instability. Risks may also result clever little report 2011 P : 139 | C : 7 Management Report from an overdependence on individual manAdditionally, on the sales side, PUMA is purAs PUMA evolves, its organizational strucinto the functional currencies of the Group ufacturers. suing a selective distribution strategy in ture is becoming more complex. To keep companies. The portfolio is regularly reviewed and order to maintain a distinctive brand identity pace with this development, the Company adjusted to avoid creating a dependence on and reduce dependence on particular distrihas developed an integrated IT, logistics For the presentation of market risks, IFRS 7 individual suppliers and procurement marbution channels. The expansion of the Comand human resources infrastructure. In requires sensitivity analyses that show the kets. In order to ensure that the necessary pany’s own retail outlets is also intended to addition, business processes will need to be effects of hypothetical changes in relevant future production capacity will be available, ensure that PUMA products are presented continually optimized and adjusted as the risk variables on net income and on equiframework agreements are generally conexclusively in PUMA’s preferred brand enviCompany grows. ty. The periodic effects are determined by cluded for extended periods. ronment. applying the hypothetical changes in these Applying the principles of sustainable develCurrency risks risk variables to the portfolio of financial opment, the PUMA.Safe team was founded Retail As an international company, PUMA is subinstruments as of the reporting date. The years ago to optimally integrate environExpansion through Company-owned retail ject to currency risks resulting from the disportfolio as of the reporting date is assumed mental protection and social responsibiloutlets also means investing to expand parity between the respective amounts of to be representative for the entire year. ity into PUMA’s core business areas and to existing stores and opening new ones, currency used on the purchasing and sales Currency risks as defined by IFRS 7 arise reconcile these two pillars of sustainable accepting higher fixed costs compared to sides and from currency fluctuations. from financial instruments of a monetary development with economic development. selling via wholesalers, and entering into PUMA’s biggest procurement market is nature that are denominated in a differlong-term leases – all of which can have a Asia, where most payments are settled ent currency from the functional currency; Product and market environment negative impact on profitability if business in USD, while sales are mostly invoiced in exchange-rate differences arising from the Recognizing and taking advantage of reldeclines. On the other hand, extending the other currencies. PUMA manages currency translation of separate financial statements evant consumer trends early on is key to value chain can deliver higher gross marrisk in accordance with internal guidelines. into the Group currency are not taken into avoiding the risk posed by market-specific gins and better control over distribution. Currency forward contracts are used to account. In principle, all non-functional product influences, in particular the risk In addition, PUMA-owned retail stores can hedge existing and future financial liabilicurrencies in which PUMA uses financial of substitutability in the increasingly comdeliver the PUMA brand experience directly ties denominated in foreign currencies. instruments are considered relevant risk petitive lifestyle market. Continuous develto the end consumer. To hedge signed or pending contracts variables. opment and implementation of new and To avoid risks and to take advantage of against currency risk, PUMA only concludes innovative concepts are needed to adjust opportunities, PUMA performs in-depth currency forward contracts at customary The currency sensitivity analyses are based to continually shortening lifecycles. Only location and profitability analyses before market terms with reputable international on the following assumptions: those companies that identify these trends making investment decisions. The Comfinancial institutions and PPR Finance SNC. Major non-derivative monetary financial at an early stage will be able to gain an edge pany’s strong controlling/key performance As of the end of 2011, the net requirements instruments (cash and cash equivalents, over their competitors. indicator system lets it detect negative for the 2012 planning period were adequatereceivables, interest-bearing liabilities, PUMA’s heavy investment in product design trends at an early stage and take the counly hedged against currency effects. finance lease payables and non-interestand development ensures that the chartermeasures required to properly manage Foreign exchange risks may also arise from bearing liabilities) are either directly denomacteristic PUMA design and the targeted the individual stores. intra-group loans granted for financing inated in the functional currency or are condiversification of the entire product range purposes. Currency swaps and currency verted into the functional currency through are consistent with the overall brand stratOrganizational challenges forward transactions are used to hedge the use of currency forward contracts. egy, thereby creating a unique level of brand PUMA’s decentralized virtual organization currency risks when converting intra-group Changes in exchange rates therefore genrecognition. supports the Company’s global orientation. loans denominated in foreign currencies erally do not have any effect on net income. clever little report 2011 P : 140 | C : 7 Management Report The currency forward contracts to hedge Liquidity risk against fluctuations in payments resulting A liquidity reserve in the form of credit lines from changes in exchange rates are part of and cash and cash equivalents is maintaian effective cash flow hedging relationship ned in order to ensure solvency and financipursuant to IAS 39. Changes in the exchange al flexibility. Credit lines are generally made rates of the currencies underlying these available until further notice. transactions have an effect on the hedging reserve in equity and on the fair value of Capital risk these hedge transactions. In spite of the global financial crisis, there are no significant capital risks given that If the USD had appreciated (depreciated) PUMA maintains a high equity ratio. by 10% against all other currencies on December 31, 2011, the hedging reserve Risk of corporate misconduct in equity and the fair value of the hedges Acts of misconduct such as theft, fraud, would have been € 57.0 million higher breach of trust, embezzlement and corrup(lower) (December 31, 2010: € 51.5 million tion, as well as deliberate misrepresentahigher (lower)). tions in financial reporting, may lead to significant material and reputational damage. Interest rate risks PUMA makes use of various tools to manaAt PUMA, changes in interest rates do not ge these risks. They include the corporate have a significant impact on interest rate governance system, the internal control sensitivity and therefore do not require the system, Group controlling and the internal use of interest rate hedging instruments. audit department. In addition, a Group-wide integrity hotline for reporting unethical, Default risks unlawful and criminal activity was set up in Because of its business activities and ope2010. rating business, PUMA is exposed to default risk, which is managed by continuously Summary monitoring outstanding receivables and PUMA’s risk management system allows the recognizing impairment losses, where Company to fulfill the legal requirements appropriate. pertaining to corporate control and transThe default risk is limited by credit insuparency. The Management believes that in rance and the maximum default risk is an overall evaluation of the Company’s risk reflected by the carrying amounts of the situation, risk is limited and manageable financial assets recognized on the balance and poses no threat to the continued viabilisheet. ty of the PUMA Group. clever little report 2011 P : 141 | C : 7 Management Report Main features of the internal control and risk management system as it relates to the Group’s accounting process process so that it can analyze and evaluate the resulting risks and take the necessary actions to counter them. In preparing the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report, it is sometimes necessary to make assumptions and estimates that are based on the information available on the balancesheet date and which will affect the amounts of the assets and liabilities, income and PUMA SE’s Managing Directors are responrisk management system covering the conauthorization guidelines, a Code of Conduct expenses and contingent liabilities that are sible for the preparation and accuracy of the solidated financial statements and the disand a Code of Ethics, a clear separation of reported, as well as how these are classiConsolidated Financial Statements and the closures in the Group management report. functions within the Company and the dualfied. Group Management Report. The consolidatThe control and risk management system is control principle. The adequacy and operThe Administrative Board’s Audit Commited financial statements were prepared in designed to ensure the compliance and reliating effectiveness of these measures are tee meets regularly with the independent, accordance with the International Financial ability of the internal and external accountregularly reviewed in internal audits. statutory auditors, the Managing Directors Reporting Standards that apply in the EU ing records, the presentation and accuracy PUMA has a group-wide reporting and conand the internal audit department to disand the requirements of the German Comof the consolidated financial statements trolling system that allows it to regularly and cuss the results of the statutory audits of mercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock and the Group management report and the promptly detect deviations from projected the financial statements and the internal Corporation Act (AktG). Certain disclosures disclosures contained therein. The interfigures and accounting irregularities and, audits with respect to the internal control and amounts are based on current estinal control and risk management system where necessary, to take countermeasures. and risk management system as it relates to mates by management. is based on a series of process-integrated The risk management system can reguthe accounting process. The statutory audiThe Company’s Managing Directors are monitoring steps and encompasses the larly, as well as on an ad-hoc basis, identors attend the Administrative Board meetresponsible for maintaining and regularly measures necessary to accomplish these, tify events that could affect the Company’s ing held to discuss the year-end in order to monitoring a suitable internal control and internal instructions, organizational and economic performance and its accounting report on the annual financial statements. clever little report 2011 P : 142 | C : 7 Management Report Disclosures pursuant to Section 315(4) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) Section 315(4)(1) HGB one or several Managing Director(s). It may istrative Board is authorized until April 10, On the balance-sheet date, subscribed appoint one of these Managing Directors 2012 to raise capital as follows: capital totaled € 38.6 million and was as Chief Executive Officer and one or two divided into 15,082,464 no-par-value as Deputy Chief Executive Officers. Pursu> B y issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of shares. As of the balance-sheet date, the ant to section 9(1) c (ii) of the SE Regulation new shares on one or more occasions in Company held 147,831 treasury shares. (SE-VO), the requirements for changing the exchange for cash contributions. ShareArticles of Incorporation are governed by holders have in principle subscription Section 315(4)(3) HGB sections 133 and 179 of the German Stock rights whereby such subscription rights As already announced on August 8, 2011, Corporation Act (AktG). may be barred to avoid fractional shares SAPARDIS S.E. (formerly SAPARDIS S.A.), a (Subscribed Capital I). wholly owned subsidiary of PPR S.A., Paris, Section 315(4)(7) HGB has notified us that its share of PUMA SE In a resolution adopted by the Annual Genand voting rights exceeded the 75% threshold eral Meeting on April 20, 2010, the Comon August 3, 2011. pany was authorized until April 19, 2015 to > B y issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of acquire treasury shares equal to up to 10% new shares on one or more occasions in Section 315(4)(6) HGB of its share capital. The Company is authoexchange for cash contributions or conRegarding the appointment and dismissal rized to buy back treasury shares for any tributions in kind, whereby the shareof Managing Directors, reference is made permissible purpose, including the ability to holders’ subscription rights may be to the applicable statutory requirements of exercise flexible control over the Company’s wholly or partially barred (Subscribed section 40 of the German SE Implementation capital requirements. Capital II). Act (SEAG). In addition, Article 13(1) of PUMA For more details, please refer to the releSE’s Articles of Incorporation stipulates Pursuant to Articles 4(3) and 4(4) of PUMA vant disclosures in the Notes to the consolithat the Administrative Board shall appoint SE’s Articles of Incorporation, the Admindated financial statements. clever little report 2011 P : 143 | C : 7 Management Report Outlook Global economic situation 2011 and significantly lower than the prequently, higher operating expenses are off now and in the years to come. ManageAccording to the Kiel Institute’s winter forevious year’s level. A somewhat stronger expected and planned for in each of the next ment therefore believes that it has laid the cast for the World Economy (IfW) published increase in global GDP of 4.0% is expected two years. Assuming only moderate increfoundation for the Company’s positive longon December 20, 2011, the world economy for 2013. ases in procurement prices, management term development. was reeling from the sovereign debt criexpects to see increases in net earnings in sis in the Euro zone, uncertainty over the Outlook the mid-single-digit range in financial years Relationships with condition of the financial industry, risks Despite the tough global economic situation, 2012 and 2013. affiliated companies and uncertainties relating to the economic PUMA nevertheless managed to achieve its PUMA SE is a dependent company of debate in the United States and the surprisales target of € 3 billion and to increase net Investments SAPARDIS S.E. (formerly SAPARDIS S.A.), singly weak dynamic in the emerging marearnings in 2011. Having reached this milesInvestments of € 80 million are planned for Paris, a wholly owned subsidiary of PPR kets at the end of 2011. tone, the Company has successfully laid the 2012, mostly for infrastructure, in order to S.A., Paris, pursuant to Section 17 of the Provided that the crisis of confidence does groundwork for further implementation of meet operating requirements for the planGerman Stock Corporation Act (AktG). The not further deteriorate, experts expect its long-term strategic planning. ned growth in sales as well as to expand our Managing Directors have prepared a report growth in production in the advanced ecocore markets and to make selective investon relationships with affiliated companies – nomies over the coming year to be slow PUMA is very confident about financial year ments in retail businesses. Dependency Report – pursuant to Section because, given that many countries still 2012, during which several major sporting In addition, current purchase price liabili312 AktG. have very high budget deficits and at best events will be held. In particular, the UEFA ties from acquisitions of business enterpriThe following statement was given at the high and rapidly growing debt levels as well European Football (Soccer) Championship ses will probably result in a cash outflow of end of the Managing Directors’ Dependenas extremely low interest rates, the options in Poland and Ukraine and the Summer € 93.6 million in 2012. cy Report: “Based on circumstances about available to economic policymakers are Olympics in London will provide an excellent which the Managing Directors were aware limited. Emerging economies are expected platform for presenting the PUMA brand to Foundation for long-term growth on the date on which the transactions listed to see faster expansion, because in genea big audience of enthusiastic sports fans, As part of our “Back on the Attack“ growth in the report on relationships with affiliated ral they have room to maneuver in terms thereby further boosting brand growth. strategy, management has established companies took place, PUMA SE received of monetary and financial policy and thus strategic priorities until 2015. Action plans appropriate consideration in every case. will be able to counter domestic economic Management believes that PUMA will achieare being implemented in a targeted, valueDuring the period under review, no actions downturns. ve increases in sales in the upper singleoriented manner. Despite expected increathat were taken or not taken were subject to According to current forecasts, global digit range in each of the next two years. ses in salaries and commodity prices and a legal disclosure requirement.” gross domestic product (“GDP”) will only This will involve continued investments to strong competition, PUMA’s strong equity increase by 3.4% in 2012 and therefore will optimize business processes and to focus ratio and high level of liquidity, as well as the be below the projected GDP of 3.8% for on expanding our core markets. Conseactions it has taken, should continue to pay clever little report 2011 P : 144 | C : 7 Management Report Other events Responsibility Statement Following the cancellation of the arbitratiRegarding the Affirmation pursuant to on award by the regional court of Madrid in section 315(1)(6) of the German CommerJune 2011 concerning the legal dispute with cial Code (HGB) (Responsibility Statement/ former Spanish licensee Estudio 2000, new Bilanzeid), please refer to the Notes. arbitration proceedings were opened before the end of 2011. In these proceedings, PUMA has applied for the remaining “PUMA” brand rights to be transferred to PUMA without Herzogenaurach, February 6, 2012 payment and to entirely reject the claims by Estudio 2000. Accordingly, PUMA after having discussed these matters intensively Managing Directors with the concerned law offices, assesses the risk to being condemned to a substantial monetary payment to Estudio 2000 as remote and is convinced to prevail in the Koch Bauer Caroti Seiz Bertone arbitration proceedings to the extent that we expect to get the Spanish “PUMA” trademarks from Estudio 2000 in the course of the proceedings without further consideration. Events after the balance-sheet date As already published on May 20, 2011, in January 2012, PUMA acquired the remaining 49.9% of the shares of its Dutch licensee, Dobotex, which develops and sells socks and body wear under the PUMA brand. As of the balance-sheet date, the purchase price for the shares was already included under current liabilities from acquisitions. There were no further events after the balance-sheet date that could have a material impact on the net assets, financial position or results of operations. clever little report 2011 P : 145 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT FICIAL OF COnsolidated financial statements REP ORT chapter: Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 147 Consolidated Income Statement 148 8 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 149 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 150 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 151 Changes in Fixed Assets 2010 152 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 153 Independent Statutory Auditor‘s Report 187 P : 147 | C : 8 Consolidated Financial Statements T.1 COnsolidated Statement of Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2010 COnsolidated Statement of Dec. 31. 2011 Dec. 31. 2010 Financial Position Notes € million € million Financial Position Notes € million € million ASSETS LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS‘ EQUITY Cash and cash equivalents 4 448.2 479.6 Current bank liabilities 14 35.1 42.8 Inventories 5 536.8 439.7 Trade payables 14 431.4 344.3 Trade receivables 6 533.1 447.0 Liabilities from income taxes 14 12.3 18.1 Income tax receivables 17 72.6 80.8 Tax provisions 17 70.3 106.9 Other current financial assets 7 44.8 25.9 Other current provisions 18 43.8 71.9 Other current assets 8 79.0 74.2 Liabilities from acquisitions 19 93.6 55.7 Current assets 1,714.5 1,547.2 Other current financial liabilities 14 56.4 58.8 Other current liabilities 14 96.4 100.5 Deferred taxes 9 109.1 96.5 Current liabilities 839.2 799.0 Property, plant and equipment 10 234.9 236.7 Intangible assets 11 452.2 423.4 Deferred taxes 9 63.6 50.7 Investments in associates 12 24.8 23.9 Pension provisions 16 29.8 26.1 Other non-current financial assets 13 18.9 17.9 Other non-current provisions 18 26.3 12.2 Other non-current assets 13 27.4 21.0 Liabilities from acquisitions 19 6.8 81.9 Non-current assets 867.3 819.4 Other non-current financial liabilities 14 0.3 6.7 Other non-current liabilities 14 10.6 3.6 Non-current liabilities 137.5 181.2 Subscribed capital 38.6 38.6 Group reserves 281.2 256.8 Retained earnings 1,317.3 1,114.0 Treasury stock -32.6 -23.2 Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent 1,604.5 1,386.2 Non-controlling interest 0.7 0.2 Shareholders‘ equity 20 1.605.2 1.386.4 Total assets 2,581.8 2,366.6 Total liabilities and shareholders‘ equity 2,581.8 2,366.6 clever little report 2011 P : 148 | C : 8 Consolidated Financial Statements T.2 COnsolidated Income Statement 2011 2010 Notes € million €million Sales 27 3,009.0 2,706.4 Cost of sales 27 -1,515.6 -1,361.6 Gross profit 27 1,493.4 1,344.8 Royalty and commission income 17.6 19.1 Other operating income and expenses 22 -1,177.8 -1,057.1 Operational result (EBIT) 333.2 306.8 Income from associated companies 23 1.1 1.8 Financial income 23 5.2 4.4 Financial expenses 23 -19.1 -11.5 Financial result -12.8 -5.3 Earnings before tax (EBT) 320.4 301.5 Taxes on income 24 -90.0 -99.3 Consolidated net earnings for the year 230.4 202.2 Net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 20 -0.3 0.0 Net earnings attributable to E  quity holders of the parent 230.1 202.2 (net earnings) Earnings per share, in € 25 15.36 13.45 Earnings per share, in €, diluted 25 15.36 13.37 Weighted average shares outstanding (million) 25 14.981 15.031 Weighted average shares outstanding, diluted (million) 25 14.985 15.123 clever little report 2011 P : 149 | C : 8 Consolidated Financial Statements T.3 After tax Tax impact Before tax After tax Tax impact Before tax COnsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 € million € million € million € million € million € million Net earnings before attribution 230.4 230.4 202.2 202.2 Unrecognized net actuarial gain/loss -2.8 1.0 -3.8 -0.3 0.3 -0.6 Currency changes 6.4 -1.5 7.9 91.3 6.1 85.2 Cash flow hedge Release to the income statement 11.1 -5.5 16.6 13.6 -6.3 19.9 Market value for cash flow hedges 19.8 -7.0 26.8 -11.1 5.5 -16.7 Share in the other comprehensive income of at equity accounted investments 0.7 0.7 0.2 0.2 Other result 35.2 -13.0 48.2 93.6 5.6 88.0 Comprehensive income 265.6 -13.0 278.6 295.8 5.6 290.2 attributable to: Non-controlling interest 0.4 0.4 0.0 0.0 Equity holders of the parent 265.2 -13.0 278.3 295.8 5.6 290.2 clever little report 2011 P : 150 | C : 8 Consolidated Financial Statements T.4 COnsolidated statement of cash flows 2011 2010 2011 2010 Notes € million € million Notes € million € million Operating activities Investing activities Earnings before tax (EBT) 320.4 301.5 Payment for acquisitions 3 -44.2 -108.4 Adjustments for: Purchase of property and equipment 10, 11 -71.1 -55.2 Depreciation 10, 11 63.4 65.9 Proceeds from sale of property and equipment 2.6 8.8 Non-realized currency gains/losses, net 0.3 -1.2 Changes in other non-current assets 13 -2.5 -1.9 Income from associated companies 12 -1.1 -1.8 Interest received 23 5.2 4.4 Financial income 23 -5.2 -4.4 Cash outflow from investing activities -110.0 -152.3 Financial expenses 23 19.1 11.5 Changes from the sale of fixed assets 0.2 -2.4 Financing activities Changes to pension accruals 16 -1.5 -1.5 Changes in non-current liabilities 14 -0.3 2.8 Other cash effected expenses/incomes -13.9 -9.2 Changes in bank liabilities 14 -5.1 -6.5 Gross cash flow 28 381.5 358.4 Dividend payment 20 -26.8 -27.1 Changes in receivables and other current assets 6, 7, 8 -96.7 -111.3 Purchase of treasury stock 20 -26.6 -23.4 Changes in inventories 5 -97.2 -53.1 Cash outflow from financing activities 28 -58.8 -54.2 Exchange rate-related changes in cash flow 10.7 31.1 Changes in in trade payables and other current liabilities 14 88.0 67.4 Change in cash and cash equivalents -31.4 -6.0 Cash inflow from operating activities 275.6 261.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the begining of the financial year 479.6 485.6 Interest paid 23 -7.2 -5.9 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 4, 28 448.2 479.6 Income taxes paid -141.6 -86.1 Net cash from operating activities 28 126.8 169.4 clever little report 2011 P : 151 | C : 8 Consolidated Financial Statements T.5 Subscribed Reserves RetainedTreasury Equity Non-controlling Total COnsolidated Statement capital Capital Revenue Difference Cash flow At-Equity earnings* stock before interests equity of changes in equity reserve reserves from currency Hedges accounted non-controlling conversion investments interests in € million Dec. 31, 2009 adjusted * 38.6 190.6 69.5 -91.3 -13.6 939.3 1,133.2 0.1 1,133.3 Net earnings 202.2 202.2 0.0 202.2 Actuarial gain/loss from pension commitments -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 Currency changes/Other 91.3 0.2 91.5 0.0 91.5 Release to the income statement 13.6 13.6 13.6 Market valuation of cash flows -hedges -11.1 -11.1 -11.1 Total comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 0.0 91.3 2.4 0.2 201.9 295.8 0.0 295.8 Dividend payment -27.1 -27.1 -27.1 Valuation from option programs 7.6 7.6 7.6 Purchase of treasury stock -23.4 -23.4 -23.4 Conversion of options 0.1 0.1 0.1 Dec. 31, 2010 38.6 198.2 69.5 0.0 -11.1 0.2 1,114.0 -23.2 1,386.2 0.2 1,386.4 Net earnings 230.1 230.1 0.3 230.4 Actuarial gain/loss from pension commitments -2.8 0.0 -2.8 -2.8 Currency changes/Other 6.4 0.6 7.0 0.1 7.0 Release to the income statement 11.1 11.1 11.1 Market valuation of cash flowshedges 19.8 19.8 19.8 Total comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 -2.8 6.4 30.9 0.6 230.1 265.2 0.4 265.6 Dividend payment -26.8 -26.8 -26.8 Valuation from option programs 6.5 6.5 6.5 Purchase of treasury stock -26.6 -26.6 -26.6 Conversion of options -17.3 17.3 0.0 0.0 Changes in the group of consolidated companies 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 Dec. 31, 2011 38.6 187.6 66.7 6.4 19.8 0.8 1,317.3 -32.6 1,604.5 0.7 1,605.2 * adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8. see paragraph 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2010 clever little report 2011 P : 152 | C : 8 appendix to the notes to the consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Purchase costs Accumulated depreciation / amortization Carrying amounts T.6 as of Currency Additions/ Changes from Disposals as of as of Currency Additions/ Changes from Disposals as of as of as of Changes in Fixed Assets 2010 Jan. 1. 2010 changes and retransfers acquisitions Dec. 31, 2010 Jan. 1. 2010 changes and retransfers2 acquisitions Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2009 € million other changes € million € million other changes € million € million € million PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land rights and buildings including buildings on third party land 167.5 5.3 6.7 -9.3 170.2 -29.5 -0.7 -8.3 6.1 -32.4 137.8 138.0 Technical equipment and machines 11.3 0.2 -3.7 -0.4 7.4 -6.5 -0.1 2.2 0.3 -4.1 3.3 4.8 Other equipment, factory and office equipment 264.0 19.0 33.3 0.1 -30.2 286.2 -165.9 -11.5 -47.6 28.2 -196.8 89.4 98.1 Payments on account and assets under construction 1.9 0.1 4.5 -0.2 6.3 -0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.0 6.3 1.9 444.6 24.6 40.8 0.1 -40.1 470.0 -201.9 -12.3 -53.7 34.6 -233.3 236.7 242.7 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill 1 288.7 18.2 3.1 2.5 -10.9 301.6 -19.0 -0.9 0.0 0.0 -19.9 281.7 269.7 Intangible fixed assets with an indefinite useful life 0.0 106.8 106.8 0.0 0.0 106.8 0.0 Other intangible fixed assets 69.3 2.9 14.5 5.8 -2.7 89.8 -42.7 -1.7 -12.3 1.8 -54.9 34.9 26.6 358.0 21.1 17.6 115.1 -13.6 498.2 -61.7 -2.6 -12.3 1.8 -74.8 423.4 296.3 Purchase costs Accumulated depreciation / amortization Carrying amounts as of Currency Additions/ Changes from Disposals as of as of Currency Additions/ Changes from Disposals as of as of as of Changes in Fixed Assets 2011 Jan. 1. 2010 changes and retransfers acquisitions Dec. 31, 2011 Jan. 1. 2011 changes and retransfers3 acquisitions Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2011 € million other changes € million € million other changes € million € million € million PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land rights and buildings including buildings on third party land 170.2 1.3 1.8 -1.0 172.3 -32.4 -0.2 -6.9 0.7 -38.8 133.5 137.8 Technical equipment and machines 7.4 -0.3 2.6 0.0 9.7 -4.1 1.0 -1.3 -4.4 5.3 3.3 Other equipment, factory and office equipment 286.2 1.8 48.4 -32.3 304.1 -196.8 -1.3 -42.6 30.2 -210.5 93.6 89.4 Payments on account and assets under construction 6.3 -0.1 -2.1 -1.5 2.6 0.0 0.0 2.5 6.3 470.0 2.7 50.7 -34.8 488.7 -233.3 -0.5 -50.8 30.9 -253.7 234.9 236.7 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill 301.6 4.5 11.8 1.5 -0.1 319.3 -19.9 -0.2 -0.2 -20.3 299.0 281.7 Intangible fixed assets with an indefinite useful life 106.8 3.1 109.9 0.0 109.9 106.8 Other intangible fixed assets 89.8 -2.8 21.0 -3.5 104.5 -54.9 2.8 -12.3 3.2 -61.2 43.3 34.9 498.2 4.8 32.8 1.5 -3.6 533.7 -74.8 2.6 -12.5 3.2 -81.5 452.2 423.4 1. adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8 as of December 31, 2009/ January 1, 2010, see chapter 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2010 2. including impairment for fixed assets (€ 9.6 million) and intangible assets (€ 1.2 million) 3. including impairment for fixed assets (€ 5.4 million) and intangible assets (€ 0.7 million), see chapters 10 and 11 clever little report 2011 P : 153 | C : 8 Notes to the The following new and amended standards and interpretations have been used for the first time in the current financial year: Consolidated T.7 Standard Title First-time adoption in the current financial year Financial IAS 24 R Amendment IAS 32 Amendment IFRIC 14 Related party disclosures Financial instruments: disclosures Voluntary prepaid contributions under a minimum funding requirement Statements 1. General IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments Of the standards and interpretations to be newly applied as of January 1, 2011, only IAS 24 Under the ‘PUMA' brand name, PUMA SE and its subsidiaries are engaged in the developR (related party disclosures) was of relevance to PUMA SE. IAS 24 R includes a revised ment and sale of a broad range of sports and sports lifestyle products, including footwear, definition of related parties and makes it clear that information on pending contracts is also apparel and accessories. With registration in the commercial register on July 25, 2011, the required. None of the remaining standards and interpretations to be mandatorily applied former PUMA Aktiengesellschaft Rudolf Dassler Sport was converted into a European had any effect on the consolidated financial statements. stock corporation (Societas Europaea/SE). The registered office of PUMA SE is in Herzogenaurach, Federal Republic of Germany. The competent registry court is in Fürth (Bavaria). The consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE and its subsidiaries (hereinafter shortly referred to as the “Company” or “PUMA”) were prepared in accordance with the “International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)” accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as they are to be applied in the EU, and the supplementary accounting principles to be applied in accordance with Section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, HGB). The IASB standards and interpretations as endorsed by the EU that are mandatory for financial years as of January 1, 2011 have been applied. clever little report 2011 P : 154 | C : 8 Financial Statements The following standards and interpretations have been released, but will only take effect in No assessment can yet be undertaken with respect to the effects of the first-time applicalater reporting periods and are not applied earlier by the Company: tion of IFRS 9, IFRS 10 and IFRS 13 as detailed analyses are still being presently conducted. The Company does not anticipate the remaining standards mentioned above to have a sigT.8 Standard Title Date of first-time Planned nificant impact on accounting. adoption* adoption The consolidated financial statements are prepared in Euros (EUR or €). Amounts being Endorsed shown in millions of Euros with one decimal place may lead to rounding differences since Amendment IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures 07/01/2011 01/01/2012 the calculation of individual items is based on figures presented in thousands. The cost of sales method is used for the income statement. Endorsement pending Amendment IAS 1 Presentation of items of other com07/01/2012 As already published on August 8, 2011, SAPARDIS S.E. (formerly SAPARDIS S.A.), a fully 01/01/2013 owned subsidiary of PPR S.A., Paris, has informed us that its percentage share of voting prehensive income Amendment IAS 12 Deferred taxes: recovery of underly01/01/2012 01/01/2012 rights in PUMA SE exceeded the 75% threshold on August 3, 2011. Consequently, the PPR ing assets Group holds a qualified majority stake in PUMA SE. Accordingly, PUMA SE and its affiliAmendment IAS 19 Changes regarding defined benefit 01/01/2013 01/01/2013 ated companies are included in the PPR consolidated financial statements. These financial plans statements may be obtained from PPR upon request. Amendmen IFRS 1 Severe hyperinflation and removal of 07/01/2011 01/01/2012 fixed dates IAS 27 Individual financial statements 01/01/2013 01/01/2013 2. Significant Consolidation, Accounting and Valuation Principles IAS 28 Holdings in associated companies 01/01/2013 01/01/2013 Consolidation Principles The consolidated financial statements were prepared as of IFRS 9 Financial instruments 01/01/2015 01/01/2015 December 31, 2011, the reporting date of the annual financial statements of the PUMA SE parent company, on the basis of uniform accounting and valuation principles according to IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 01/01/2013 01/01/2013 IFRS, as applied in the EU. IFRS 11 Joint agreements 01/01/2013 01/01/2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interest in other 01/01/2013 01/01/2013 The capital consolidation of the subsidiaries acquired after January 1, 2005 is based on the companies acquisition method. Upon initial consolidation, the assets, debts and contingent liabilities IFRS 13 01/01/2013 01/01/2013 Fair value measurement that can be identified as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value as of the acquisition date, regardless of the non-controlling interests (previously referred to as IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production 01/01/2013 01/01/2013 phase of a mine minority interest). At the time of the acquisition, there is a separately exercisable right to vote on whether the interests of the non-controlling shareholders are valued at fair value or at proportional net asset value. * Adjusted by EU endorsement, if applicable The surplus of the acquisition costs arising from the purchase that exceeds the Group’s share in the net assets stated at fair value is reported as goodwill. If the acquisition costs are lower than the amount of the net assets stated at fair value, the difference is reported directly in the income statement. Pursuant to the contractual arrangement with the joint venture partners, PUMA is the benclever little report 2011 P : 155 | C : 8 Financial Statements eficial owner of some controlling interests. The companies are fully included in the consoliThe changes in the number of group companies were as follows: dated financial statements and, therefore, non-controlling interests are not disclosed. The present value of the capital shares attributable to the non-controlling shareholders and the present value of the residual purchase prices expected due to corporate performance are T.9 included in the capital consolidation as acquisition costs for the holdings. If there are any subsequent deviations, for acquisitions before January 1, 2010, these lead to a subsequent 2010 112 adjustment of the acquisition costs not affecting income. For business combinations after Formation and acquisition of companies 5 January 1, 2010, the costs that can be directly allocated to the acquisition as well as subseDisposal of companies 2 quent deviations in the present value of expected residual purchase prices are recognized 2011 115 in the income statement pursuant to the application of the amended IFRS 3 R. With respect to the remaining controlling interests, losses attributable to non-controlling interests are allocated to the latter in an amount up to the non-controlling shareholder’s The following changes occurred within the group of consolidated companies in financial capital interest provided that there is no contractual obligation to make an additional capiyear 2011: tal contribution. In financial year 2011, PUMA Wheat Accessories, LLC, with its registered office in Delaware, USA, was formed and started its operations in April 2011. The company is engaged in the Receivables within the group are offset against internal liabilities. As a general rule, any development and sale of PUMA brand accessories. The PUMA Group holds a 51% stake. set-off differences arising from exchange rate fluctuations are recognized in the income The company has thus expanded the group of consolidated companies and is fully consolistatement to the extent that they accrued during the reporting period. If receivables and dated and the non-controlling interests are disclosed. liabilities are long-term and capital-replacing in nature, the currency difference is recogEffective as of August 1, 2011, PUMA acquired a 51% interest in Janed, LLC, with its regisnized directly in equity. tered seat in Delaware, USA. The company is engaged in the development and sale of PUMA In the course of the expense and income consolidation, intercompany sales and intra-group socks and bodywear. The company has thus extended the group of consolidated companies income are generally offset against the expenses attributable to them. Interim profits not and is fully consolidated and the non-controlling interests are disclosed. yet realized within the group as well as intra-group investment income are eliminated by The group of consolidated companies was further extended by the formation of companies crediting them in the income statement. in Spain, Peru and China. Disposals in the group of consolidated companies concern the liquidation of the inactive companies World Cat (S) Pte Ltd. in Singapore and World Cat Group of Consolidated Companies In addition to PUMA SE, all subsidiaries in which PUMA SE Trading Co. Ltd. in Taiwan. holds, directly or indirectly, the majority of the voting rights or whose financial and busiThe group of consolidated companies has been adjusted accordingly. The effect of acquisiness policies are controlled by the Group are fully consolidated in the consolidated financial tions of business enterprises on the net assets, financial position and results of operations statements. Associated companies are accounted for in the Group using the equity method. are illustrated under Item 3 (“Business Combination”) of these Notes. PUMA Vertrieb GmbH, PUMA Avanti GmbH, PUMA Mostro GmbH and PUMA Sprint GmbH have made use of the exemption under § 264 (3) of the HGB. clever little report 2011 P : 156 | C : 8 Financial Statements 27. PUMA Hellas S.A. Greece Athens direct 100% 1) T.10 The Group companies are allocated to regions as follows: 28. PUMA Cyprus Ltd. Cyprus Nikosia direct 100% 1) 29. PUMA Hungary Kft. Hungary Budapest indirect 100% No Companies Country City ShareShare in holder capital 30. Tretorn R&D Ltd. Ireland Dublin indirect 100% 31. PUMA Italia S.r.l. Italy Milan indirect 100% Parent company 32. Dobotex Italia S.r.l. Italy Milan indirect 100% 1) 1. PUMA SE Germany Herzogenaurach 33. PUMA Baltic UAB Lithuani Vilnius indirect 100% 34. PUMA Malta Ltd Malta St.Julians indirect 100% EMEA 35. PUMA Blue Sea Ltd Malta St.Julians indirect 100% 2. Austria PUMA Dassler Ges. m.b.H. Austria Salzburg direct 100% 36. PUMA Racing Ltd Malta St.Julians indirect 100% 3. Dobotex Austria GmbH Austria Salzburg indirect 100% 1) 37. PUMA Benelux B.V. The Netherlands Leusden direct 100% 4. Wilderness Holdings Ltd. Botswana Maun direct 20,1% 38. Dobotex International BV The Netherlands Tilburg direct 100% 1) 5. PUMA Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria Sofia indirect 100% 39. Dobotex BV The Netherlands s-Hertogenbosch indirect 100% 1) 6. PUMA Sport Hrvatska d.o.o. Croatia Zagreb indirect 100% 40. Dobo Logic BV The Netherlands Tilburg indirect 100% 1) 7. PUMA Czech Republic s.r.o. Chech Republic Prague indirect 100% 41. Dobo NexTH BV The Netherlands s-Hertogenbosch indirect 100% 1) 8. PUMA Denmark A/S Denmark Skanderborg indirect 100% 42. PUMA Norway AS Norway Oslo indirect 100% 9. PUMA Estonia OU Estonia Tallinn indirect 100% 43. Tretorn Norway AS Norway Oslo indirect 100% 10. PUMA Finland Oy Finland Espoo indirect 100% 44. Brandon AS Norway Oslo indirect 100% 11. Tretorn Finland Oy Finland Espoo indirect 100% 45. PUMA Polska Spolka z.o.o. Poland Warsaw indirect 100% 12. Brandon Oy Finland Helsinki indirect 100% 46. PUMA Portugal Artigos Desportivos Lda. Portugal Miraflores indirect 100% 13. PUMA FRANCE SAS France Illkirch indirect 100% 47. PUMA Sport Romania s.r.l. Romania Bucharest indirect 100% 14. PUMA Speedcat SAS France Illkirch indirect 100% 48. PUMA–RUS GmbH Russia Moskow indirect 100% 15. Dobotex France SAS France Paris indirect 100% 1) 49. PUMA Serbia DOO Serbia Belgrade indirect 100% 16. PUMA Vertrieb GmbH Germany Herzogenaurach direct 100% 50. PUMA Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia Bratsilava indirect 100% 17. PUMA Sprint GmbH Germany Herzogenaurach direct 100% 51. PUMA Ljubljana, trgovina, d.o.o Slovenia Ljubljana indirect 100% 18. PUMA Avanti GmbH Germany Herzogenaurach indirect 100% PUMA SPORTS DISTRIBUTORS (PTY) 52. South Africa Cape Town indirect 100% 19. PUMA Mostro GmbH Germany Herzogenaurach indirect 100% LIMITED 20. Premier Flug GmbH&Co. KG Germany Reichenschwand direct 50% 53. PUMA Sports S.A. South Africa Cape Town indirect 100% 21. Brandon Germany GmbH Germany Herzogenaurach indirect 100% 54. PUMA Sports Spain S.L. Spain Barcelona direct 100% 22. Dobotex Deutschland GmbH Germany Düsseldorf indirect 100% 1) 55. Dobotex Spain S.L. Spain Barcelona indirect 100% 1) 23. PUMA UNITED KINGDOM LTD Great Britain Leatherhead indirect 100% 56. Brandon Company AB Sweden Gothenburg direct 100% 24. PUMA Premier Ltd Great Britain Leatherhead indirect 100% 57. Brandon AB Sweden Gothenburg indirect 100% 25. Dobotex UK Ltd Great Britain Manchester indirect 100% 1) 58. 2Expressions Merchandise Svenska AB Sweden Gothenburg indirect 100% 26. Brandon Merchandising UK Ltd. Great Britain London indirect 100% 59. Brandon Services AB Sweden Gothenburg indirect 51,2% clever little report 2011 P : 157 | C : 8 Financial Statements 60. Brandon Stockholm AB Sweden Stockholm indirect 100% Asia / Pacific 61. Brandon Logistics AB Sweden Strömstad indirect 100% 91. PUMA Australia Pty. Ltd. Australia Moorabbin indirect 100% 62. Hunt Sport AB Sweden Helsingborg indirect 100% 92. White Diamond Australia Pty. Ltd. Australia Moorabbin indirect 100% 63. Tretorn AB Sweden Helsingborg direct 100% 93. White Diamond Properties Australia Moorabbin indirect 100% 64. PUMA Nordic AB Sweden Helsingborg indirect 100% 94. Kalola Pty Ltd. Australia Moorabbin indirect 100% 65. Tretorn Sweden AB Sweden Helsingborg indirect 100% British Virgin 95. Liberty China Holding Ltd indirect 100% 66. Mount PUMA AG (Schweiz) Switzerland Oensingen direct 100% Islands 67. PUMA Retail AG Switzerland Oensingen indirect 100% 96. PUMA China Ltd China Shanghai indirect 100% 68. PUMA Schweiz AG Switzerland Oensingen indirect 100% 97. Dobotex China Ltd. China Shanghai indirect 100% 1) 69. Dobotex Switzerland AG Switzerland Oensingen indirect 100% 1) Guangzhou World Cat Information Consul98. China Guangzhou indirect 100% 70. PUMA Spor Giyim Sananyi ve Ticaret A.S. Turkey Istanbul indirect 100% ting Services Co., Ltd 71. PUMA Ukraine Ltd. Ukraine Kiew indirect 100% 99. World Cat Ltd. China Hongkong direct 100% United Arab 100. Development Services Ltd. China Hongkong indirect 100% 72. PUMA Middle East FZ LLC Dubai indirect 100% Emirates 101. PUMA Asia Pacific Ltd. China Hongkong direct 100% United Arab 102. PUMA Hong Kong Ltd China Hongkong indirect 100% 73. PUMA UAE LLC Dubai indirect 100% 1) Emirates 103. Dobotex Ltd. China Hongkong indirect 100% 1) America 104. Dobo Cat Ltd. China Hongkong indirect 100% 1) 74. Unisol S.A. Argentina Buenos Aires direct 100% 105. PUMA Sports India Pvt Ltd. India Bangalore indirect 100% 75. PUMA Sports Ltda. Brazil Sao Paulo indirect 100% 106. PUMA India Retail Pvt Ltd. India Bangalore indirect 100% 1) 76. PUMA Canada, Inc. Canada Montreal indirect 100% 107. World Cat Sourcing India Ltd. India Bangalore indirect 100% 77. PUMA CHILE S.A. Chile Santiago indirect 100% 108. PUMA JAPAN K.K. Japan Tokio indirect 100% 78. PUMA SERVICIOS SPA Chile Santiago indirect 100% 109. PUMA Korea Ltd. Korea Seoul direct 100% 79. PUMA Mexico Sport S.A. de C.V. Mexico Mexico City direct 100% 110. Dobotex Korea Ltd. Korea Seoul indirect 100% 1) 80. Servicios Profesionales RDS S.A. de C.V. Mexico Mexico City indirect 100% 111. PUMA Sports Goods Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Kuala Lumpur direct 100% 1) 81. Importaciones RDS S.A. de C.V. Mexico Mexico City direct 100% 112. PUMA New Zealand LTD New Zealand Auckland indirect 100% 82. Distribuidora Deportiva PUMA S.A.C. Peru Lima indirect 100% 113. PUMA Sports Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore direct 100% 1) 83. Distribuidora Deportiva PUMA Tacna S.A.C Peru Tacna indirect 100% 114. PUMA Taiwan Sports Ltd. Taiwan Taipei indirect 100% 1) 84. PUMA Sports LA S.A. Uruguay Montevideo direct 100% 115. World Cat Vietnam Co. Ltd. Vietnam Long An Province indirect 100% 85. PUMA Suede Holding, Inc. USA Westford indirect 100% 86. PUMA North America, Inc. USA Westford indirect 100% 87. SC Communication Inc. USA Chicago indirect 100% 88. Cobra Golf Inc. USA Carlsbad indirect 100% 89. PUMA Wheat Accessories, Ltd USA San Diego indirect 51% 90. Janed, LLC USA New York indirect 51% 1) Subsidiaries that are to be 100% financially allocated to the PUMA Group clever little report 2011 P : 158 | C : 8 Financial Statements Currency Conversion equity are recognized in the income statement during the same period in which the hedged As a general rule, monetary items in foreign currencies are converted in the individual planned transaction affects the income statement. If, however, a hedged future transaction financial statements of the consolidated companies at the exchange rate valid on the balresults in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, gains or losses previously ance sheet date. Any resulting currency gains and losses are immediately recognized in the recorded in equity are included in the initial valuation of the acquisition costs of the respecincome statement. Non-monetary items are converted at historical acquisition and manutive asset or liability. The fair value of the derivative instruments used to hedge planned facturing costs. transactions are shown under other current financial asserts or other current financial The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, the functional currency of which is not the liabilities. Euro, have been converted to Euro at the average exchange rates valid on the balance sheet Leasing Leases are to be classified either as finance leases or operating leases in accordate. Expenses and income have been converted at the annual average exchange rates. Any dance with IAS 17. Leases where the Company, in its capacity as the lessee, is responsible differences resulting from the currency conversion of net assets relative to exchange rates for all significant opportunities and risks that arise from the use of the lease object are that had changed in comparison with the previous year were adjusted against equity. treated as finance leases. All other leases are classified as operating leases. The lease The significant conversion rates per euro are as follows: payments from operating leases are recorded as an expense over the term of the contract. Reporting date Average Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances. To the T.11 Currency exchange rate exchange rate extent that bank deposits are not immediately required to finance current assets, they are invested as risk-free fixed-term deposits, presently for a term of up to three months. The USD 1.2939 1.3918 total amount of cash and cash equivalents is consistent with the cash and cash equivalents HKD 10.0510 10.8346 stated in the cash flow statement. JPY 100.2000 110.9989 GBP 0.8353 0.8679 Inventories Inventories are valued at acquisition or manufacturing costs or at the lower net CHF 1.2156 1.2335 realizable values derived from the selling price on the balance sheet date. The prorated costs of product development are added to the acquisition or manufacturing costs of inventories. As a general rule, the acquisition cost of the merchandise is determined using the average cost method. Value adjustments are adequately recorded, depending on age, seaDerivative Financial Instruments/Hedge Accounting Derivative financial instruments are recsonality and realizable market prices, in a manner that is standard throughout the Group. ognized at fair value at the time a contract is entered into and thereafter. At the time when a hedging instrument is acquired, the Company classifies the derivatives as a hedge for a Receivables and Other Assets Receivables and other assets are initially stated at fair value, planned transaction (cash flow hedge). taking into account transaction costs, and subsequently valued at amortized costs after At the time when the transaction is concluded, the hedging relationship between the hedgdeduction of value adjustments. All identifiable risks with respect to value adjustments are ing instrument and the underlying transaction as well as the purpose of risk management sufficiently accounted for in the form of individual risk assessments based on historical and the underlying strategy are documented. In addition, assessments as to whether the values. derivatives used in the hedge accounting compensate effectively for a change in the fair Adjustments are conducted in principle, if after the entry record of the financial asset value or the cash flow of the underlying transaction are documented at the beginning of and there are objective indications for an adjustment, which has effect on the expected future continuously after the hedge accounting. cash flow from that financial instrument. Significant financial difficulties of a debtor, an Changes in the market value of derivatives that are intended and suitable for cash flow increased probability that a creditor becomes insolvent or enters into a clean-up procehedges and that prove to be effective are adjusted against equity. If there is no effectivedure, as well as a breach of contract, e.g. a cancelation or delay in interest or amortization ness, the ineffective part is recognized in the income statement. The amounts recognized in payments, all count as indicators for an existing adjustment. The amount of the adjustment clever little report 2011 P : 159 | C : 8 Financial Statements and other intangible assets with finite useful lives are tested for impairment if there is any loss corresponds to the difference between the carrying amount and the cash value of the indication of impairment in the value of the asset concerned. In order to determine whether expected cash flows. there is a requirement to record the impairment of an asset, the recoverable amount of the The non-current assets contain loans and other assets. Non-interest bearing non-current respective asset (the higher amount of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use) is assets are discounted in principle at cash value. compared with the carrying amount of the asset. If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss. The test for impairProperty, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition costs, ment is performed, if possible, at the level of the respective individual asset, otherwise at net of accumulated depreciation. The depreciation period depends on the expected useful the level of the cash-generating unit. Goodwill, on the other hand, is tested for impairment life of the respective item. The straight-line method of depreciation is applied. The useonly at the cash-generating unit level. If it is determined within the scope of the impairment ful life depends on the type of the assets involved. Buildings are subject to a useful life of test that an asset needs to be written down, then the goodwill, if any, of the cash-generating between ten and fifty years, and a useful life of between three to ten years is assumed for unit is written down initially and, in a second step, the remaining amount is distributed promoveable assets. portionately over the remaining assets. If the reason for the recorded impairment no longer Repair and maintenance costs are recorded as an expense as of the date on which they applies, a reversal of impairment loss is recorded to the maximum amount of the written were incurred. Substantial improvements and upgrades are capitalized to the extent that down cost. There is no reversal of an impairment loss for goodwill. the criteria for capitalization of an asset item apply. As a general rule, lease objects, the contractual basis of which is to be classified as a Impairment tests are performed using the discounted cash flow method. The determinafinance lease are shown under property, plant and equipment; initially they are accounted tion of expected cash flows is based on corporate planning data. Expected cash flows are for at fair value or the lower present value of the minimum lease payments and net of accudiscounted using an interest rate in line with market conditions. mulated depreciation in subsequent accounting periods. Investments in Associated Companies Associated companies represent shareholdings, over Goodwill Goodwill is calculated based on the difference between the purchase price and the which PUMA has a significant influence, but which do not qualify as subsidiaries or joint fair value of the acquired asset and liability items. Goodwill from acquisitions is largely atventures. Significant influence is generally assumed when PUMA holds, directly or inditributable to the intangible infrastructure acquired and the associated opportunity to make rectly, at least 20 percent, but less than 50 percent, of the voting rights. a positive contribution to corporate value. Investments in associated companies are accounted for using the equity method, i.e., the Goodwill amounts are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to shares are initially recognized at their acquisition cost and are subsequently adjusted for benefit from the synergy effects resulting from the business combination. the prorated changes in the company’s net assets that are attributable to PUMA. Any recAn impairment test of goodwill per cash-generating unit (usually the countries) is perognized goodwill is shown in the carrying amount of the associated company. formed once a year as well as whenever there are indicators of impairment and can result Within the scope of the impairment test, the carrying amount of a company valued at equity in an impairment loss. There is no reversal of an impairment loss for goodwill. is compared with its recoverable amount provided that there is any indication that the asset has decreased in value. If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount, the Other Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets largely consist of concessions, intellecdifference is recorded as an impairment loss. If the reasons for the previously recorded tual property rights and similar rights. These are valued at acquisition costs net of accumuimpairment no longer apply, a write-up is recognized in the income statement. lated amortization. The useful life of intangible assets is between three and ten years. The straight-line method of amortization is applied. The item also includes acquired trademark Financial Debt, Other Financial Liabilities and Other Liabilities As a general rule, these enrights, which were assumed to have an indefinite useful life in light of the history of the tries are recognized at its acquisition cost, taking into account transaction costs and subbrand as well as due to the fact that the brand is continued by PUMA. sequently recognized at amortized cost. Nonor low-interest bearing liabilities with a Impairment of Assets Assets with an indefinite useful life are not written down according to term of at least one year are recognized at present value, taking into account an interest schedule, but are subjected to an annual impairment test. Property, plant and equipment rate in line with market conditions, and are compounded until their maturity at their repayclever little report 2011 P : 160 | C : 8 Financial Statements ment amount. Liabilities from finance lease agreements are recorded as of the beginning costs. PUMA has stock-based compensation systems in the form of stock options (SOP) of the lease transaction at the amount of the fair value of the minimum lease amount, or involving share-based compensation. at the lower present value, and are adjusted by the repayment amount of the lease installThe expenses associated with the SOP are determined from the fair value of the options as ments. of the grant date, without taking into account the impact of non-market-oriented exercise As a general rule, current financial liabilities also include the proportion of long-term loans hurdles (e.g. forfeited options if the eligible employee leaves the company prematurely). that that have a maximum residual term of up to one year. The expense is recorded by distributing it as personnel costs over the vesting period until the options are vested and is recognized as a capital reserve. Non-market-oriented exerProvisions for Pensions and Similar Obligations In addition to defined benefit plans, some cise hurdles are adjusted in accordance with current expectations and the assessment of companies apply defined contribution plans, which do not result in any additional pension expected exercisable options is reviewed on each balance sheet date. The resulting gains commitment other than the current contributions. The pension provision under defined and losses are recognized in the income statement and recorded through a corresponding benefit plans is generally calculated using the projected unit credit method. This projectadjustment in equity over the remaining period up to the vesting date. ed unit credit method takes into account not only pension benefits and pension rights as accrued as of the balance sheet date, but also expected future salary and pension increasRecognition of Sales Sales are recognized in the income statement at the time of the transfer es. The defined benefit obligation (DBO) is calculated by discounting expected future benefit of risk. Sales are shown net of expected returns, discounts and rebates. payments at the rate of return on senior, fixed-rate corporate bonds. The currencies and maturity periods of the underlying corporate bonds are consistent with the currencies and Royalty and Commission Income Income from royalties is recognized in the income statement maturity periods of the obligations to be satisfied. In some of the plans, the obligation is in accordance with the invoices to be submitted by the license holders. In certain cases, accompanied by a plan asset. The shown pension provision is reduced by the plan asset. values must be estimated in order to permit accounting on an accrual basis. CommisActuarial gains and losses are recorded directly in equity as of the date of their accrual. sion income is invoiced to the extent that the underlying purchase transaction is deemed Service costs are shown in personnel costs and interest expense is shown in the financial realized. result. Advertising and Promotional Expenses Advertising expenses are recognized in the income Other Provisions In accordance with IAS 37, other provisions are recognized to account for statement as of the date of their accrual. As a general rule, promotional expenses stretchall those risks and obligations owed to third parties identifiable as of the balance sheet date ing over several years are recognized as an expense over the contractual term on an accruthat result from past transactions or past events, and the amount or maturity of which is al basis. Any expenditure surplus resulting from this allocation of expenses after the baluncertain. The provisions are recognized at their settlement value as determined on the ance sheet date are recognized in the form of an impairment of assets or a provision for basis of the best possible assessment and are not offset by income. Provisions are also anticipated losses in the respective annual financial statements. recognized to account for onerous contracts. A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs exceed the expected economic benefit. As a general rule, all provisions classified as Product Development The Company continuously develops new products in order to meet long-term provisions are discounted. market requirements and market changes. Intangible assets are not capitalized since the criteria set forth in IAS 38 are not satisfied. Treasury Stock Treasury stock is deducted from equity at its market price as of the date of acquisition, plus incidental acquisition costs. Pursuant to the authorization of the Annual Financial Results The financial results include the results from associated companies as General Meeting, treasury stock can be repurchased for any authorized purpose, including well as interest income from financial investments and interest expense from loans. Fithe flexible management of the Company’s capital requirements. nancial results also include interest expense from discounted non-current liabilities and Equity Compensation Plans/Management Incentive Program In accordance with IFRS 2, stockpension provisions that are associated with acquisitions of business enterprises or arise based compensation systems are recognized at fair value and recorded under personnel from the valuation of pension commitments. clever little report 2011 P : 161 | C : 8 Financial Statements In general, exchange rate effects that can be directly allocated to an underlying transaction from those cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. To this end, the data are shown in the respective income statement item. used were from the three-year plan, which is based on forecasts of the overall economic development and the resulting industry-specific consumer behavior. Another key assumpIncome Taxes Current income taxes are determined in accordance with the tax regulations of tion concerns the determination of an appropriate interest rate for discounting the cash the respective countries where the Company conducts its operations. flow to present value (discounted cash flow method). See paragraph 11 for further information, in particular regarding the assumptions used for the calculation. Deferred Taxes Deferred taxes resulting from temporary valuation differences between the IFRS and tax balance sheets of individual Group companies and from consolidation proPension Obligations Pension obligations are determined using an actuarial calculation. This cedures are charged to each taxable entity and shown either as deferred tax assets or calculation is contingent on a large number of factors that are based on assumptions and deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets may also include claims for tax reductions that estimates regarding the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets, future wage result from the expected utilization of existing losses carried forward to subsequent years and salary increases, mortality and future pension increases. Due to the long-term nature and that is sufficiently certain to materialize. Deferred tax assets or liabilities may also of the commitments made, the assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties. Any result from accounting treatments that do not affect net income. Deferred taxes are calcuchange in these assumptions has an impact on the carrying amount of the pension obligalated on the basis of the tax rates that apply to the reversal in the individual countries and tions. The Group determines at the end of each year the discount rate applied to determine that are in force or adopted as of the balance sheet date. the present value of future payments. This discount rate is based on the interest rates of Deferred tax assets are shown only to the extent that the respective tax advantage is likely corporate bonds with the highest credit rating that are denominated in the currency in to materialize. Value adjustments are recognized on the basis of the past earnings situation which the benefits are paid and the maturity of which correspond to that of the pension obliand the business expectations in the near future, if this criterion is not fulfilled. gations. See paragraph 16 for further information, in particular regarding the parameters used for the calculation. Assumptions and Estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires some assumptions and estimates that have an impact on the amount and disclosure of the Deferred Taxes The recognition of deferred taxes, in particular with respect to tax losses recognized assets and liabilities, income and expenses, as well as contingent liabilities. The carried forward, requires that estimates and assumptions be made concerning future tax assumptions and estimates are based on premises, which in turn are based on currently planning strategies as well as expected date of initial recognition and the amount of future available information. In individual cases, the actual values may deviate from the assumptaxable income. For purposes of these estimates, the taxable income is derived from the tions and estimates made. Consequently, future periods involve a risk of adjustment to the respective corporate planning, taking into account the results of operations of earlier carrying amount of the assets and liabilities concerned. If the actual performance is differyears and the expected future business performance. Deferred tax assets on losses carent from the expected performance, the premises and, if necessary, the carrying amounts of ried forward are recorded in the event of companies that incur a loss only if it is highly the assets and liabilities concerned will be adjusted and recognized in the income statement. probable that future positive income will be achieved that can be set off against these All assumptions and estimates are continuously reassessed. They are based on historical tax losses carried forward. Please see paragraph 9 for further information and detailed experiences and other factors, including expectations regarding future global and indusassumptions. try-related trends that appear reasonable under the current circumstances. Assumptions and estimates concern, in particular, goodwill, pension obligations, derivative financial Derivative Financial Instruments The assumptions used for the estimation of derivative finaninstruments and deferred taxes. The most significant forward-looking assumptions and cial instruments are based on the prevailing market conditions as of the balance sheet date sources of estimation uncertainty as of the reporting date concerning the above-mentioned and thus reflect the fair value. See paragraph 26 for further information. items are discussed below. Goodwill A review of the impairment of goodwill is based on the calculation of the value in use. In order to calculate the value in use, the Group must estimate the future cash flows clever little report 2011 P : 162 | C : 8 Financial Statements 3. Business Combinations 5. Inventories Effective as of August 1, 2011, PUMA acquired a 51% interest in Janed, LLC, with its regisInventories are allocated to the following main groups: tered seat in Delaware, USA and has thereby expanded the sales organization in the North American market. The company is engaged in the development and sale of PUMA socks and T.12 2011 2010 bodywear. Janed, LLC has thus expanded the group of consolidated companies and is fully € million € million consolidated and the non-controlling interests are disclosed. Raw materials and supplies 9.4 6.4 The acquisition mainly includes inventories and liabilities each in amount of € 3.1 million. The purchase price to be paid in cash for the acquisition of the shares is allocated in full Finished goods and merchandise/inventory to the goodwill resulting from the acquisition in the amount of € 1.5 million, which is not Footwear 169.7 134.6 deductible for tax purposes. The interests of non-controlling shareholders were not recogApparel 164.6 134.6 nized since the Company did not have any net assets as of the time of the acquisition. Accessories/Other 77.0 65.0 Consolidated sales increased by € 14.8 million during the reporting period as a result of the Goods in transit 116.1 99.1 acquisition of Janed LLC. The profits of the current period include the profits of Janed LLC Total 536.8 439.7 in the amount of € 0.0 million. If this transaction had been completed by January 1, 2011, the 2011 sales of the PUMA Group would have increased by € 34.6 million and the net earnings would have increased by € 0.0 million. The table shows the carrying amount of the inventories net of value adjustments. Of value Regarding the acquisition of Cobra Golf in 2010, there was a contingent purchase price liaadjustments, which amount to € 83.5 million (previous year: € 79.0 million), about 73% was bility in the amount of € 6.8 million as of the balance sheet date in the previous year, which recorded under cost of sales in the income statement in financial year 2011 (previous year: was released due to the updated calculation. about 68%). The amount of inventories recorded as an expense during the period mainly includes the 4. Cash and Cash Equivalents cost of sales shown in the consolidated income statement. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents amount to € 448.2 million (previous year: € 479.6 million). The average effective interest rate of financial invest6. Trade Receivables ments was 1.0% (previous year: 0.8%). There are no restrictions on disposition. This item consists of: T.13 2011 2010 € million € million Trade receivables, gross 581.4 534.1 Less value adjustments -48.3 -87.1 Trade receivables, net 533.1 447.0 clever little report 2011 P : 163 | C : 8 Financial Statements Allowances for trade receivables developed as follows: T.16 Gross values T.14 2011 2010 of which € million € million 2011 Total of which not written down written down Status of value adjustments as of January 1 87.1 78.1 Not 0 – 30 31 – 60 61 – 90 91 – 180 over 180 due days days days days days Exchange rate differences -0.3 1.4 Additions 23.5 25.8 € million 581.4 413.4 42.8 23.0 6.3 8.5 4.3 83.1 Reclassifications -23.1 0.0 Utilization -26.9 -9.2 With respect to trade receivables that were not written down, the Company assumes that Releases -12.0 -9.0 the debtors will satisfy their payment obligations Status of value adjustments as of December 31 48.3 87.1 7. Other Current Financial Assets This item consists of: In connection with the allocation of already fully written off trade receivables to other financial assets, gross receivables and value adjustments in the amount of € 23.1 million were T.17 2011 2010 reclassified accordingly in the reporting year. € million € million The age structure of the trade receivables is as follows: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 28.7 3.3 Other financial assets 16.1 22.6 T.15 Gross values Total 44.8 25.9 of which 2010 Total of which not written down written down Not due 0 – 30 days 31 – 60 days 61 – 90 days 91 – 180 days over 180 days 8. Other Current Assets This item consists of: € million 534.1 346.7 38.0 14.0 6.5 7.9 10.3 110.7 T.18 2011 2010 € million € million Prepaid expenses relating to the subsequent period 32.6 27.1 Other receivables 46.4 47.1 Total 79.0 74.2 The amount shown is due within one year. The fair value corresponds to the carrying amount. clever little report 2011 P : 164 | C : 8 Financial Statements Other receivables mainly include VAT receivables amounting to € 25.3 million (previous accumulated, since it is most likely that such temporary differences will not be cleared in year: € 26.1 million). foreseeable time. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to a taxable entity and can in fact 9. Deferred Taxes be netted. Accordingly, they are shown in the balance sheet as follows: Deferred taxes relate to the items shown below: T.20 2011 2010 2011 2010 € million € million T.19 € million € million Deferred tax assets 109.1 96.5 Tax losses carried forward 31.7 13.6 Deferred tax liabilities 63.6 50.7 Non-current assets 15.2 15.9 Deferred tax assets, net 45.5 45.8 Current assets 40.8 40.7 Provisions and other liabilities 37.8 35.8 From adjustment against equity 0.0 8.0 The changes in deferred tax assets were as follows: Deferred tax assets (before netting) 125.5 114.0 T.21 2011 2010 Non-current assets 62.4 62.1 € million € million Current assets 16.5 5.6 Provisions and other liabilities 1.1 0.5 Deferred tax assets, previous year 96.5 64.8 Deferred tax liabilities (before netting) 80.0 68.2 Recognition in the income statement 17.3 26.1 Deferred tax assets, net 45.5 45.8 Adjustment against equity -4.7 5.6 Deferred tax assets 109.1 96.5 The effects from the adjustment against equity in the amount of € -13.1 million (previous year: € 8.0 million) were directly allocated to the individual items in the reporting year. The changes in deferred tax liabilities were as follows: Of the deferred tax assets, € 82.7 million (previous year: € 90.1 million) and of the deferred tax liabilities € 16.0 million (previous year: € 6.1 million) are current. T.22 2011 2010 As of December 31, 2011, tax losses carried forward amounted to a total of € 234.2 million € million € million (previous year: € 102.7 million). This results in a deferred tax asset of € 57.8 million (previDeferred tax liabilities, previous year 50.7 4.4 ous year: € 23.0 million). Deferred tax assets were recognized for these items in the amount at which the associated tax advantages are likely to be realized in the form of future profDeferred taxes from acquisition of subsidiaries 0.0 42.0 its for income tax purposes. Accordingly, deferred tax assets were not recognized for tax Recognition in the income statement 4.6 4.3 losses carried forward amounting to € 26.1 million (previous year: € 9.4 million); these do Adjustment against equity 8.3 0.0 not expire. In addition, no deferred taxes were recognized for deductible temporary differDeferred tax liabilities 63.6 50.7 ences amounting to € 15.7 million (previous year: € 11.2 million). Deferred tax liabilities for withholding taxes from possible dividends on retained earnings of subsidiaries that serve to cover the financing needs of the respective company were not clever little report 2011 P : 165 | C : 8 Financial Statements 10. Property, Plant and Equipment T.24 2011 2010 Property, plant and equipment at their carrying amount consist of: € million € million EMEA 157.3 150.4 T.23 2011 2010 € million € million America 41.7 40.5 Asia/Pacific 100.0 90.8 Land and buildings, including buildings on third-party land 133.5 137.8 Total 299.0 281.7 Technical equipment and machinery 5.3 3.3 Other equipment, factory and office equipment 93.6 89.4 Assets under construction 2.5 6.2 Assumptions used in conducting the impairment test in 2011: Total 234.9 236.7 T.25 EMEA America Asia / Pacific Tax rate (range) 20.0 % – 28.0 % 17.0 % – 40.0 % 17.0 % – 40.7 % The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is derived from the acquisition costs. Accumulated depreciation of property, plant and equipment amounted to € 253.7 million WACC before tax (range) 7.3 % – 14.9 % 8.6 % – 24.6 % 8.4 % – 12.1 % (previous year: € 233.3 million). WACC after tax (range) 6.1 % – 12.2 % 6.9 % – 16.5 % 5.1 % – 11.2 % Property, plant and equipment include lease assets (finance lease) in the amount of € 0.9 Growth rate 3% 3% 3% million (previous year: € 1.2 million). The changes in property, plant and equipment in financial year 2011 are shown in “Changes in Fixed Assets”. Impairment expenses that exceed current depreciation are included in the A growth rate of less than 3% was used in justified exceptional cases. amount of € 5.4 million (prior year: € 9.6 million), mainly as a result of the re-engineering and optimization of the global organizational structure. Sensitivity analyses related to the performed impairment tests indicate that a 1% increase in the discount rate (WACC “weighted average capital costs”) along with a 1% decrease of 11. Intangible Assets the growth rate have no effect on the impairment of goodwill. This item mainly includes goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and assets associated with the Company’s own retail activities. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized according to schedule. An impairment test was performed in the past financial year using the discounted cash flow method, using data from the respective three-year plan. The recoverable amount was determined on the basis of the value in use. This did not result in an impairment loss. The changes in intangible assets in financial year 2011 are shown in “Changes in Fixed Assets”. The other intangible fixed assets include € 11.5 million prepayments (prior year: € 1.5 million). Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s identifiable cash-generating units (CGUs) according to the country where the activity is carried out. Summarized by regions, goodwill is allocated as follows: clever little report 2011 P : 166 | C : 8 Financial Statements The following table contains the assumptions for the performance of the impairment test The balance sheet date of Wilderness Holdings Ltd. is February 28, 2012. The information in 2010: on total assets, total liabilities and equity stated above relate to the Company’s financial information as of December 31. T.26 13. Other Non-Current Assets EMEA America Asia / Pacific Other non-current financial and non-financial assets consist of: Tax rate (range) 20.0 % – 30.0 % 17.0 % – 40.0 % 17.5 % – 40.7 % WACC before tax (range) 7.9 % – 14.2 % 9.0 % – 11.0 % 7.6 % – 10.6 % 2011 2010 T.28 € million € million WACC after tax (range) 6.4 % – 11.9 % 6.9 % – 12.7 % 5.0 % – 9.7 % Growth rate 3% 3% 3% Other loans 1.9 2.7 Other financial assets 17.0 15.2 Sum of other non-current financial assets 18.9 17.9 Other non-current non-financial assets 27.4 21.0 12. Investments in Associated Companies Other Non-Current Assets, total 46.3 38.9 The 20.1% interest in Wilderness Holdings Ltd. is shown under investments in associated companies. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying amount of the shares amounts to € 24.8 million (previous year: € 23.9 million). The market value of the shares amounts to € 19.9 million (previous year: € 24.5 million). The Company’s multiannual plan reveals that the Other financial assets mainly include rental deposits in the amount of € 16.7 million (previcarrying amount of the shares is covered by the value in use. ous year: € 14.8 million). The following overview shows the aggregated benchmark data of the associated companies In financial year 2011, there were no indicators of impairment of other non-current assets. recognized at equity. The values represent the values based on the entire company and do not relate to the shares attributable to the PUMA Group. T.27 2011 2010 € million € million. Total assets 81.9 81.8 Total liabilities 43.2 45.3 Equity 38.7 36.5 Sales 86.2 88.3 Earnings 3.2 8.6 clever little report 2011 P : 167 | C : 8 Financial Statements 14. Liabilities The residual terms of liabilities are as follows: 2011 2010 T.29 Total Residual term of Total Residual term of up to 1 year 1 to 5 years over 5 years up to 1 year 1 to 5 years over 5 years € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million Current liabilities to banks 35.1 35.1 42.8 42.8 Trade Payables 431.4 431.4 344.3 344.3 Liabilities from acquisitions of business enterprises 100.4 93.6 6.8 0,006.8 137.6 55.7 81.9 Other liabilities Tax liabilities 37.6 37.6 43.5 43.5 Liabilities relating to social security 5.0 5.0 4.2 4.2 Liabilities to employees 50.8 50.8 51.1 51.1 Liabilities from the market valuation of forward exchange transactions 2.2 2.2 21.3 21.3 Liabilities from leases 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Other liabilities 80.0 69.1 10.9 0,010.9 67.1 56.8 10.3 Total 742.8 725.1 17.7 0,017.7 712.4 620.2 92.2 0.0 The PUMA Group has confirmed credit facilities amounting to a total of € 353.6 million (previous year: € 259.2 million). The reason for the increase is the expansion and consolidation of the business relationship with a core banking group of banks. Relevant framework agreements were entered into with the financing partners. With liabilities to banks amounting to € 35.1 million (previous year: € 42.8 million) and guaranteed credit in the amount of € 31.5 million (previous year: € 27.6 million), the non-utilized credit facilities amounted to € 287.0 million as of December 31, 2011 compared to € 188.8 million in the previous year. The effective interest rate of the financial liabilities ranged between 1.5% 13.3%. clever little report 2011 P : 168 | C : 8 Financial Statements The table below shows the cash flows of the original financial liabilities and of the derivative financial instruments with a positive and negative fair value: Carrying amount Cash flow 2012 Cash flow 2013 Cash flow 2014 et seq. T.30 Cash flows from non-derivative FINANCIAL liabilities 2011 Interest Repayment Interest Repayment Interest Repayment €€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million Non-derivative financial liabilities Liabilities to banks 35.1 35.1 Trade Receivables 431.4 431.4 Liabilities from finance leases 0.3 0.2 0.1 Purchase price liabilities 100.4 93.6 1.9 5.2 Other liabilities 54.1 54.1 Derivative financial liabilities and assets Forward exchange transactions with cash flow hedges inflow 632.6 Forward exchange transactions in connection with cash flow hedges inflow 617.6 Liabilities to banks can be repaid at any time. The following values were determined in the previous year: Carrying amount Cash flow 2011 Cash flow 2012 Cash flow 2013 et seq. T.31 Cash flows from non-derivative liabilities 2010 Interest Repayment Interest Repayment Interest Repayment € million € million € million € million € million € million € million Non-derivative financial liabilities Liabilities to banks 42.8 42.8 Trade Receivables 344.3 344.3 Liabilities from finance leases 0.5 0.4 Purchase price liabilities 137.6 55.7 78.2 4.1 Other liabilities 43.7 37.0 0.5 6.2 Derivative financial liabilities and assets Forward exchange transactions with cash flow hedges inflow 525.9 Forward exchange transactions in connection with cash flow hedges inflow 545.9 clever little report 2011 P : 169 | C : 8 Financial Statements 15. Additional Disclosures on Financial Instruments Financial instruments that are measured at market value in the balance sheet were determined using the following hierarchy: T.32 Carrying Carrying MeasurementAmount Fair Value Amount Fair Value Level 1: Use of prices quoted on active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Categories 2011 2011 2010 2010 Level 2: Use of input factors that do not involve the quoted prices stated under Level 1, but under IAS 39 € million € million € million € million can be observed for the asset or liability either directly (i.e., as price) or indirectly (i.e., derivation of prices). Assets Level 3: Use of factors for the valuation of the asset or liability that are based on nonCash and Cash Equivalents 1) LAR 448.2 448.2 479.6 479.6 observable market data. Trade receivables LAR 533.1 533.1 447.0 447.0 Other current financial assets LAR 16.1 16.1 22.6 22.6 The market value of derivative assets or liabilities was determined on the basis of Level 2. Derivatives with hedging Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other assets have a short residual relationship (Fair Value) n.a. 27.2 27.2 3.3 3.3 maturity. Accordingly, as of the reporting date the carrying amount approximates fair value. Derivatives without hedging Receivables are stated at nominal value, taking into account deductions for default risk. relationship (Fair Value) n.a. 1.5 1.5 0.0 0.0 As of the reporting date, the carrying amount of loans approximates fair value. Loans LAR 1.9 1.9 2.7 2.7 The fair value of other financial assets corresponds to their present value, taking into Other non-current financial assets LAR 17.0 17.0 15.2 15.2 account prevailing market interest rates. Other financial assets include € 18.2 million (previous year: € 16.7 million) that were pledged as rental deposits. Liabilities to banks can be terminated at any time and, thus, have a short maturity. AccordLiabilities ingly, as of the reporting date the carrying amount approximates fair value. Liabilities to banks 2) OL 35.1 35.1 42.8 42.8 Trade payables have a short residual maturity. The recognized values approximate fair Trade payables OL 431.4 431.4 344.3 344.3 value. Purchase price liabilities OL 100.4 100.4 137.6 137.6 Pursuant to the contracts entered into, purchase price liabilities associated with acquisiLiabilities from leases n.a. 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 tions of business enterprises lead to prorated payments. The resulting nominal amounts Other financial liabilities OL 54.1 54.1 43.7 43.7 were discounted at a reasonable market interest rate, depending on the expected date of payment. Depending on the country, market interest rates range between 2.3% and 3.4%. Derivatives with hedging relationship (Fair Value) n.a. 1.9 1.9 21.3 21.3 The fair value of other financial liabilities is determined based on the present value, taking Derivatives without hedging into account the prevailing interest rate parameters. relationship (Fair Value) n.a. 0.3 0.3 0.0 0.0 The fair value of derivatives with hedging relationships as of the balance sheet date is Total LAR 1.016.3 1.016.3 967.1 967.1 determined taking into account the prevailing market parameters. The discounted result Total OL 621.0 621.0 568.4 568.4 of the comparison of the forward price on the reporting date with the forward price on the valuation date is included in the measurement. 1) LAR: Loans and Receivables; 2) OL: Other Liabilities clever little report 2011 P : 170 | C : 8 Financial Statements Net income by measurement categories: € 22.3 million (previous year: € 20.0 million). The provision amounts to € 3.7 million (previous year: € 1.3 million). T.33 2011 2010 The changes in the present value of pension claims are as follows: € million € million T.34 2011 2010 Loans and receivables (LAR) -6.4 -20.4 € million € million Other liabilities (OL) -14.4 -18.8 Present value of pension claims January 1 56.4 50.0 Derivatives without hedging relationship +1.2 0.0 Cost of the claims earned in the reporting year 3.9 2.9 Total -19.6 -39.2 Interest expense 2.4 2.4 Employee contributions 0.5 0.4 The net income was determined by taking into account interest rates, currency exchange Actuarial (gains) and losses 4.2 1.4 effects, value adjustments as well as gains and losses from sales. Currency exchange effects 0.9 1.9 General administrative expenses and financial results include allowances for receivables Benefits paid -1.9 -2.5 and currency changes, respectively. Past service costs -0.8 0.0 16. Pension Provisions Effects from transfers 0.3 0.0 Pension provisions result from employees’ claims for benefits, which are based on the Effects from plan reductions -1.5 -0.1 statutory or contractual regulations applicable in the respective country, in the event of Effects from settlements 0.0 0.0 invalidity, death or when a certain retirement age has been reached. Present value of pension claims December 31 64.4 56.4 The obligations of PUMA SE rely exclusively on the contractual provisions. The general pension regulations of PUMA SE for new hires up to December 31, 1995 basically provide for pension payments of a maximum amount of € 127.82 per month and per eligible employee. This pension plan is closed. In addition, PUMA SE provides individual commitments (fixed sums in different amounts) as well as contribution-based individual commitments (in part from salary conversion). The contribution-based individual commitments are insured plans. The scope of the obligations attributable to domestic pension claims (PUMA SE) amounts to € 22.8 million (previous year: € 23.3 million) and thus accounts for 35.4% (previous year: 41.3%) of the total obligation. The fair value of the plan assets relative to domestic obligations amounts to € 8.7 million (previous year: € 7.4 million). The pension provision amounts to € 14.1 million (previous year: € 15.9 million). The defined benefit plan in the UK is not available for new hires. This defined benefit plan includes salary and length of service-based commitments to provide old age, invalidity and surviving dependents’ retirement benefits. Partial capitalization of the old-age pension is permitted. The obligations regarding pension claims under the defined benefit plan in the UK amount to € 26.0 million (previous year € 21.3 million) and thus, account for 40.4% (previous year: 37.8%) of the total obligation. The obligation is covered by assets amounting to clever little report 2011 P : 171 | C : 8 Financial Statements The changes in the plan assets are as follows: The changes in pension provisions are as follows: T.35 2011 2010 T.37 2011 2010 € million € million € million € million Plan assets January 1 30.4 24.6 Pension provision January 1 26.0 25.4 Expected return on plan assets 1.3 1.1 Pension expense 2.7 4.1 Actuarial gains and (losses) 0.4 0.8 Actuarial (gains) and losses recorded in equity 3.8 0.6 Employer contributions 2.0 4.0 Employer contributions -2.0 -4.0 Employee contributions 0.5 0.4 Direct pension payments made by the employer -1.2 -1.0 Currency exchange effects 0.6 1.0 Transfers 0.2 0.0 Benefits paid -0.7 -1.5 Currency exchange differences 0.3 0.9 Effects from transfers 0.1 0.0 Pension provision December 31 29.8 26.0 Effects from settlements 0.0 0.0 of which assets 0.0 -0.1 Plan assets December 31 34.6 30.4 of which liabilities 29.8 26.1 The pension provision for the Group is derived as follows: The expenses in financial year 2011 are structured as follows: T.36 2011 2010 T.38 2011 2010 € million € million € million € million Present value of pension claims from wholly or partially funded plans 54.6 49.3 Cost of the claims earned in the reporting year 3.9 2.9 Fair value of plan assets -34.6 -30.4 Interest expense 2.4 2.4 Shortfall /(surplus) 20.0 18.9 Expected return on plan assets -1.3 -1.1 Present value of pension plans from unfunded plans 9.8 7.1 Expense from plan changes -0.8 0.0 Non-recorded historical costs 0.0 0.0 Expense from plan reductions or settlements -1.5 -0.1 Amounts not recorded due to the maximum limit applicable to assets 0.0 0.0 Expenses for defined benefit plans 2.7 4.1 Pension provision December 31 29.8 26.0 Paid contributions for defined contribution plans 8.1 8.5 Total expenses for old-age pension 10.8 12.6 In 2011, benefits paid amounted to € 1.9 million (previous year: € 2.5 million). Payments in of which personnel costs 9.7 11.3 the amount of € 2.0 million are expected in 2012. Of this amount, € 1.4 million are expected of which financial costs 1.1 1.3 to be paid directly by the employer. In 2011, contributions to external plan assets amounted to € 2.0 million (previous year: € 4.0 million). Contributions in 2012 are expected to amount to € 1.6 million. clever little report 2011 P : 172 | C : 8 Financial Statements Actuarial gains and losses recorded in equity: The following assumptions were used to determine pension obligations and pension expenses: T.39 2011 2010 € million € million T.41 2011 2010 Actuarial (gains) and losses in the financial year 3.8 0.6 Effects from taking into account the maximum limit applicable to assets 0.0 0.0 Discount rate 4.27% 4.57% Total expenses directly recognized in equity in the financial year 3.8 0.6 Future pension increases 2.07% 2.07% Expenses recognized in equity in previous years 7.7 7.1 Future salary increases 4.08% 3.95% Currency exchange differences 0.3 0.0 Expected return on external plan assets 4.64% 4.79% Accumulated expenses recognized in equity 11.8 7.7 The indicated values are weighted average values. A standard interest rate of 4.5% (previPlan asset classes: ous year: 4.5%) was applied for the euro zone. The pension provisions of PUMA SE were determined using the Klaus Heubeck “2005 G” T.40 2011 2010 mortality tables. € million € million Obligations, assets and cover ratio Stocks 5.7 6.9 Bonds 16.0 12.3 2011 2010 2009* 2008 2007 T.42 € million € million € million € million € million Hedge funds 0.1 0.1 Derivatives 0.0 0.0 Present value of pension claims 64.4 56.4 50.0 41.0 39.0 Real estate 2.8 2.5 Plan assets 34.6 30.4 24.6 19.7 21.1 Insurance 8.8 7.5 Surplus / shortfall 29.8 26.0 25.4 21.3 17.9 Other 1.2 1.1 Total plan assets 34.6 30.4 * Adjusted comparative figures pursuant to IAS 8 Plan assets do not include the Group’s own financial instruments. The actual return on plan assets amounted to € 1.7 million (previous year: € 1.9 million). The expected return on external plan assets is determined separately for each asset class based on capital market research and return forecasts. Insurance contracts account for 25.4% of the plan assets. The determination of the expected return on plan assets was based on the published or expected return of the insurance company concerned. clever little report 2011 P : 173 | C : 8 Financial Statements Adjustments based on experience 18. Other Provisions 2011 2010 2009 2008 2010 2011 T.43 T.45 € million € million € million € million Currency Utilization Release Addition adjustments, transfers (Gains) / losses in plan assets based on experience -0.4 -0.8 -0.7 2.6 € million € million € million € million € million € million. (Gains) / losses in pensions obligations Provisions for: based on experience -0.1 -0.5 1.8 0.8 Warranties 14.0 0.2 -5.7 -0.8 2.9 10.6 Purchasing risks 2.5 -0.1 -0.7 -1.2 5.5 6.0 Special items 19.5 -0.2 -14.0 0.0 0.0 5.3 17. Tax Provisions Other 48.1 -0.1 -13.0 -5.3 18.5 48.2 2010 2011 Total 84.1 -0.2 -33.4 -7.3 26.9 70.1 T.44 Currency Utilization Release Addition adjustments, transfers € million € million € million € million € million € million. The warranty provision is determined on the basis of the historical value of sales generated during the past six months. It is expected that a large amount of these expenses will fall Tax provisions 106.9 0.1 -84.2 -9.5 57.0 70.3 due within the first six months of the next financial year. Purchasing risks relate primarily to materials and molds that are required for the manufacturing of shoes. The provision will probably result in a payment in the following year. Tax provisions mainly include expected tax arrears for previous years as well as income Provisions for special items include expenses incurred for the optimization of the retail taxes expected but not yet paid for financial year 2011. Deferred taxes are not included. The trade portfolio, the global organizational structure and re-engineering of the operative provision should lead to a cash outflow in the following financial year. processes. Taking into account tax refund claims in the amount of € 72,6 million, which are included Other provisions consist primarily of risks associated with legal disputes, provisions for in receivables from income taxes, as well as the tax liabilities in the amount of € 12.3 milanticipated losses from pending business and other risks. lion included in the liabilities from income taxes, the Group’s expected netted tax liabilities Other provisions include long-term provisions in the amount of € 26.3 million (previous amount to € 10.0 million. year: € 12.2 million). 19. Liabilities from the Acquisition of Business Entities Pursuant to the contracts entered into, purchase price liabilities associated with acquisitions of business enterprises result in prorated payments. The resulting nominal amounts were discounted at a reasonable market interest rate, depending on the expected date of payment. clever little report 2011 P : 174 | C : 8 Financial Statements The purchase price liability consists of: Reserve from the Difference Resulting From Currency Conversion The equity item for currency conversion serves to record the differences from the conversion of the financial statements T.46 2011 2010 of subsidiaries with non-Euro accounting. € million € million Cash flow Hedges The “cash flow hedges” item includes the market valuation of derivative Due within one year 93.6 55.7 financial instruments. The item includes € 19.8 million (previous year: € -11.1 million), which Due in more than one year 6.8 81.9 are offset against € -7.0 million of deferred taxes (previous year: € 5.5 million). Total 100.4 137.6 Treasury Stock Pursuant to a resolution passed by the Annual General Meeting of April 20, 2010, the Company was authorized to acquire Company shares of up to ten percent of the share capital by April 19, 2015. If purchased through the stock exchange, the purchase price 20. Shareholders’ Equity per share may not exceed or fall below 10% of the closing price for the Company’s shares Subscribed Capital The subscribed capital corresponds to the subscribed capital of PUMA with the same attributes in the XETRA trading system (or a comparable successor system) SE. As of the balance sheet date, the subscribed capital amounted to € 38.6 million and is during the last three trading days prior to the date of purchase. At the same time, pursudivided into 15,082,464 fully paid-in bearer shares. Capital reserves rose by € 6.5 million ant to the resolution granting authorization, the previous resolution of the Annual General as a result of the valuation of stock option programs for management. Meeting from 2009 was revoked. As published already on August 8, 2011, SAPARDIS S.E. (formerly SAPARDIS S.A.), a fully The Company made use of the authorization to purchase treasury stock and repurchased owned subsidiary of PPR S.A., Paris, has informed us that its percentage share of voting 124,573 no-par shares with a value of € 26.6 million during the reporting period. Furtherrights in PUMA SE exceeded the 75% threshold on August 3, 2011. Consequently, the PPR more during the reporting period, a number of 78,335 no-par shares with a value of € 17.3 Group holds a qualified majority stake in PUMA SE. million were converted within the management incentive program. As of the balance sheet Changes in the circulating shares: date, the Company holds a total of 147,831 PUMA shares in its own portfolio, which corresponds to 0.98% of the subscribed capital. T.47 2011 2010 Authorized Capital Pursuant to Section 4, Nos. 3 and 4 of the Articles of Association of PUMA SE, the Administrative Board is authorized, to increase the share capital by April 10, 2012 Circulating shares as of January 1 share 14,980,871 15,082,464 as follows: Conversion from Management Incentive Program share 78,335 626 A) b  y issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of new shares on one or more occasions in exchange Share buy-back share -124,573 -102,219 for cash contributions. Shareholders have in principle subscription rights whereby such Circulating shares as of December 31 share 14,934,633 14,980,871 subscription rights may be barred to avoid fractional shares (Subscribed Capital I) and B) b  y issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of new shares on one or more occasions in exchange Capital Reserve The capital reserve includes the premium from the issuing of shares, as for cash contributions or contributions in kind, whereby the shareholders’ subscription well as amounts from the grant and conversion of share options. rights may be wholly or partially barred (Subscribed Capital II). Retained Earnings and Net Profit Retained earnings include the net income of the financial conditional Capital Pursuant to the resolution passed by the Annual General Meeting of year as well as the income of the companies included in the consolidated financial stateApril 22, 2008, the share capital can be increased by up to € 1.5 million through the issuance ments achieved in the past to the extent it was not distributed. of up to 600,000 new shares. The conditional capital increase may be used exclusively for clever little report 2011 P : 175 | C : 8 Financial Statements the purpose of granting subscription rights (stock options) to former members of the Board 21. Equity Compensation Plans/Management Incentive Program of Management, managing directors and other executive staff of the Company as well as to affiliated subsidiary companies. As of December 31, 2011, conditional capital was still availIn order to provide long-term incentives and thereby retain the management staff in the able in a total amount of € 1.5 million (previous year: € 1.5 million). Company, PUMA uses share-based compensation systems in the form of stock option programs (SOP) and stock appreciations rights (SAR). The programs were valued using a binoDividends The amounts eligible for distribution relate to the net income of PUMA SE, which mial model or a Monte Carlo simulation. are determined in accordance with German Commercial Law. The current programs are described below: The managing directors and the Administrative Board recommend to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of € 2.00 per circulating share, or a total of € 29.9 million (with reExplanation of “SOP” Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting of April 22, spect to the circulating shares as of December 31), be distributed to the shareholders from 2008, a stock option program, “SOP 2008”, was accepted in the form of a “Performance the net income of PUMA SE for financial year 2011. This corresponds to a payout ratio of Share Program”. Conditional capital was created for this purpose and the Supervisory 13.0% relative to net earnings compared to 13.3% in the previous year. Board and the Board of Management of PUMA AG were authorized to grant subscription Appropriation of the net income of PUMA SE rights to the members of the Board of Management and other executives of the Company and of affiliated subsidiary companies for five years (after the registration of the conditional T.48 capital in the commercial register), but at least for three months after the end of the Annual 2011 2010 General Meeting in 2013. The term of the subscription rights issued or to be issued is five years and these subscripNet income of PUMA SE as of December 31 € million 95.0 75.0 tion rights can be exercised after two years at the earliest, provided, however, that the price Dividends per share € 2.00 1.80 of the PUMA share has increased by at least 20% as of the grant date. In contrast to tradiNumber of circulating shares * share 14.934.633 14.915.053 tional stock option programs, the equivalent amount of the increase in value of the PUMA Dividends total * € million 29.9 26.8 share since the grant date is serviced with shares, whereby the beneficiary pays an option Carried forward to the new accounting period * € million 65.1 48.2 price of € 2.56 per share granted if the share was issued as part of a capital increase. Furthermore, pursuant to the authorization, the Administrative Board, in accordance with the recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code, may limit, fully or partially, the * Previous year‘s values adjusted to the outcome of the Annual General Meeting scope and contents of subscription rights issued to the company’s managing directors in the event of extraordinary unforeseen developments. This option is also available to the Non-Controlling Interests (previously Minority Interests) managing directors with respect to the other executives concerned. The non-controlling interest remaining as of the balance sheet date relates to a company in the Brandon Company AB sub-group with € 0.0 million (previous year: € 0.2 million) as well as PUMA Wheat Accessories, LLC with € 0.1 million and Janed, LLC with € 0.6 million, which have joined the group of consolidated companies in 2011. Capital Management The Group’s objective is to retain a strong equity base in order to maintain both investor and market confidence and to strengthen future business performance. Capital management relates to the consolidated equity of PUMA, which is shown in the consolidated balance sheet as well as the reconciliation statement concerning “Changes in Equity”. clever little report 2011 P : 176 | C : 8 Financial Statements The following parameters were used for the determination of the fair value: Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option is € 53.49 for “Tranche II 2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, the expenses for the current financial year T.49 SOP 2008 2008 2008 2008 amount to a total of € 0.9 million. Tranche I Tranche II Tranche III Tranche IV Of the outstanding options, 500 options belong to the previous Board of Management of PUMA AG. Share price as of the grant date € 199.27 € 147.27 € 250.50 € 199.95 Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option is € 61.81 for “Tranche III Expected volatility 29.1% 47.7% 34.5% 29.2% 2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, the expenses for the current financial year Expected dividend payment 1.50% 2.31% 1.30% 1.30% amount to a total of € 3.7 million. Risk-free interest rate, Board of MaOf the outstanding options, 95,193 options belong to the previous Board of Management of 4.60% 1.97% 1.60% 2.40% nagement PUMA AG. Risk-free interest rate, executive staff 4.60% 1.97% 1.60% 2.40% Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option is € 40.14 for “Tranche IV 2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, the expenses for the current financial year amount to a total of € 1.9 million. A total of 116,837 options belong to the previous Board of The historical volatility during the year prior to the date of valuation was used to determine Management of PUMA AG at the end of the year. the expected volatility. Changes in the “SOP” program during the financial year: Explanation of “SAR” In addition to the SOP programs, there were also stock appreciation rights (SARs) issued within the scope of the Long-Term Incentive Program in 2004 and 2006 T.50 SOP 2008 2008 2008 2008 to members of the Board of Management of PUMA AG, members of the company organs of Tranche I Tranche II Tranche III Tranche IV affiliated companies and to the executive staff of PUMA AG and of affiliated companies that are responsible for the long-term increase in corporate value. Issue date 07/21/2008 04/14/2009 04/22/2010 04/15/2011 The maturity of vested option rights under the “SAR 2004” program is five years after issuAmount issued 113.000 139.002 126.184 151.290 ance. The option rights can be exercised after a vesting period of two years at the earliest. Exercise price € 0.00 € 0.00 € 2.56 € 2.56 An exercise gain results from the positive difference between the current share price in the Residual term 1.58 years 2.25 years 3.25 years 4.25 years event of a virtual sale and the exercise price. A minimum exercise gain of 4% and a maximum Circulating as of January 1, 2011 96,500 135,002 126,184 0 exercise gain of 50% were agreed upon for tranche III (2006/2011). Tranches I, II, IV and V were completed in the previous years. Tranche III expired in financial year 2011. Exercised -85,100 -127,502 0 0 Under the “SAR 2006” program, the maturity of option rights is a total of five years as of Ø-share price upon exercise 238.19 224.99 n.a. n.a. the receipt of the declaration of acceptance. Option rights may be exercised after a vestExpired/reactivated -500 -500 -9,991 -12,453 ing period of one year at the earliest, whereby a maximum of 25% can be exercised in the Outstanding as of December 31, 2011 10,900 7,000 116,193 138,837 second year, a maximum of 50% in the third year, a maximum of 75% in the fourth year, and the full 100% in the last year only. Options can only be exercised if, on the exercise date, the exercise price relative to the allotment price increased by at least 20% in the second year, by at least 24% in the third year, by at least 27% in the fourth year, and by at least 29% in As of the date of allocation, the average fair value per option is € 49.44 for “Tranche I the fifth year (exercise barrier). Each stock appreciation right entitles the holder to realize 2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no expenses for the current finanas profits the positive difference between the share price as of the exercise date however cial year. Of the outstanding options, 4,400 belong to the previous Board of Management no more than twice the amount of the allotment price and the allotment price plus the of PUMA AG. respective exercise barrier. The allotment price was calculated from the average XETRA clever little report 2011 P : 177 | C : 8 Financial Statements closing prices for the 20 trading days preceding the issuance. The program expired in fiOther operating income and expenses are allocated based on functional areas as follows: nancial year 2011. Changes in the “SAR” program during the financial year: T.52 2011 2010 € million € million T.51 SAR 2004 2006 Tranche III Tranche I Sales and distribution expenses 937.7 850.1 Product development/design 77.0 63.6 Issue date 25/04/2006 01/10/2006 Administrative and general expenses 195.3 178.9 Amount issued 150,000 66,250 Other operating expenses 1.210.0 1.092.6 Exercise price € 345.46 € 317.23 Other operating income 32.2 35.5 € 341.02 Total 1.177.8 1.057.1 Residual term 0 years 0 years Of which depreciation/amortization and impairment expenses 63.4 66.0 Circulating as of January 1, 2011 150,000 37,750 Of which currency conversion differences (income with minus sign) 0.0 -3.7 Exercised 0 0 Expired -150,000 -37,750 Circulating as of December 31, 2011 0 0 Within the sales and distribution expenses, marketing/retail expenses account for a large proportion of the operating expenses. In addition to advertising and promotional expenses, they also include expenses associated with the Group’s retail activities. Other sales and The program launched in 2004 resulted in an income of € 0.1 million in the current year. The distribution expenses include warehousing expenses and other variable sales and distribuoption rights were held by the previous Board of Management of PUMA AG. The program tion expenses. that was launched in 2006 resulted in an income of € 0.0 million in the current year. Administrative and general expenses include expenses for the statutory auditor of PUMA SE in the amount of € 0.7 million (previous year: € 0.6 million). Of these, € 0.5 million (pre22. Other Operating Income and Expenses vious year: € 0.5 million) are for statutory audit services, € 0.1 million (previous year: € 0.1 According to the respective functions, other operating income and expenses include personmillion) for tax advisory services and € 0.1 million (previous year: € 0.0 million) for other nel, advertising, sales and distribution expenses as well as rental and leasing expenditures, services. travel costs, legal and consulting expenses and other general administrative expenses. Other operating income includes € 25.4 million (previous year: € 28.3 million) relating to Typical operational income that is associated with operating expenses was offset. Rental income from the allocation of development costs and € 6.8 million (previous year: € 7.2 miland lease expenses associated with the Group’s own retail outlets include sales-dependent lion) relating to further other income. rental components. clever little report 2011 P : 178 | C : 8 Financial Statements Overall, other operating expenses include personnel costs, which consist of: 23. Financial Results The financial results consist of: T.53 2011 2010 € million € million 2011 2010 T.55 € million € million Wages and salaries 308.1 276.6 Social security contributions 42.2 36.7 Income from associated companies 1.1 1.8 Expenses from option programs 6.5 5.9 Interest income 5.2 4.4 Expenses for old-age pension and other personnel expenses 37.1 34.9 Financial income 5.2 4.4 Total 393.8 354.1 Interest expense -8.4 -5.9 Interest accrued on purchase price liabilities from acquisitions of business entities -2.7 -4.3 In addition, cost of sales includes personnel costs in the amount of € 11.4 million (previous Valuation of pension plans -1.1 -1.3 year: € 7.5 million). Currency conversion differences -6.9 0.0 Financial expenses -19.1 -11.5 The annual average number of full-time employees was as follows: Financial results -12.8 -5.3 T.54 2011 2010 Income from associated companies results exclusively from the shareholding in WilderMarketing/retail/sales 6,689 6,284 ness Holdings Ltd. (also see paragraph 12). Product development/design 861 659 Interest income results from financial investments. Administrative and general units 2,493 2,370 Interest expenses relate to short-term liabilities to banks. Total annual average 10,043 9,313 In addition, financial expenses include currency conversion differences in the amount of € 6.9 million (previous year: € 0.0 million), which are attributable to financing activities. As of the end of the year, a total of 10,836 individuals were employed (previous year: 9,697) on a full-time basis. clever little report 2011 P : 179 | C : 8 Financial Statements 24. Income Taxes Withholding tax expenses in an amount of € 10.9 million (previous year: € 6.0 million) were allocated to other effects. T.56 2011 2010 The tax effect resulting from items that are directly credited or debited to equity is shown € million € million directly in the statement of comprehensive income. Current income taxes 25. Earnings per Share Germany 14.1 12.4 The earnings per share are determined in accordance with IAS 33 by dividing the consolOther countries 88.6 82.6 idated annual surplus (consolidated net earnings) attributable to the shareholder of the Total current income taxes 102.7 95.0 parent company by the average number of circulating shares. Potential shares from the Deferred Taxes -12.7 4.3 management incentive program may lead to a dilution of this indicator (see paragraph 21). The calculation is shown in the table below: Total 90.0 99.3 T.58 2011 2010 In general, PUMA SE and its German subsidiaries are subject to corporate income tax, plus Consolidated net earnings € million 230,1 202,2 a solidarity surcharge, and trade tax. Thus, a weighted mixed tax rate of 27.22% applied for the financial year. Average number of circulating shares share 14,981,387 15,030,618 Reconciliation of the theoretical tax expense with the effective tax expense: Diluted number of shares share 14,984,545 15,122,918 Earnings per share € 15,36 13,45 T.57 2011 2010 Earnings per share, diluted € 15,36 13,37 € million € million Earnings before income taxes 320.4 301.5 Theoretical tax expense 26. Management of the Currency Risk Tax rate of the PUMA SE = 27.22% (previous year: 27.22%) 87.2 82.1 In financial year 2011, PUMA designated ‘forward purchase USD' currency derivatives as Taxation difference with respect to other countries -12.7 -9.2 cash flow hedges in order to hedge the payable amount of purchases denominated in USD, Other tax effects: which is converted to Euro. The nominal amounts of open rate hedging transactions, which relate mainly to cash flow Income taxes for previous years -9.9 -3.0 hedges, refer to currency forward transactions in a total amount of € 632.6 million (previLosses and temporary differences for which no tax claims were recognized 21.9 13.4 ous year: € 525.9 million). Cash flows from the underlying transactions are expected in 2012. Changes in tax rate -1.0 0.1 Non-deductible expenses and non-taxable income and other effects 4.5 15.9 Effective tax expense 90.0 99.3 Effective tax rate 28.1% 32.9% clever little report 2011 P : 180 | C : 8 Financial Statements The market values of open rate hedging transactions consist of: sales of the respective region are eliminated. The allocation of the remaining segment information is also determined on the basis of the respective group company’s head office. T.59 2011 2010 The totals equal the amounts in the income statement and the balance sheet. € million € million The regions are subdivided into EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Americas (North and Latin America) and Asia/Pacific. Forward currency contracts, assets (see paragraph 7) 28.7 3.3 The segments’ internal sales are generated on the basis of market prices. Forward currency contracts, liabilities (see paragraphs 14 and 15) -2.2 -21.3 Investments and depreciation/amortization relate to additions and depreciation/amortizaNet 26.5 -18.0 tion of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other non-current assets during the current financial year. In addition, total impairment expenses in the amount of € 6.2 million (previous year: € 10.8 million) were taken into account in the following segments, The changes in effective cash flow hedges are shown in the schedule of changes in shareEMEA (€ 2.6 million, previous year: € 7.7 million), Americas (€ 3.3 million, previous year: holders’ equity and the statement of comprehensive income. Risks are discussed in great€ 2.9 million), Asia/Pacific (€ 0.1 million, previous year: € 0.2 million) and central units / coner detail in the group management report. solidation (€ 0.2 million, previous year: € 0.0 million). Since PUMA is active in only one business area, and namely that of the sporting goods 27. Segment Reporting industry, sales and gross profit are allocated based on products, i.e. according to the footSegment reporting is based on geographical regions in accordance with the internal wear, apparel and accessories product segments in accordance with the internal reporting reporting structure. Sales and operating results (EBIT) are shown according to the head structure. Operating results and the vast majority of asset and liability items cannot be office of the respective group company of the corresponding region. The intercompany allocated in a reasonable manner. clever little report 2011 P : 181 | C : 8 operating segments Financial Statements REGION External sales EBIT Investment T.60 1-12 / 2011 1-12 / 2010 1-12 / 2011 1-12 / 2010 1-12 / 2011 1-12 / 2010 € million € million € million € million € million € million EMEA 1,247.5 1,157.3 56.6 67.8 38.7 41.4 Americas 910.3 828.4 89.7 85.2 19.3 13.5 Asia / Pacific 667.9 577.0 48.3 45.4 13.5 9.6 Central units/consolidation 183.4 143.6 138.5 139.4 17.0 144.2 Special Items -31.0 Total 3,009.0 2,706.4 333.2 306.8 88.5 208.8 REGION Depreciation Inventories Trade receivable T.61 1-12 / 2011 1-12 / 2010 1-12 / 2011 1-12 / 2010 1-12 / 2011 1-12 / 2010 € million € million € million € million € million € million EMEA 17.9 19.8 294.5 242.7 215.4 190.8 Americas 13.4 14.1 143.2 118.6 163.5 130.1 Asia / Pacific 8.5 8.2 83.6 70.0 126.7 97.9 Central units/consolidation 17.6 13.1 15.5 8.4 27.5 28.2 Total 57.4 55.2 536.8 439.7 533.1 447.0 product External sales Gross profit margin T.62 1-12 / 2011 1-12 / 2010 1-12 / 2011 1-12 / 2010 € million € million € million € million Footwear 1,539.5 1,424.8 49.1% 48.9% Apparel 1,035.6 941.3 49.6% 50.6% Accessories 433.9 340.3 51.6% 50.6% Total 3,009.0 2,706.4 49.6% 49.7% clever little report 2011 P : 182 | C : 8 Financial Statements T.63 Transition to EBT 1-12 / 2011 1-12 / 2010 € million € million EBIT 333.2 306.8 Financial results -12.8 -5.3 EBT 320.4 301.5 28. Notes to the Cash Flow Statement As of the balance sheet date, the obligations from future minimum rental payments for opThe cash flow statement was prepared in accordance with IAS 7 and is structured based erating lease agreements are as follows: on cash flows from operating, investment and financing activities. The indirect method is used to determine the cash inflow from operating activities. The gross cash flow, derived T.64 2011 2010 from earnings before income taxes and adjusted for non-cash income and expense items, € million € million is determined within the cash flow from operating activities. Cash inflow from operating Under rental and lease agreements: activities, reduced by investments in property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets is referred to as “free cash flow”. 2012 (2011) 105.3 92.9 The financial resource fund reported in the cash flow statement includes all payment meth2013 2016 (2012 – 2015) 212.3 193.0 ods and equivalent payment methods shown under “Cash and cash equivalents”, i.e., cash from 2017 (from 2016) 62.1 71.4 in hand, checks and bank balances. 29. Contingencies and Contingent Liabilities Further Other Financial Obligations Furthermore, the Company has other financial obligaContingencies As in the previous year, there were no reportable contingencies. tions associated with license, promotional and advertising agreements, which give rise to the following financial obligations as of the balance sheet date: Contingent Liabilities There were no reportable contingent liabilities. With respect to the legal dispute with the former Spanish licensee, Estudio 2000, please T.65 2011 2010 refer to the explanations in the Outlook section of the Group Management Report. € million € million 30. Other Financial Obligations Under license, promotional and advertising agreements: Obligations From Operating Lease The Company rents and leases offices, warehouses, facili2012 (2011) 92.1 88.3 ties and fleets of vehicles and sales rooms for its own retail business. Rental agreements 2013 2016 (2012 – 2015) 239.2 163.3 for the retail business are concluded for terms of between five and fifteen years. The refrom 2017 (from 2016) 72.8 6.1 maining rental and lease agreements have residual terms of between one and five years. Some agreements include options of renewal and price adjustment clauses. Total expenses resulting from these agreements amounted in 2011 to € 118.3 million (previIn addition, there are obligations concerning the provision of sports equipment under sponous year: € 115.7 million). Some of the expenses are sales based. soring agreements. clever little report 2011 P : 183 | C : 8 Financial Statements compensation, such as use of company cars and insurance coverage. In principle, these 31. B oard of Management / Managing Directors and benefits are granted to all members of the Board of Management / Managing Directors in Supervisory Board / Administrative Board an equal manner and are included in the non-performance-based compensation. Disclosures pursuant to Section 314(1)(6) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) The bonus, as part of the performance-based compensation, is primarily based on the In accordance with the Act on Disclosure of Management Board Compensation of August PUMA Group’s operating profit and free cash flow and is staggered in accordance with the 3, 2005, the Annual General Meeting may independently pass resolutions on the scope of achievement of goals. An upper limit is also agreed upon. disclosing Board of Management compensation. In accordance with the legal provisions, The performance-based compensation component with a long-term incentive effect (stock disclosure of the individual earnings of the members of the Board of Management may be appreciation rights) is generally determined as part of multiannual planning. The numdispensed with for a period of 5 years (and as of July 25, 2011: of the Managing Directors ber of stock appreciation rights issued is measured as a component of total compensapursuant to section 286(5); section 285(1)(9)(a) sentences 5 8; section 314(2)(2); section tion. The fair value of the respective stock appreciation rights as of the date of allocation 314(1)(6)(a) sentences 5 8 of the German Commercial Code, if the Annual General Meeting is used for this measurement. The possibility of a cap limit is considered in case of expasses a resolution in this regard by a 75% majority. traordinary, unforeseen developments. Details on the parameters used for the respective Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting of April 22, 2008, the Company programs are provided in section 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statewas authorized to refrain from disclosures pursuant to section 285(1)(9)(a) sentences 5 8 ments. and section 314(1)(6)(a) sentences 5 8 of the German Commercial Code with respect to The fixed compensation for the seven Board of Management members and the five Managthe financial year beginning on January 1, 2008 and all subsequent financial years ending ing Directors amounted to € 4.9 million (previous year: € 5.9 million) in the financial year and December 31, 2012 at the latest. variable bonuses came to € 2.6 million (previous year: € 5.9 million). The Managing Directors and the Board of Management are of the opinion that the shareFollowing the allocation of expenses to the vesting period, the expenses resulting from new holders’ justified interest in information is sufficiently accounted for by the disclosure of options and those issued in previous years amounted to a total of € 3.8 million (previous the total compensation of the members of the Board of Management / Managing Directors. year: € 4.7 million). The Board of Management / Managing Directors were granted a total of The Administrative Board will ensure the appropriateness of the individual compensation in 129,290 options from the SOP 2008 program in the financial year. The fair value was € 40.15 accordance with its statutory duties. per option as of the grant date. The Board of Management / the Managing Directors receive pension benefits, for which the Board of Management / Managing Directors The compensation of the members of the Board Company took out a pension liability insurance policy. The proportion of the pension capital of Management, which was determined by the Supervisory Board, and the compensation of that is already financed through contributions to the pension liability insurance is deemed the Managing Directors, which is determined by the Administrative Board, consists of nonto be vested. € 0.4 million (previous year: € 1.2 million) was allocated for Board of Manageperformance-based and performance-based components. The non-performance-based ment members / Managing Directors in the financial year. The present value of the pension components consist of a fixed salary and non-cash compensation, whereas the perforbenefits granted to Managing Directors in the amount of € 0.2 million (previous year: € 5.2 mance-based components consist of bonuses and components with a long-term incentive million) as at December 31, 2011 was offset against the pledged asset value of the pension effect (stock appreciation rights). The criteria for measuring the total compensation inliability insurance policy, which was of an equal amount. As a result of changes in the memclude, in addition to the duties and services performed by the Board of Management members of the Board of Management and Managing Directors, as at the balance sheet date ber or Managing Director, the economic situation, the long-term strategic planning and pension obligations were transferred from active members to former members. associated objectives, the sustainability of the achieved results, the long-term prospects of Pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management amounted to € 9.4 milthe Company’s success, and international benchmark comparisons. lion (previous year: € 3.5 million) and are accordingly recognized as liabilities under pension Fixed salary as non-performance-based basic compensation is paid out monthly. In adprovisions unless they are offset against asset values of an equal amount. Pensions were dition, the members of the Board of Management / Managing Directors receive non-cash paid in the amount of € 0.2 million (previous year: € 0.1 million). clever little report 2011 P : 184 | C : 8 Financial Statements Supervisory Board / Administrative Board In accordance with the Articles of Association, the In addition, each member of the Administrative Board receives a performance-based comSupervisory Board consisted of six members. In accordance with the Articles of Associapensation corresponding to € 20.00 per € 0.01 of the earnings per share shown in the contion, the Administrative Board has at least three members; it currently consists of nine solidated financial statements, which exceeds a minimum amount of € 16.00 per share. The members. The compensation of the Supervisory Board/Administrative Board is comprised performance-based compensation amounts to a maximum of € 10,000 per year. The Chairof a fixed and a performance-based component man of the Administrative Board receives twice this amount (maximum € 20,000), the Vice Chairman receives one and a half times this amount (maximum € 15,000) in compensation. Supervisory Board The fixed annual compensation for each member amounted to € 30,000. Since earnings per share are below the minimum amount in the financial year, no perforThe Chairman of the Supervisory Board received twice this amount and the Vice Chairman mance-based compensation is paid. received one and a half times this amount in compensation. The total fixed compensation The compensation of the Administrative Board for the year of conversion is subject to aupro rata temporis until July 24, 2011 amounted to a total of € 126,400 (in the previous year a thorization by the Annual General Meeting, which decides on the discharge of the members total of € 225,000). of the Administrative Board. The performance-based compensation amounted to € 20.00 per € 0.01 of the earnings per share (before dilution) shown in the consolidated financial statements, which exceeds a min32. Related Party Relationships imum amount of € 16.00, but does not exceed € 10,000 per year. The Chairman of the SuperIn accordance with IAS 24, relationships with related parties that control or are controlled visory Board received twice this amount and the Vice Chairman received one and a half times by the PUMA Group must be reported unless such related parties are already included as this amount in compensation. Since earnings per share were below the minimum amount in consolidated companies in the consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE. Control is the financial year, as in the previous year, no performance-based compensation is paid. defined as the ability to determine an entity’s financial and business policies and benefit from its activities. Administrative Board In accordance with the Articles of Association, each member of the AdSAPARDIS S.E. (formerly SAPARDIS S.A.) presently holds over 75% of the subscribed capiministrative Board receives a fixed annual compensation in the amount of € 25,000. The tal of PUMA SE. PPR S.A., Paris, acts as the controlling parent company. Consequently, all fixed compensation is increased by an additional fixed annual amount of € 25,000 for the companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by PPR S.A. and are not included in the Chairman of the Administrative Board, € 12,500 for the Vice Chairman of the Administraconsolidated financial statements of PUMA SE are defined as related parties. tive Board, € 10,000 for the Chairman of a committee (with the exception of the Nominating In addition, the disclosure obligation pursuant to IAS 24 also extends to transactions with Committee) and € 5,000 for each members of a committee (with the exception of the Nomiassociated companies as well as transactions with other related parties. These include, in nating Committee). The pro rata temporis compensation for the financial year is € 122,700. particular, non-controlling shareholders (formerly referred to as minority shareholders). clever little report 2011 P : 185 | C : 8 Financial Statements Transactions with related parties largely concern the sale of goods and services. These Deliveries and services rendered Deliveries and services received T.66 2011 2010 2011 2010 € million € million € million € million PPR Group consolidated companies 10.0 11.9 1.9 1.2 Other related parties 8.7 10.5 3.1 5.9 Total 18.7 22.4 5.0 7.1 Net receivables from Payables to T.67 1-12/ 2011 1-12/2010 1-12/ 2011 1-12/2010 € Mio. € Mio. € Mio. € Mio. PPR Group consolidated companies 2.1 1.8 0.8 0.2 Other related parties 3.4 1.3 0.0 0.1 Total 5.5 3.0 0.8 0.3 sales were concluded under normal market conditions that are also customary with third Supervisory Board and of the Administrative Board of the PUMA Group are related parties parties. within the meaning of IAS 24. The services and compensation of this group of individuals is The following overview illustrates the scope of the business relationships: shown in paragraph 31. During the reporting year, PUMA SE, together with its associated company, PPR Finance SNC, acquired a confirmed credit line in the amount of € 100.0 million as well as an unconAs part of consulting, service and employment contracts, members of the Supervisory firmed liquidity line of up to € 200.0 million. Interest income in the amount of € 77,000 was Board and of the Administrative Board received compensation from PUMA in the amount received from short-term investments of up to 3 months within the scope of the liquidity of € 2.9 million. line of PPR Finance SNC. In addition, in 2011 PUMA SE started to enter into currency hedging transactions through PPR Finance SNC. 33. Corporate Governance Receivables from related parties are, with one exception, not subject to value adjustments. The Managing Directors and the Administrative Board have submitted the required compliOnly with respect to the receivables from a non-controlling shareholder and its group of ance declaration with respect to the recommendations issued by the Government Comcompanies, gross receivables in the amount of € 52.1 million (previous year: € 52.3 million) mission German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Section 161 of the AktG (Aktiengwere adjusted in value for a subsidiary of PUMA SE in Greece as of December 31, 2011. In esetz, German Stock Corporation Act) and published it on the Company’s website (www. financial year 2011, no expenses were recorded in this regard (previous year: € 15.2 million). puma.com). Please also refer to the Corporate Governance Report in the Management The Board of Management and the Managing Directors as well as the members of the Report of PUMA SE. clever little report 2011 P : 186 | C : 8 Financial Statements 34. Events after the Balance Sheet Date As already announced in the publication of May 20, 2011, in January 2012 PUMA acquired the remaining 49.9% of shares in the Dutch licensee, Dobotex, which makes and distributes PUMA brand socks and body wear. As of the balance sheet date, the purchase price was already included in the current liabilities from the acquisition of business enterprises. There were no other events after the balance sheet date, that have a significant impact on the net assets, financial position and results of operations. Responsibility Statement (“Bilanzeid”) We state to the best of our knowledge that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with the applicable accounting principles, and that the Group Management Report provides a true and fair view of the course of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and opportunities associated with the expected performance of the Group. Date of Release The Managing Directors of PUMA SE released the consolidated financial statements on February 6, 2012 for distribution to the Administrative Board. The Administrative Board must review the consolidated financial statements and state whether it approves them. Herzogenaurach, February 6, 2012 Managing Directors Koch Bauer Caroti Seiz Bertone clever little report 2011 P : 187 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Independent Statutory Auditor’s Report Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE and its from material misstatement. subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position, the conAn audit involves performing audit procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts solidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The selection of audit procedures equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows and the notes to the consolidated financial depends on the auditor’s professional judgment. This includes the assessment of the risks statements for the business year from January 1 through December 31, 2011. of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In assessing those risks, the auditor considers the internal control system relevant Managing Direc tors’ Responsibil i t y for the Consol idated F inanci al S tatements The Managing to the entity’s preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view. Directors of PUMA SE are responsible for the preparation of these consolidated financial The aim of this is to plan and perform audit procedures that are appropriate in the given statements. This responsibility includes that these consolidated financial statements are circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the group’s internal control system. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the 315a(1) HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code) and that these consolidatBoard of Managing Directors/ Managing Directors, as well as evaluating the overall preed financial statements give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and sentation of the consolidated financial statements. results of operations of the group in accordance with these requirements. The Board of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide Managing Directors is / Managing Directors are also responsible for the internal controls a basis for our audit opinion. as the Board of Managing Directors/ Managing Directors determine(s) are necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material Audi t Op inion According to section 322( 3) sentence 1 HGB, we state that our audit of the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. consolidated financial statements has not led to any reservations. Audi tor’s Responsibil i t y Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated In our opinion based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comfinancial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with section ply, in all material respects, with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and the additional require317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements ments of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) HGB and give a true and fair promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) view of the net assets and financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2011 as well (IDW) and additionally observed the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Accordingly, as the results of operations for the business year then ended, in accordance with these we are required to comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to requirements. clever little report 2011 P : 188 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Report on the Group Management Report We have audited the accompanying group management report of PUMA SE of the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2011. The Managing Directors of PUMA SE are responsible for the preparation of the group management report in accordance with the requirements of German commercial law applicable pursuant to section 315a(1) HGB. We conducted our audit in accordance with section 317(2) HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of the group management report promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW). Accordingly, we are required to plan and perform the audit of the group management report to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the audit findings, as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. According to section 322(3) sentence 1 HGB we state, that our audit of the group management report has not led to any reservations. In our opinion based on the findings of our audit of the consolidated financial statements and group management report, the group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Frankfurt am Main, February 6, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dr. Ulrich Störk Bernd Wagner German Public Auditor German Public Auditor clever little report 2011 P : 189 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT FICIAL OF Board of Management & Supervisory Board of PUMA AG and Managing Directors & Administrative Board of PUMA SE / Report of the Administrative Board REP ORT chapter: Board of Management of PUMA AG (until July 24, 2011) 191 Supervisory Board of PUMA AG (until July 24, 2011) 192 9 Managing Directors of PUMA SE (from July 25, 2011) 193 Administrative Board of PUMA SE (from July 25, 2011) 194 Report of the Administrative Board 196 P : 191 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT BOARD OF MANAGEMENT of PUMA AG (until July 24, 2011) Jochen Zeitz Franz Koch (Chairman of the Board of Management) (from April 27, 2011) Membership in other supervisory boards and similar organs: » Global Strategy PPR, Paris/France (non-voting member) Harley-Davidson Inc., Milwaukee/USA Melody Harris-Jensbach Reiner Seiz (Vice Chairwoman of the Board of Management) » Procurement » Product (Deputy Member of the Board of Management) Klaus Bauer Antonio Bertone » Finance, Law, Operations, Logistics, IT, Human Resources » Marketing (Deputy Member of the Board of Management) Stefano Caroti » Sales clever little report 2011 P : 192 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT SUPERVISORY BOARD of PUMA AG (until July 24, 2011) François-Henri Pinault Jean-François Palus (Chairman) Paris France Paris France Directeur Général Délégué / Directeur Financier of PPR, Paris / France Président-Directeur Général of PPR, Paris / France Membership in other supervisory boards and similar bodies: Membership in other supervisory boards and similar bodies: Gucci Group NV, Amsterdam / The Netherlands Boucheron Holding S.A., Paris / France CFAO, Sèvres / France Yves Saint Laurent S.A.S., Paris / France Conforama Holding, Lognes Marne la Vallée / France Gucci Group NV, Amsterdam / The Netherlands FNAC, Ivry sur Seine / France FNAC, Ivry sur Seine / France SAPARDIS, Paris / France SAPARDIS, Paris / France Soft Computing, Paris / France Grégoire Amigues Christie’s International, London / United Kingdom Paris, France Sowind Group (Vice President), La Chaux-de-Fonds / Switzerland Directeur du Plan et de la Stratégie of PPR, Paris / France Bouygues, Paris / France Membership in other supervisory boards and similar bodies: CFAO (Vice President), Sèvres / France SAPARDIS, Paris / France Artemis (Chairman), Paris / France LUMINOSA, Paris / France Thore Ohlsson Erwin Hildel (Vice Chairman) (Employee Representative) Falsterbo, Sweden Herzogenaurach, Germany President of Elimexo AB, Falsterbo / Sweden Head of Sales Support and Customer Service Membership in other supervisory boards and similar bodies: Nobia AB, Stockholm / Sweden Oliver Burkhardt Bastec AB (Chairman), Malmö / Sweden (Employee Representative) Elite Hotels AB, Stockholm / Sweden Möhrendorf, Germany Tretorn AB, Helsingborg / Sweden Project Manager IT Solutions T. Frick AB (Chairman), Vellinge / Sweden T.M.C. AB (Chairman), Skanör / Sweden Kistamässan AB, Kista / Sweden clever little report 2011 P : 193 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Managing Directors of PUMA SE (from July 25, 2011) Franz Koch Reiner Seiz (CEO) (Procurement) Klaus Bauer Antonio Bertone (Finance, Law, Operations, Logistics, IT, Human Resources) (Marketing) Stefano Caroti (Sales) clever little report 2011 P : 194 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Administrative (from July 25, 2011) Board of PUMA SE Jochen Zeitz Thore Ohlsson (Chairman) Falsterbo, Sweden Montrichet / Switzerland President of Elimexo AB, Falsterbo / Sweden Head of PPR S.A.‘s Sport and Lifestyle division, Paris/France Membership of other supervisory boards and similar bodies: Membership of other supervisory boards and similar bodies: Nobia AB, Stockholm / Sweden Harley-Davidson Inc., Milwaukee/USA Bastec AB, Malmö / Sweden Wilderness Holdings Ltd., Maun/Botswana Elite Hotels AB, Stockholm / Sweden Tomas Frick AB, Vellinge / Sweden TJugonde AB, Malmö / Sweden François-Henri Pinault Tretorn AB, Helsingborg /Sweden (Vice Chairman) Cobra Golf Inc., Carlsbad / USA Paris, France Président-Directeur Général of PPR S.A., Paris / France Membership of other supervisory boards and similar bodies: Jean-François Palus Christie’s International Ltd., London / United Kingdom Paris, France Bouygues S.A., Paris/France Directeur Général Délégué and member of the Conseil d’Administration of PPR S.A., Sowind Group S.A., La Chaux-de-Fonds /Switzerland Paris / France, responsible for strategy, operations and organisation Soft Computing S.A., Paris/France Membership of other supervisory boards and similar bodies: Boucheron Holding S.A.S, Paris/France Yves Saint Laurent S.A.S., Paris / France Yves Saint Laurent S.A.S., Paris/France Gucci Group NV, Amsterdam / The Netherlands Gucci Group NV, Amsterdam / The Netherlands FNAC S.A., Ivry sur Seine / France FNAC S.A., Ivry sur Seine /France SAPARDIS SE, Paris / France SAPARDIS SE, Paris/France CFAO S.A., Sèvres / France CFAO S.A., Sèvres / France Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa / USA Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa / USA Caumartin Participations S.A.S., Paris/France clever little report 2011 P : 195 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT L.G.I. S.A., Cadempino/Switzerland (Employee Representative) Redcats S.A., Roubaix/France Bechhofen, Germany PPR AMERICAS INC., Wilmington/Delaware/USA Specialist IT User & System Support for PUMA SE GUCCI Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg/Luxembourg Martin Köppel Grégoire Amigues (Employee Representative) Paris, France Weisendorf, Germany Directeur of strategy and development of PPR S.A., Paris/France Administrator IT Microsoft Systems for PUMA SE Membership of other supervisory boards and similar bodies: Caumartin Participations S.A.S., Paris/France SAPARDIS SE, Paris/France Victor Fernandes LUMINOSA S.A., Paris/France (Employee Representative) Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa/USA Strasburg, France Redcats S.A., Roubaix/France Software Developer for PUMA France Michel Friocourt Paris, France Directeur Juridique Groupe of PPR S.A., Paris/France Membership of other supervisory boards and similar bodies: Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa/USA Gucci Luxembourg SA, Luxembourg Bottega Veneta International Sárl, Luxembourg Sergio Rossi International Sárl, Luxembourg Bottega Veneta Holding BV, Amsterdam/The Netherlands Gucci International BV, Amsterdam/The Netherlands Scholefield Goodman BV, Amsterdam/The Netherlands Bernd Illig clever little report 2011 P : 196 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Report of the Administrative Board In the following report, the Administrative Board provides information regarding its main areas In the Lifestyle segment, PUMA continued its successful ‘ PUMA Social' campaign during of focus during fiscal year 2011. In accordance with the resolution adopted on April 14, 2011 the past financial year, demonstrating clearly and concisely with its product lines how one by the Annual General Meeting and the July 25, 2011 entry in the Commercial Register, can perfectly combine sports and lifestyle. PUMA AG Rudolf Dassler Sport was converted into a European Company (Societas EuroThese brand initiatives are designed to enhance PUMA’s brand desirability and presence, paea/SE), PUMA SE. Until the conversion, the Supervisory Board advised on and monitored both at international sporting events and in the sports lifestyle segment, thereby making the management activities of the Executive Board. As a result of the change in legal form, PUMA the world‘s most desirable and sustainable sports lifestyle brand. the Company is now run by an Administrative Board (‘single-tier system') which determines The sustainability segment, which is an integral part of PUMA’s corporate strategy, once the Company’s basic business strategies and monitors their implementation by the Managain raised the bar in 2011. PUMA became the first company in the world to publish an aging Directors. Below is an explanation of the main group governance, monitoring and environmental profit and loss statement, in which it quantified the costs of its environmenadvisory tasks handled by the full Administrative board, the work of the committees, the tal impact in a very transparent manner. statutory audits of the legal entity’s annual financial statements and the consolidated Below, we will first discuss the most important activities of the Supervisory Board and its financial statements, relationships with affiliated companies and changes to the company committees up until July 25, 2011 – the date when PUMA SE was entered in the Commercial organs. Register – and we will then describe the most important activities of the Administrative Board and its committees from the registration of PUMA SE in the Commercial Register on Dear Shareholders July 25, 2011 up to and including December 31, 2011. During the past fiscal year, in line with its ‘Back on the Attack' growth plan, PUMA achieved its sales target of € 3 billion and further improved profitability. Moreover, the conversion to Supervisory Board a European Company (SE) has strengthened PUMA’s international focus and enabled it to Until the conversion date, the Supervisory Board performed the duties prescribed by law, press ahead with the strategic development of the Group. the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board and was In 2011, PUMA focused primarily on raising its profile as a sports performance brand. involved in all issues relating to the business performance, financial position and strateThis involved strengthening and expanding the sports marketing portfolio, particularly gic orientation of the PUMA Group. The Supervisory Board diligently and regularly moniin the Team Sports segment. During the past year, PUMA signed contracts with football tored the management activities of the Executive Board, providing advisory support on the players such as Sergio Agüero, Falcao and Cesc Fàbregas, as well as with Borussia Group’s strategic development and on specific key actions. Dortmund, the 2010-2011 German football champions, and the South African national In this regard, the Executive Board provided regular, timely and comprehensive information team. about the Company‘s business policies, all relevant aspects of corporate development and With its new yacht, the ‘ Mar Mostro', PUMA is taking part in the Volvo Ocean Race the corporation planning, the Company‘s economic situation, including its net assets, financial world’s toughest yacht race – for the second time. In addition, PUMA became the official position and results, and all key decisions and business transactions involving the Group. supplier of the redesigned America’s Cup. Since it entered the sailing market in 2008, All the meetings were attended by all members. PUMA‘s innovative, global marketing campaign has helped to establish it as a credible The Supervisory Board discussed all key business transactions in detail, based on reports brand, paving the way for its partnership with the America‘s Cup. by the Executive Board. Any deviations from budgets and targets were explained to the clever little report 2011 P : 197 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Supervisory Board by the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board verified these explanauled meeting of the Supervisory Board. Each meeting was attended by all committee memtions using the supporting documents submitted. The Supervisory Board was involved in bers. These meetings focused on compensation and general contractual issues, the Manall key decisions from an early stage. In addition, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board agement Incentive Program, various HR matters and the selection of the future CEO of and other members of the Supervisory Board maintained regular verbal or written contact PUMA SE. with the Executive Board. Following thorough review and deliberation, the Supervisory Board voted on the reports Audit Committee and resolutions proposed by the Executive Board, to the extent required by law, the Articles The Audit Committee was comprised of the Supervisory Board members Thore Ohlsson of Association and the Rules of Procedure. (Chairman), Jean-François Palus and Oliver Burkhardt. Each month, the Audit Committee received financial data on the PUMA Group, which allowed it to track the development of Focus of Monitoring and Advisory Activities net assets, financial position, results and the order books on a continual basis. The Audit At each individual Supervisory Board meeting, there were numerous items on the agenda Committee held three meetings in 2011, all of which were attended by all members. The that the Supervisory Board discussed in depth with the Executive Board. These discussions Audit Committee also addressed accounting policy issues relating to the balance sheet did not give rise to any doubts that the Executive Board was managing the Group in anything and profit and loss account, and discussed these with Management. After the Supervisory other than a lawful and proper manner. Board appointed the auditors for fiscal year 2011, the Audit Committee discussed the audit In PUMA Aktiengesellschaft Rudolf Dassler Sport’s last fiscal year through July 25, 2011, assignment and the audit areas of focus with the auditors. the focus was primarily on the following issues: Administrative Board » Audit and approval of the 2010 annual financial statements On April 14, 2011, PUMA AG’s regular Annual General Meeting adopted a resolution appoint» Setting the agenda for the regular 2011 Annual General Meeting ing Jochen Zeitz, François-Henri Pinault, Jean-François Palus, Grégoire Amigues, Thore » Corporate Governance, compliance and the internal control system Ohlsson and Michel Friocourt to the first Administrative Board of PUMA SE as shareholder » Share buyback program representatives of the Administrative Board pursuant to Section 7(3) of PUMA SE’s Articles » Sustainability program and PUMA Vision of Association. » PUMA re-engineering and process optimization In a decision dated April 13, 2011, the Fürth Municipal Court appointed Bernd Illig, Martin » Ongoing business development Köppel and Victor Fernandes to the first Administrative Board of PUMA SE as employee » Remedial action and follow-up on the Greek joint venture representatives. » 2011 corporate planning and medium-term planning, including capital expenditures The thus appointed members of the Administrative Board accepted their appointments at » Dividend policy the inaugural meeting of the Administrative Board on April 14, 2011, which was attended » C  onversion of PUMA AG into an SE (Societas Europaea), including preliminary actions by all members. Jochen Zeitz was elected as Chairman and François-Henri Pinault was to switch from a two-tier corporate governance system to a single-tier system with a elected as Vice-Chairman of the Administrative Board. Both men accepted their elecAdministrative Board and Managing Directors tion. This was followed by the appointment of the Managing Directors and their Chairman. Jochen Zeitz was given final negotiating and signing authority over the Managing Directors’ To address these issues, the Supervisory Board reviewed the Company’s financial reports employment agreements. Finally, the Rules of Procedure for the Administrative Board and and records. for the Managing Directors were issued and went into effect. The first regular meeting of the Administrative Board was held on October 24. Eight of the Compensation Committee nine members of the Administrative Board were in attendance. The only item on the agenda The Compensation Committee was comprised of François-Henri Pinault (Chairman), Thore was to make appointments to the committees, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Ohlsson and Erwin Hildel. In 2011, the Compensation Committee met before each schedfor the Administrative Board, and to explain their duties. clever little report 2011 P : 198 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Executive Commit tee: The Executive Committee is comprised of the following members of results for the first nine months of this year, the preliminary estimates of 2011 earnings, the Administrative Board: Jochen Zeitz (Chairman), Michel Friocourt and Martin Köppel. dividend planning for fiscal 2012, the agenda items for the next Annual General Meeting, the The Executive Committee is responsible for organizing Administrative Board meetings and 2012 publication schedule, the potential share buyback and the Statement of Compliance making decisions when instructed by the Administrative Board to do so on its behalf. with the German Corporate Governance Code. The Administrative Board discussed all of the Company’s significant business transactions, Personnel Commit tee: The Personnel Committee is comprised of the following members of based on the reports by the Managing Directors and the committees, and presented its the Administrative Board: François-Henri Pinault (Chairman), Jochen Zeitz and Bernd Illig. own ideas. The Administrative Board verified all of these explanations using the supporting The main areas of focus of the Personnel Committee are matters relating to the Managing documents submitted. The Administrative Board was involved in all key decisions from an Directors, plus the preparation of changes to their contract terms and compensation, sucearly stage. In addition, the Chairman of the Administrative Board and other members of cession planning for Managing Directors, recruiting and retaining talent within the Comthe Administrative Board maintained, and continue to maintain, regular verbal or written pany, securing the employee base and long-term incentives for employees and executives. contact with the Managing Directors. Audit Commit tee: The Audit Committee is comprised of the following members of the Corporate Governance Administrative Board: Thore Ohlsson (Chairman), Jean-François Palus and Bernd Illig. In The German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC), which has not changed since last year, particular, the Audit Committee is responsible for accounting issues and monitoring the contains important legal provisions and recommendations governing the management and accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal control system, the risk management oversight of listed companies and standards for responsible corporate governance. The system, internal audits, compliance and the statutory audit of the financial statements, corporate governance standards have long been a part of the corporate routine. None of with particular regard to the required independence of the statutory auditors, issuing the this will change as a result of the single-tier corporate governance system now in place at audit mandate to the auditors, defining the audit areas of focus, any additional services to PUMA. be performed by the auditors and the fee agreement. Pursuant to paragraph 3.10 of the GCGC, the Managing Directors also report to the Administrative Board on corporate governance in the Corporate Governance Report, which is part Sustainabilit y Commit tee: The Sustainability Committee is comprised of the following memof the Annual Report. With few exceptions, the Company satisfies the requirements of the bers of the Administrative Board: Jochen Zeitz (Chairman), François-Henri Pinault and GCGC and it discloses these exceptions, as well as deviations from the GCGC resulting from Martin Köppel. The Sustainability Committee is responsible for promoting puma.creative, PUMA’s single-tier system, in the Statement of Compliance. The Statement of Compliance puma.safe and puma.peace along with the principles of creativity, sustainability and peace is available to our shareholders at any time on the Company’s website. and an awareness of the need to act fairly, honestly, positively and creatively in every decision made and every action taken. Annual financial statements approved The annual financial statements for PUMA SE prepared in accordance with the German Nominating Commit tee: The Nominating Committee is comprised of the following members Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch/HGB) and the Management Report for fiscal 2011 of the Administrative Board: François-Henri Pinault (Chairman), Jochen Zeitz and Grégoire and the consolidated financial statements and the Consolidated Management Report for Amigues. The Nominating Committee, which consists exclusively of shareholder represenfiscal year 2011 prepared in accordance with section 315a HGB on the basis of Internatatives, is responsible for proposing suitable shareholder-candidates to the Administrative tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) have been audited by the statutory auditors Board for its voting recommendations to the Annual General Meeting. who were appointed by the Annual General Meeting on April 14, 2011 and engaged by the The meeting of the Administrative Board on October 24, 2011 was followed by meetings of the Supervisory Board to audit the separate annual financial statements of the legal entity Personnel Committee, the Audit Committee and the Sustainability Committee. and the consolidated financial statements – PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft The results of these meetings were summarized at another meeting of the Administrative Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main – and have been given an unqualified Board on the same day. This Administrative Board meeting also examined the financial auditor’s opinion. clever little report 2011 P : 199 | C : 9 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT In their report, the statutory auditors conclude that PUMA’s risk management system, in “We have duly examined and assessed the report and hereby certify that: accordance with section 91(2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), is capable of detecting at an early stage and countering any developments that might jeopardize the exis1. the information contained in the report is correct, tence of the Company as a going concern. The Executive Board and the Managing Directors have regularly updated the Supervisory Board and the Administrative Board on all 2. t he payments made by the corporation in the legal transactions listed in the relevant risks in this regard, in particular their assessments of market and procurement report were not unduly high.” risks, financial risks (including currency risks) and organizational risks. The accounting records, the audit reports from the auditors and the Managing Directors’ After a thorough review, the Administrative Board agreed with the Dependent Company recommendation on the appropriation of retained earnings were made available to all Report prepared by the Managing Directors and approved the auditors’ findings. No objecmembers of the Administrative Board in a timely manner. At the meeting of the Audit Comtions were raised. mittee on February 14, 2012 and at the subsequent Administrative Board meeting held on the same day, the auditors reported the key results of their audit and discussed them in Thanks to the Managing Directors and employees detail with the Managing Directors and the members of the Administrative Board. No disWe would like to express our gratitude and recognition to the Managing Directors, the mancrepancies were detected. Further, at today’s meeting, the Managing Directors explained agement teams at the Group companies, the Works Council and all our employees for their to the Administrative Board the disclosures made in the Management Report pursuant to personal dedication, performance and continuing commitment. sections 289(4) and 289(5) and section 315(4) of the German Commercial Code (HGB). Following a thorough audit of the annual financial statements for the legal entity, the ManHerzogenaurach, February 14, 2012 agement Report, the consolidated financial statements and the Consolidated Management Report, the Administrative Board approved the auditors’ results and in accordance with the Audit Committee’s recommendation, approved the annual financial statements for the legal On behalf of the Administrative Board entity and the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2011, which are thereby adopted. The Administrative Board likewise agrees with the Managing Directors’ proposal to disJochen Zeitz tribute a dividend of € 2.00 per share to shareholders for fiscal 2011. The dividend will be Chairman funded from cash and cash equivalents; this will not jeopardize the Company’s liquidity. A total amount of € 29.9 million will be paid out in dividends from PUMA SE’s retained earnings. The remaining retained earnings of € 65.1 million are to be carried forward. Report on relationships with affiliated companies PUMA SE is a dependent company of SAPARDIS S.E., a wholly owned subsidiary of PPR S.A., pursuant to section 17 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) since April 10, 2007. The report by the Managing Directors on relationships with affiliated companies (Dependent Company Report) specified in section 312 AktG was made available to the Administrative Board. The report has been reviewed by the auditors, who have issued the following audit opinion: clever little report 2011 P : 201 | C : 10 gri index FICIAL OF REP gri index ORT chapter: Global Reporting Initiative Index 202 clever little report 2011 10 P : 202 | C : 10 gri index Global Reporting Initiative Index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed detailed guidance materials on sustainability reporting which are widely recognized, for example, by the UN Global Compact. Since our first sustainability report Perspectives PUMA has drawn from the Guidelines of the GRI for producing our reports, achieving an “in accordance” status with the 2002 GRI guidelines of our sustainability report Momentum in 2005. In our PUMAVision Sustainability Report 2007/2008 and PUMA Annual Report 2010 we achieved the highest possible application level A+ . This report is our second attempt to combine our financial and sustainability report into one document. Despite the integrative approach, we still aim for a GRI A+ grade. The financial and also the non-financial information have been externally verified by our statutory auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). For the reporting boundaries in the sustainability section we have chosen the spheres where our influence is greatest. We report about our own operations and included data from subsidiaries and joint ventures. As previously, we set a high priority on social and environmental standards at our independent supplier factories, a topic frequently pointed out as important by many of our stakeholders. The sub-suppliers of those factories are included where feasible. This report covers the reporting period of 2011. For 2011, we have changed our B2B Transport CO2 Emissions methodology and hence decided to recalculate our 2010 figures to match the 2011 data. Furthermore, we have introduced a new data collection method for store level data on water, waste and paper. For further details, please refer to the relevant chapters of this report. Finally, we linked the results of our 2010 Environmental Profit and Loss Statement to this report, to cater for the vast interest this project has created among our stakeholders and the sustainability expert community. clever little report 2011 P : 203 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment 1. Strategy and Analysis 2. Organizational Profile 1,1 Statement from the most senior Fully CEO Statement 8/9 2,1 Name of the organization. Fully Notes to the consolidated 153 decision-maker of the organization. financial statements 1,2 Description of key impacts, risks, Fully Our Principles 10 2,2 Primary brands, products, and/or Fully Management Report 111 and opportunities. PUMAVision 15-19 services. Business Development / 112-114 Materiality Analysis 19 Sales Environmental Targets 39/40 Product Development and 127/128 2015 Design Management Report 108-111 Notes to the consolidated 154 Business Development 112-118 financial statements Risk Management 138-141 Group of consolidated 155-157 companies Outlook 143 Investments in associated 166 companies 2,3 Operational structure of the orgaFully Notes to the consolidated 153-155 nization, including main divisions, financial statements operating companies, subsidiaries, Group of consolidated 155-157 and joint ventures. companies Investments in associated 166 companies 2,4 Location of organization‘s headFully Notes to the consolidated 153 quarters financial statements 2,5 Number of countries where the Fully Management Report 108 organization operates, and names Sourcing 128/129 of countries with either major Notes to the consolidated 155-157 operations or that are specifically financial statements / relevant to the sustainability issues Group of consolidated covered in the report companies Distribution of factories 46 and audits by country 2,6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Notes to the consolidated 154 financial statements clever little report 2011 P : 204 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment 2,7 Markets served (including geograFully Brand 90-105 3. Report Parameters phic breakdown, sectors served, Management Report 111 3,1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calenFully GRI Index 203-220 and types of customers/beneficiBusiness Development 113 dar year) for information provided. Notes to the consolidated 153-157 aries). financial statements Regional Development 119/120 Notes to the consolidated 154/155 Calendar year financial statements 3,2 Date of most recent previous report Fully GRI Index 203 Group of consolidated 155-157 (if any). Notes to the consolidated 153/154 companies financial statements, Segment Reporting 181-183 April 2011 2,8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully People@PUMA 30-32 3,3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, Fully Annual Management Report 108 etc.) Business Development 112-114 3,4 Contact point for questions regardFully Imprint 224 Employees 130/131 ing the report or its contents. Notes to the consolidated 155-157 financial statements 3,5 Process for defining report content. Fully Stakeholder Engagement 17-19 Talks at Banz 19 2,9 Significant changes during the Fully CEO Statement 8/9 Materiality Analysis 19 reporting period regarding size, Notes to the consolidated 153-155 structure, or ownership. Environmental Targets 39/40 financial statements 2015 Group of consolidated 155-157 companies 3,6 Boundary of the report (e.g., counFully Distribution of factories 46 Business Combinations 162 tries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased and audits by country facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Explanation on data qual62 2,10 Awards received in the reporting Fully Awards 21 See GRI Boundary Protocol (https:// ity and comparability period. www.globalreporting.org/resourNotes to the consolidated 153/154 celibrary/GRI-Boundary-Protocol. financial statements pdf) for further guidance. Significant Consolidation 154-157 and Accounting and Valuation Principles GRI Index 203-220 3,7 State any specific limitations on Fully Areas of Failure 50 the scope or boundary of the report Environmental 62 (see completeness principle for Management / Explanaexplanation of scope). tion on data quality and comparability 2011 Target Assessment 72 GRI Index 203-220 clever little report 2011 P : 205 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment 3,8 Basis for reporting on joint Fully Factory Audits 44-46 3,12 Table identifying the location of the Fully GRI Index 204-220 ventures, subsidiaries, leased 2011 Target Assessment 72 Standard Disclosures in the report. facilities, outsourced operations, Notes to the consolidated 154-157 3,13 Policy and current practice with Fully Independent Assurance 86/87 and other entities that can financial statements regard to seeking external assurReport on corporate significantly affect comparability ance for the report. responsibility information from period to period and/or between organizations. Notes to the consolidated 187/188 financial statements / 3,9 Data measurement techniques and Fully Employee Opinion Survey 22 Independent Statutory the basis of calculations, includEnvironmental Manage62 Auditor’s Report ing assumptions and techniques ment / Explanation on GRI Index 203-220 underlying estimations applied to data quality and compathe compilation of the Indicators rability and other information in the report. 2011 Target Assessment 72 Explain any decisions not to apply, E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 or to substantially diverge from, the com/wp-content/themes/ GRI Indicator Protocols. aboutPUMA_theme/ financial-report/pdf/ EPL080212final.pdf) See explanations in specific sections of the report. 3,10 Explanation of the effect of any reFully No restatement of prior statements of information provided year financial information. in earlier reports, and the reasons Re-Statement of prior for such re-statement (e.g. year B2B CO2 Emissions mergers/acquisitions, change of in Environmental base years/periods, nature of Management Section business, measurement methods). See GRI Index for further 203 information. 3,11 Significant changes from previFully Employee Opinion Survey 22 ous reporting periods in the scope, Environmental Manage58/62 boundary, or measurement methment ods applied in the report. Notes to the consolidated 153/154 financial statements E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 com/wp-content/themes/ aboutPUMA_theme/ financial-report/pdf/ EPL080212final.pdf See explanations in specific sections of the report. clever little report 2011 P : 206 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4,8 Internally developed statements of Fully PUMAVision 15/16 4,1 Governance structure of the orFully Corporate Governance 132-135 mission or values, codes of conduct, Sustainable Supply Chain 43-57 ganization, including committees Report and principles relevant to Management under the highest governance body Report of the Administra169-199 economic, environmental, and Environmental Targets 39 responsible for specific tasks, such tive Board social performance and the status 2015 as setting strategy or organizational of their implementation Sustainability Scorecard 40 oversight. Code of Conduct (http:// 4,2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Fully Corporate Governance 132-135 safe.puma.com/us/en/ highest governance body is also an Report wp-content/uploads/CoC_ executive officer. 169-199 English_Finalx.pdf) Report of the Administrative Board Sustainability Scorecard Code of Ethics (http:// 4,3 For organizations that have a Fully Governance Bodies 28 about.puma.com/wpunitary board structure, state the Corporate Governance 132-135 content/themes/aboutnumber of members of the highReport PUMA_theme/media/pdf/ est governance body that are Compensation Report 136/137 CodeofEthics.pdf) independent and/or non-executive members. 4,9 Procedures of the highest Fully PUMAVision, 15 governance body for overseeing Talks at Banz 19 4,4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Fully Talks at Banz 19 the organization’s identification Board is regularly employees to provide recommenWhistleblower Policy 28 and management of economic, updated by PUMA.Safe dations or direction to the highest Corporate Governance environmental, and social perforGlobal Director. See governance body. Report 132-135 mance, including relevant risks www.safe.puma.com/us/ and opportunities, and adherence en/category/who-we-are 4,5 Linkage between compensation for Fully People@PUMA / Com25 or compliance with internationally members of the highest governance petency & Performance for further information agreed standards, codes of conduct, body, senior managers, and execuManagement and principles. tives (including departure arrangeCompensation Report 136/137 ments), and the organization’s 4,10 Processes for evaluating the highFully Compensation Report 136/137 performance (including social and est governance body’s own perforenvironmental performance). mance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and 4,6 Processes in place for the highest Fully Corporate Governance 132-135 social performance. governance body to ensure conflicts Report of interest are avoided. Report of the Administra169-199 4,11 Explanation of whether and how the Fully Environmental 58 tive Board precautionary approach or principle Management is addressed by the organization. Environmental Targets 39/40 4,7 Process for determining the Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15 2015 qualifications and expertise of the Board is regularly members of the highest governance updated by PUMA.Safe 4,12 Externally developed economic, Fully Standing Memberships 20 body for guiding the organization’s Global Director. See environmental, and social charters, Stakeholder Engagement 17 strategy on economic, environmenwww.safe.puma.com/us/ principles, or other initiatives to tal, and social topics en/category/who-we-are which the organization subscribes for further information. or endorses. clever little report 2011 P : 207 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment 4,13 Memberships in associations (such Partially Standing Memberships, 20 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have Fully Employee Opinion Survey 22 as industry associations) and/or naFair Labor Association 18 been raised through stakeholder Talks at Banz 19 tional/international advocacy orga(FLA) engagement, and how the orgaMateriality Analysis 19 nizations in which the organization: Partially reported as nization has responded to those »Has positions in governance there is not-known fundkey topics and concerns, including bodies; ing beyond membership through its reporting » Participates in projects or comdues. mittees; Economic » Provides substantive funding DMA EC Disclosure on Management Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 beyond routine membership dues; Approach Economic Management Report 108-111 or Business Development 112-124 » Views membership as strategic. Aspect Economic performance 4,14 List of stakeholder groups engaged Fully Stakeholder Engagement 17-20 Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 by the organization. Talks at Banz 19 Management Report 108-111 Materiality Analysis 19 Business Development 112-124 Employee Opinion Survey 22 Notes to the consolidated 153-155 Main Projects 2011 51-56 financial statements Main stakeholders consulted are employees, EC1 Direct economic value generated Fully Business Development 112-119 NGOs, shareholders (i.e. and distributed, including revenues, Consolidated financial 147/148 PPR), academia, customoperating costs, employee comstatements ers and suppliers. pensation, donations and other Consolidated financial community investments, retained statements (Consoli4,15 Basis for identification and Fully Materiality Analysis. 19 earnings, and payments to capital dated income statement, selection of stakeholders with As a part of the materiproviders and governments. Consolidated statement of whom to engage. ality analysis commissioned to the company financial positions) Stakeholder Reporting, EC2 Financial implications and other Fully Sustainable Products 41/42 the accurateness and risks and opportunities for the Environmental 58 completeness of PUMA’s organization’s activities due to Management stakeholders’ list was climate change. reviewed in 2011. The Risk Management 138-140 original list was based on Answers to the Carbon historical data (e.g. Talks Dislosure Project (https:// at Banz participants) and www.cdproject.net/ additional stakeholders en-US/Results/Pages/ were added following Company-Responses. the recommendations of aspx?company=15345) the materiality analysis E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 process. com/wp-content/themes/ 4,16 Approaches to stakeholder enFully Talks at Banz 19 aboutPUMA_theme/ gagement, including frequency of financial-report/pdf/ Employee Opinion Survey 22 engagement by type and by stakeEPL080212final.pdf) Materiality Analysis 19 holder group. clever little report 2011 P : 208 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment EC3 Coverage of the organization’s deFully Compensation and 27 Aspect Indirect economic impacts fined benefit plan obligations. Benefits, Fully PUMAVision 15-19 Compensation report, 136/137 Materiality Analysis 19 Notes to the consolidated 170-173 E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 financial statements / com/wp-content/themes/ Pension Provisions aboutPUMA_theme/ EC4 Significant financial assistance Fully No significant assistance financial-report/pdf/ received from government received during the EPL080212final.pdf) reporting period. EC8 Development and impact of Partially PUMAVision 15/16 Aspect Market presence infrastructure investments and Partially reported as services provided primarily for PUMA does not disclose Partially PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 public benefit through commercial, on the development Management Report 108-111 in-kind, or pro bono engagement. extent of investments on Business Development / 112-115 communities. Community Sales needs assessments have Notes to the consolidated 153-155 not been conducted. financial statements Investments in associated 166 EC9 Understanding and describing Fully Materiality Analysis 19 companies significant indirect economic Sustainable Supply Chain 43/44 Segment Reporting 180-182 impacts, including the extent of Management impacts. Environmental 58 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry Fully Wages in the Supply Chain 57 Management level wage compared to local PUMA is currently invesRisk Management 138-140 minimum wage at significant tigating further projects locations of operation. related to “Fair Wages” E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 and will report the progcom/wp-content/themes/ ress going forward. aboutPUMA_theme/ financial-report/pdf/ EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of Fully Distribution of Factories 49 EPL080212final.pdf) spending on locally-based suppliers and Audits by Country / at significant locations of operation. Top 10 production Environmental countries DMA EN Disclosure on Management Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 Areas of Failure 50 Approach Environmental Environmental 58 Main Projects 2011 51-56 Management Environmental Targets 39/40 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Partially People@PUMA 28 2015 proportion of senior management Total workforce by employ30-32 hired from the local community at E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 ment type and employsignificant locations of operation. com/wp-content/themes/ ment contract and region aboutPUMA_theme/ Diversity and Inclusion 27 financial-report/pdf/ Partially reported as EPL080212final.pdf) PUMA is a globally operating company with employees of diverse background. clever little report 2011 P : 209 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment Aspect Materials We plan to report on this indicator in more detail in Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 the upcoming years. Sustainable Products 41/42 Environmental 58 Aspect Energy Management Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 Joint Roadmap towards 71 Environmental 58 Zero Discharge of HazardManagement ous Chemicals Environmental Targets 39/40 Environmental Targets 39/40 2015 2015 E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 com/wp-content/themes/ com/wp-content/themes/ aboutPUMA_theme/ aboutPUMA_theme/ financial-report/pdf/ financial-report/pdf/ EPL080212final.pdf EPL080212final.pdf) EN3 Direct energy consumption by Partially Environmental 58 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not Environmental Manage68-71 primary energy source. Management ment Carbon Emissions 65-68 Environmental Targets 39/40 Energy Consumption 63 2015 Environmental Key 59-61 E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 Performance Indicators com/wp-content/themes/ E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 aboutPUMA_theme/ com/wp-content/themes/ financial-report/pdf/ aboutPUMA_theme/ EPL080212final.pdf) financial-report/pdf/ Production is outsourced EPL080212final.pdf) to independent suppliers. Reported as part of Total weight or volume Scope 1 CO2 emissions. of materials used is not disclosed. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Partially Environmental 58 primary source. Management EN2 Percentage of materials used that Partially Sustainable Products 41-42 are recycled input materials. Environmental Key 59-61 Cradle to Cradle Concept® 41 Performance Indicators Re-Suede Production Related 68-71 Environmental 42 Environmental Data Management 58 E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 Waste and Recycling 64/65 com/wp-content/themes/ Environmental Targets 39/40 aboutPUMA_theme/ 2015 financial-report/pdf/ E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 EPL080212final.pdf) com/wp-content/themes/ Indirect energy consumpaboutPUMA_theme/ tion for PUMA entities is financial-report/pdf/ reported. Production is EPL080212final.pdf) > > clever little report 2011 P : 210 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment outsourced to indepenEnergy Consumption 63 dent supplier factories. Target Assessment 2011 39/40 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation Partially Environmental 58 Partially reported as the and efficiency improvements. Management extent of indirect energy Carbon Emissions 65-68 reductions are not reported (not material). Energy Consumption 63 Environmental Targets 39/40 Aspect WATER 2015 Partially PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 Environmental 58 com/wp-content/themes/ Management aboutPUMA_theme/ Environmental Targets 39/40 financial-report/pdf/ 2015 EPL080212final.pdf) E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 Partially reported as com/wp-content/themes/ energy saved is listed aboutPUMA_theme/ as part of total energy financial-report/pdf/ figures. EPL080212final.pdf) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-effiPartially Sustainable Products 41/42 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Partially Environmental 58 cient or renewable energy based Clever Little Bag Management products and services, and reduc(http://about.puma.com/ Water Consumption 63/64 tions in energy requirements as a puma%E2%80%99s-newresult of these initiatives. Environmental Targets 39/40 packaging-and-distribu2015 tion-system-to-save-morethan-60-of-paper-andE P&L (http://about. 37/38 water-annually/?lang=en) puma.com/wp-content/ themes/aboutPUMA_theEnvironmental 58 me/financial-report/pdf/ Management EPL080212final.pdf) Carbon Emissions 65-68 Not reported by source as Energy Consumption 63 it is not considerable for Production Related 68-71 PUMA‘s own entities (all Environmental Data water taken from public Environmental Targets 39/40 supply). 2015 Re-Suede 42 Aspect Biodiversity Partially reported as part Partially Materiality Analysis 19 of the product E-KPIs. PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 Environmental 58 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect enPartially Environmental 58 Management ergy consumption and reductions Management achieved. E P&L (http://about. 37/38 Explanation on data 62 puma.com/wp-content/ quality and comparability themes/aboutPUMA_theCarbon Emissions > 65-68 me/financial-report/pdf/ EPL080212final.pdf) > clever little report 2011 P : 211 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment Due to the low level of Carbon Emissions 65-68 materiality as indicated in Wildlife Works 66 our Materiality Analysis, E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 we are mainly reporting com/wp-content/themes/ on biodiversity as part of aboutPUMA_theme/ our efforts in the Environfinancial-report/pdf/ mental Profit and Loss EPL080212final.pdf) Account. Partially reported beEN11 Location and size of land owned, Partially Materiality Analysis 19 cause no relevant direct leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Environmental 68-71 impact from PUMA owned protected areas and areas of high Management entities is identified. biodiversity value outside protected E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 areas. Aspect Emissions, effluents and waste com/wp-content/themes/ aboutPUMA_theme/ Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 financial-report/pdf/ Environmental 58 EPL080212final.pdf) Management Partially reported by Environmental Targets 39/40 source as biodiversity 2015 is not identified as a E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 material topic for PUMA’s com/wp-content/themes/ operations. aboutPUMA_theme/ financial-report/pdf/ EN12 Description of significant impacts Fully Environmental 58 EPL080212final.pdf) of activities, products, and services Management on biodiversity in protected areas Carbon Emissions 65-68 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Fully Carbon Emissions 65-68 and areas of high biodiversity value Wildlife Works 66 gas emissions by weight. Environmental Targets 39/40 outside protected areas. E P&L (http://about.puma. 2015 37/38 com/wp-content/themes/ E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 aboutPUMA_theme/ com/wp-content/themes/ financial-report/pdf/ aboutPUMA_theme/ EPL080212final.pdf) financial-report/pdf/ EPL080212final.pdf), EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Partially Environmental 58 Greenhouse Gas ProtoManagement col Corporate Standard Carbon Emissions 65-68 (http://www.ghgprotocol. Wildlife Works 66 org/files/ghgp/public/ghgPartially reported beprotocol-revised.pdf) cause no relevant direct Own standard used in impact from PUMA owned consideration of the entities is identified. Greenhouse Gas Protocol. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Partially Environmental Targets 39/40 future plans for managing impacts 2015 on biodiversity Environmental 58 Management > clever little report 2011 P : 212 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment EN17 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Fully Environmental 58 water discharges are gas emissions by weight. Management not fully reported as Carbon Emissions 65-68 PUMA’s own entities use Environmental 39/40 water only for domestic Targets 2015 purposes and discharge into public waste water E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 collection systems. com/wp-content/themes/ aboutPUMA_theme/ EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Partially Environmental 58 financial-report/pdf/ disposal method. Management EPL080212final.pdf) Waste and Recycling 64/65 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Fully Environmental 58 E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 emissions and reductions achieved. Management com/wp-content/themes/ Carbon Emissions 65-68 aboutPUMA_theme/ financial-report/pdf/ Energy Consumption 63 EPL080212final.pdf) Environmental 39/40 Partially reported as Targets 2015 detailed information is EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting subFully No significant emissions not material since PUMA stances by weight. of ozone-depleting subhas outsourced producstances were identified. tion to independent supplier factories. Selected EN20 NOX, SOX, and other significant air Partially Environmental 58 suppliers report in more emissions by type and weight. Management detail within their own E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 sustainability reports. com/wp-content/themes/ aboutPUMA_theme/ EN23 Total number and volume of signifiFully No significant spills were financial-report/pdf/ cant spills. identified during the EPL080212final.pdf) report period. Partially reported beAspect Products and services cause air emissions are Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 not considered significant Sustainable Products 41/42 for PUMA’s own operations. Cradle to Cradle 41 Concept® EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Partially Environmental 58 Environmental 39/40 destination. Management Targets 2015 Water Consumption 63/64 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Fully Sustainable Products 41/42 E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 and services, and extent of impact Cotton made in Africa 41 com/wp-content/themes/ mitigation. Re-Suede 42 aboutPUMA_theme/ financial-report/pdf/ Environmental 39/40 EPL080212final.pdf) Targets 2015 Destination, treatment Sustainability Scorecard 40 method and reuse of > PUMA S-Index > 39 clever little report 2011 P : 213 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment Clever Little Bag E P&L (http://about.puma. 37/38 (http://about.puma.com/ com/wp-content/themes/ puma%E2%80%99saboutPUMA_theme/ new-packaging-andfinancial-report/pdf/ distribution-systemEPL080212final.pdf) to-save-more-thanEN29 Significant environmental impacts Fully Sustainable Products 41/42 60-of-paper-and-waterof transporting products and Clever Little Bag (http:// annually/?lang=en) other goods and materials used about.puma.com/ No noise-related impacts for the organization’s operations, puma%E2%80%99s-newwere identified. and transporting members of the packaging-and-distribuEN27 Percentage of products sold and Partially Sustainable Products 41/42 workforce. tion-system-to-save-mortheir packaging materials that are Cradle to Cradle 41 ethan-60-of-paper-andreclaimed by category. Concept® water-annually/?lang=en) Environmental 58 Environmental 58 Management Management Waste and Recycling 64/65 Carbon Emissions 65-68 Environmental 39/40 SOCIAL: Labor Practices and Decent Work Targets 2015 DMA LA Disclosure on Management ApFully People@PUMA 22-29 Partially reported. A proach Labor Practices product recolletion system is currently in Aspect Employment development. Fully People@PUMA 22-29 Aspect Compliance Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 LA1 Total workforce by employment Fully Total workforce by 30-32 Code of Ethics (http:// type, employment contract, and employment type and about.puma.com/wpregion. employment contract content/themes/aboutand region PUMA_theme/media/pdf/ LA2 Total number and rate of employee Partially Turnover by region 33 CodeofEthics.pdf turnover by age group, gender, and Reported is only the EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Fully Sustainable Supply Chain 43 region. employee turnover by and total number of non-monetary Management region. sanctions for non-compliance with Social Compliance Moni44 Aspect Labor / management relations environmental laws and regulatoring tions. Fully People@PUMA 22-29 No (non-) monetary fines and sanctions known. LA4 Percentage of employees covered Fully People@PUMA 22-29 Aspect TRANSPORT by collective bargaining agreeCollective Bargaining 33 Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 ments. Agreements Environmental 58 Management > clever little report 2011 P : 214 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment Aspect Occupational health and safety Total workforce repre33 Fully People@PUMA / Occupa28 sented in formal joint tional Health and Safety management-worker health and safety commitLA7 Rates of injury, occupational disPartially Rate of injuries, accidents, 34 tees that help monitor and eases, lost days, and absenteeism, etc. advice on occupational and number of work-related fataliPartially reported as health and safety proties by region. occupational disease rate grams and minor injuries are Fully reported are considered not significant total training hours and (not material). amount of trained employees. LA8 Education, training, counseling, Partially People@PUMA / Occupa28 prevention, and risk-control protional Health and Safety LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Fully People@PUMA / Com25 grams in place to assist workforce Education training and 34 regular performance and career petency & Performance members, their families, or comCounseling prevention development reviews. Management munity members regarding serious Total workforce repre33 diseases. Aspect Diversity and equal opportunity sented in formal joint management-worker Fully People@PUMA / Diversity 27 health and safety commit& Inclusion tees that help monitor and LA13 Composition of governance bodies Partially People@PUMA / Diversity 27 advice on occupational and breakdown of employees per & Inclusion health and safety procategory according to gender, age Total workforce by 30-32 grams group, minority group membership, employment type and Partially reported as and other indicators of diversity. employment contract and counseling, prevenregion tion and risk-control Partially reported as programs on serious PUMA was not able to diseases are considered collect detailed data on not significant to PUMA’s the total percentage of own operations. employees of minorAspect Training and education ity groups and minority groups on governance Fully People@PUMA / Global 25 bodies. The age of the Learning and Developgovernance bodies’ ment members is not disLA10 Average hours of training per year Fully People@PUMA / Gloabl 25 closed. per employee by employee category. Learning and Development Education training and 34 Counseling prevention > clever little report 2011 P : 215 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment Social: Human Rights Code of Conduct (http:// DMA HR Disclosure on Management Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 safe.puma.com/us/en/ Approach Human Resources wp-content/uploads/CoC_ Sustainable Supply Chain 43/44 English_Finalx.pdf) Management Code of Conduct (http:// HR4 Total number of incidents of Fully Diversity & Inclusion 27 safe.puma.com/us/en/ discrimination and actions taken. Corporate Governance / 28 wp-content/uploads/CoC_ Whistleblower Policy English_Finalx.pdf) Education training and 34 Counseling prevention Aspect Investment and procurement practices Total workforce repre33 Fully PUMA.Safe 15/16 sented in formal joint Sustainable Supply Chain 43/44 management workers Management health and safety commitCode of Conduct (http:// tees that help monitor and safe.puma.com/us/en/ advise on occupational wp-content/uploads/CoC_ health and safety English_Finalx.pdf) programs HR1 Percentage and total number of Fully Factory Audits / Audit 44/45 PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 significant investment agreements Performance 2011 Sustainable Supply Chain 43-57 that include human rights clauses Main Projects 2011 51-56 Management or that have undergone human Code of Conduct (http:// Areas of Failure 50 rights screening. safe.puma.com/us/en/ No incident of discriminawp-content/uploads/CoC_ tion was identified. English_Finalx.pdf) Aspect Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers Fully Factory Audits / Audit 44/45 Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 and contractors that have underPerformance 2011 Sustainable Supply Chain 43-57 gone screening on human rights Main Projects 2011 51-56 Management and actions taken. Code of Conduct (http:// Code of Conduct (http:// safe.puma.com/us/en/ safe.puma.com/us/en/ wp-content/uploads/CoC_ wp-content/uploads/CoC_ English_Finalx.pdf) English_Finalx.pdf) Supplier Sustainability Reporting(http:// HR5 Operations identified in which the Fully Sustainable Supply Chain 43/44 safe.puma.com/us/ right to exercise freedom of associManagement en/2011/11/2010-suppliation and collective bargaining may Factory Audits 44/45 er-sustainability-reports/) be at significant risk, and actions Areas of Failure 50 taken to support these rights. Aspect Non-discrimination Aspect Child labor Fully People@PUMA / Diversity 27 & Inclusion Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 Sustainable Supply Chain 43-57 > Management > clever little report 2011 P : 216 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment Code of Conduct (http:// Social: Society safe.puma.com/us/en/ DMA SO Disclosure on Management Fully PUMAVision 15/16 wp-content/uploads/CoC_ Approach Society 17-20 Stakeholder Engagement English_Finalx.pdf) People@PUMA 22-29 HR6 Operations identified as having sigFully Sustainable Supply Chain 43/44 nificant risk for incidents of child Management Aspect Community labor, and measures taken to contriFactory Audits 44/45 Fully PUMAVision 15/16 bute to the elimination of child labor. Areas of Failure 50 Stakeholder Engagement 17-20 Talks at Banz 19 Aspect Forced and compulsory labor 19 Materiality Analysis Fully PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 People@PUMA 22-29 Sustainable Supply Chain 43-57 43-45 Sustainable Supply Chain Management Management HR7 Operations identified as having sigFully Sustainable Supply Chain 43-57 PUMA.Peace 75/76 nificant risk for incidents of forced Management PUMA.Creative 79-85 or compulsory labor, and measures Factory Audits 44/45 to contribute to the elimination of SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness Fully Stakeholder Engagement 17-20 Areas of Failure 50 forced or compulsory labor. of any programs and practices that Talks at Banz 19 assess and manage the impacts of Materiality Analysis 19 Aspect Security practices operations on communities, includPeople@PUMA Partially PUMAVision / PUMA.Safe 15/16 ing entering, operating, and exiting. PUMA.Safe Sustainable Supply Chain 43-57 Sustainable Supply Chain 43/44 Management Management Code of Conduct (http:// PUMA.Peace 75/76 safe.puma.com/us/en/ wp-content/uploads/CoC_ PUMA.Creative 79-85 English_Finalx.pdf) Aspect CORRUPTION Partially reported as Partially People@PUMA, 28 security practices are not considered highly Code of Ethics (http:// significant to PUMA’s about.puma.com/wpoperations. content/themes/aboutPUMA_theme/media/pdf/ HR8 Percentage of security personnel Partially Sustainable Supply Chain 43/44 CodeofEthics.pdf) trained in the organization’s policies Management No incident of corruption or procedures concerning aspects Factory Audits 44/45 was identified during the of human rights that are relevant to Main Projects 2011 51-56 reporting period. operations. Supplier Roundtables 56/57 Partially reported as only the main projects and trainings on policies concerning human rights are considered significant to PUMA’s own operations. clever little report 2011 P : 217 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment SO2 Percentage and total number of Fully People@Puma 28 Aspect Public policy business units analyzed for risks Corporate Governance/ Fully Stakeholder Engagement 17-20 related to corruption. Whistleblower Policy German Council for Sus19 No incident of corruption tainable Development and was identified for the Two Degrees Initiative reporting period. People@Puma 27/28 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Fully People@Puma 26-28 Code of Ethics (http:// organization's anti-corruption International Leadership 26 about.puma.com/wppolicies and procedures. Program content/themes/aboutCorporate Governance/ 28 PUMA_theme/media/pdf/ Whistleblower Policy CodeofEthics.pdf Code of Ethics (http:// SO5 Public policy positions and particiFully Stakeholder Engagement 17-20 about.puma.com/wppation in public policy development German Council for Sus19 content/themes/aboutand lobbying. tainable Development and PUMA_theme/media/pdf/ Two Degrees Initiative CodeofEthics.pdf) People@Puma 27/28 No incident of corruption was identified for the Code of Ethics (http:// reporting period. about.puma.com/wpcontent/themes/aboutSO4 Actions taken in response to Fully People@Puma / Corporate 28 PUMA_theme/media/pdf/ incidents of corruption. Governance / WhistleCodeofEthics.pdf) blower Policy No differences between Code of Ethics (http:// positions and PUMA’s about.puma.com/wppolicies known of. PUMA content/themes/aboutis committed to enPUMA_theme/media/pdf/ couraging sustainable CodeofEthics.pdf) development. See GerNo incident of corruption man Council for Sustainwas identified during the able Development and reporting period. Two Degree Initiative for further information on our engagement. Aspect Compliance Fully No fines and sanctions identified during the reporting period. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Fully No fines and sanctions and total number of non-monetary were identified during the sanctions for non-compliance with reporting period. laws and regulations. clever little report 2011 P : 218 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment Social: Product Responsibility No incidents of customer DMA PR Disclosure on Management Fully Sustainable Products 41/42 health and safety nonApproach Product Responsibility compliance were identiEnvironmental 68-71 fied. PUMA products are Management PVC free and comply with Production Related a Restricted Substances Environmental Data List standard. Environmental 39/40 Targets 2015 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Partially Sustainable Products 41/42 Standing Memberships 20 and safety impacts of products and Cradle to Cradle 41 (RSL Management) services are assessed for improveConcept® ment, and percentage of significant S-Index 39 Restricted Substances products and services categories List (http://about.puma. Production Related Envi68-71 subject to such procedures. com/wp-content/themes/ ronmental Data aboutPUMA_theme/meJoint Roadmap towards 71 dia/pdf/2011/PUMA_RSL_ Zero Discharge of HazardMRSL_V_12_11.pdf) ous Chemicals No incidents of product Environmental Targets 39/40 responsibility non-com2015 pliance were identified. Standing Memberships 20 PUMA products are PVC (RSL Management) free and comply with a Restricted Substances Restricted Substances List (http://about.puma. List standard. com/wp-content/themes/ Aspect Customer health and safety aboutPUMA_theme/media/pdf/2011/PUMA_RSL_ Fully Sustainable Products 41/42 MRSL_V_12_11.pdf) Cradle to Cradle 41 Partially reported as the Concept® percentage of significant Environmental Manage71 product or service life ment / Joint Roadmap cycles covered and astowards Zero Discharge of sessed is not collected. Hazardous Chemicals PUMA products are PVC Environmental 39/40 free and comply with a Targets 2015 Restricted Substances Standing Memberships 20 List standard. (RSL Management) Restricted Substances Aspect Product and service labeling List (http://about.puma. Partially Sustainable Products 41/42 com/wp-content/themes/ Environmental Manage58 aboutPUMA_theme/mement dia/pdf/2011/PUMA_RSL_ Joint Roadmap towards 71 MRSL_V_12_11.pdf) > Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals > clever little report 2011 P : 219 | C : 10 gri index Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page Indicator Description Reporting Cross-reference and Page (Core/Add) Comment (Core/Add) Comment Environmental Targets 39/40 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, Partially People@PUMA 28 2015 (39/40) standards, and voluntary codes reCode of Ethics (http:// Restricted Substances lated to marketing communications, about.puma.com/wpList (http://about.puma. including advertising, promotion, content/themes/aboutcom/wp-content/themes/ and sponsorship. PUMA_theme/media/pdf/ aboutPUMA_theme/meCodeofEthics.pdf) dia/pdf/2011/PUMA_RSL_ Partially reported as no MRSL_V_12_11.pdf) incident of non-compliPartially reported as it is ance related to marketconsidered not material. ing communications was No complaints were reidentified (not material). ceived during the reporting period. No incident of Aspect Compliance labeling non-compliance PR9 Fully No incident of nonwas identified (not matecompliance was identirial), PUMA’s products fied during the reporting are not subject to parperiod. ticular product information regulations. PR8 Monetary value of significant fines Fully No fines for non-complifor non-compliance with laws ance were identified durPR3 Type of product and service inforFully PUMA’s products are and regulations concerning the ing the reporting period. mation required by procedures, and covered by normal provision and use of products and percentage of significant products product information services. and services subject to such inforrequirements and are mation requirements. not subject to any specific product information regulations. Aspect Marketing communications Partially People@PUMA 28 Code of Ethics (http:// about.puma.com/wpcontent/themes/aboutPUMA_theme/media/pdf/ CodeofEthics.pdf) No incident of non-compliance related to marketing communications was identified (not material). Partially reported as no complaints were identified in the reporting period and as this topic also is not flagged as material in our Materiality Analysis. clever little report 2011 FICIAL OF further information REP ORT chapter: PUMA Year-on-Year Comparison 221 PUMA Group Development 222 11 P : 221 | C : 11 PUMA Year-on-Year Comparison T.1 2011 € million 2010 € million Deviation 2011 2010 € million Deviation € million Sales Cashflow and investments Brand sales 3,172.5 2,862.1 10.8% Gross cashflow 381.5 358.4 6.5% Consolidated sales 3,009.0 2,706.4 11.2% Free cashflow (before acquisition) 61.0 125.5 -51.4% Investments (before acquisition) 71.1 55.2 28.9% Result of operations Acquisition investment 44.2 108.4 -59.2% Gross profit 1,493.4 1,344.8 11.0% EBIT 1) 333.2 337.8 -1.4% Value management EBT 320.4 301.5 6.3% Cashflow Return on Investment (CFROI) 14.6% 15.6% -1.0%pt Net earnings 230.1 202.2 13.8% Absolute value contribution 166.8 156.7 6.5% Profitability Employees Gross profit margin 49.6% 49.7% -0.1%pt Employees on yearly average 10,043 9.313 7.8% EBT margin 10.6% 11.1% -0.5%pt Sales per employee (T€) 299.6 290.6 3.1% Net margin 7.6% 7.5% 0.1%pt Return on capital employed (ROCE) 29.3% 31.7% -2.4%pt PUMA share Return on equity (ROE) 14.3% 14.6% -0.2%pt Share price (in €) 225.00 248.00 -9.3% Average outstanding shares (in million) 14,981 15.031 -0.3% Balance sheet information Number of shares outstanding (in million) 14,935 14.981 -0.3% Shareholders' equity 1,605.2 1,386.4 15.8% Earnings per share (in €) 15.36 13.45 14.2% Equity ratio 62.2% 58.6% 3.6%pt Market capitalization 3.360 3.715 -9.6% Working capital 534.0 404.5 32.0% Average trading volume (amount/day) 44,504 32,045 38.9% in % of Consolidated sales 17.7% 14.9% 2.8%pt 1) EBIT before special items clever little report 2011 P : 222 | C : 11 PUMA Group Development (page 1) T.2 2011 2010 2009* 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million Sales Brand sales 3,172.5 2,862.1 2,607.6 2,767.9 2,738.8 2,755.1 2,387.0 2,016.6 1,691.5 1,380.0 1,011.7 Change in % 10.8% 9.8% -5.8% 1.1% -0.6% 15.4% 18.4% 19.2% 22.6% 36.4% 41.5% Consolidated sales 3,009.0 2,706.4 2,447.3 2,524.2 2,373.5 2,369.2 1,777.5 1,530.3 1,274.0 909.8 598.1 Change in % 11.2% 10.6% -3.0% 6.3% 0.2% 33.3% 16.2% 20.1% 40.0% 52.1% 60.5% Footwear 1,539.5 1,424.8 1,321.7 1,434.3 1,387.9 1,420.0 1,175.0 1,011.4 859.3 613.0 384.1 Apparel 1,035.6 941.3 846.2 899.3 827.3 795.4 473.9 416.0 337.0 238.5 169.5 Accessories 433.9 340.3 279.4 190.6 158.3 153.8 128.6 102.9 77.7 58.3 44.5 Result of operations Gross profit 1,493.4 1,344.8 1,243.1 1,306.6 1,241.7 1,199.3 929.8 794.0 620.0 396.9 250.6 Gross profit margin 49.6% 49.7% 50.8% 51.8% 52.3% 50.6% 52.3% 51.9% 48.7% 43.6% 41.9% Royalty and commission income 17.6 19.1 20.6 25.7 35.6 37.0 55.7 43.7 40.3 44.9 37.2 EBIT1) 333.2 337.8 299.7 350.4 372.0 368.0 397.7 359.0 263.2 125.0 59.0 EBIT margin 11.1% 12.5% 12.2% 13.9% 15.7% 15.5% 22.4% 23.5% 20.7% 13.7% 9.9% EBT 320.4 301.5 138.4 326.4 382.6 374.0 404.1 364.7 264.1 124.4 57.4 EBT margin 10.6% 11.1% 5.7% 12.9% 16.1% 15.8% 22.7% 23.8% 20.7% 13.7% 9.6% Net earnings 230.1 202.2 79.6 232.8 269.0 263.2 285.8 258.7 179.3 84.9 39.7 Net margin 7.6% 7.5% 3.3% 9.2% 11.3% 11.1% 16.1% 16.9% 14.1% 9.3% 6.6% Expenses Marketing/retail 550.7 501.3 501.2 528.6 448.3 439.5 285.3 223.5 169.7 125.1 86.9 Product development/design 77.0 63.6 58.1 55.1 58.1 57.3 42.5 37.2 30.3 24.2 19.9 Personnel 393.8 354.1 320.2 306.4 278.0 265.7 199.4 163.4 126.6 103.0 81.1 1) EBIT before special items * adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8, see chapter 3 in the notes > to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 clever little report 2011 P : 223 | C : 11 PUMA Group Development (page 2) T.3 2011 € million 2010 € million 2009* € million 2008 € million 2007 € million 2006 € million 2005 € million 2004 € million 2003 € million 2002 € million 2001 € million Balance sheet Total assets 2,581.8 2,366.6 1,925.0 1,898.7 1,863.0 1,714.8 1,321.0 942.3 700.1 525.8 395.4 Shareholders' equity 1,605.2 1,386.4 1,133.3 1,177.2 1,154.8 1,049.0 875.4 550.2 383.0 252.2 176.7 Equity ratio 62.2% 58.6% 58.9% 62.0% 62.0% 61.2% 66.3% 58.4% 54.7% 48.0% 44.7% Working capital 534.0 404.5 323.2 436.4 406.5 401.6 255.7 148.4 155.7 114.0 110.3 thereof: inventories 536.8 439.7 344.4 430.8 373.6 364.0 238.3 201.1 196.2 167.9 144.5 Cashflow Free cashflow 16.8 17.1 167.3 85.8 208.8 10.4 134.4 256.6 107.4 100.1 3.0 Net cash position 413.1 436.8 437.3 325.3 461.2 393.6 430.4 356.4 173.8 94.3 -7.8 Investment (incl. Acquisitions) 115.3 163.6 136.3 144.1 112.9 153.9 79.8 43.1 57.3 22.5 24.8 Profitability Return on equity (ROE) 14.3% 14.6% 7.0% 19.8% 23.3% 25.1% 32.6% 47.0% 46.8% 33.7% 22.5% Return on capital employed (ROCE) 29.3% 31.7% 20.3% 41.0% 54.8% 58.0% 96.7% 156.5% 120.7% 81.1% 32.8% Cashflow return on investment (CFROI) 14.6% 15.6% 14.9% 21.7% 22.4% 24.0% 32.0% 42.1% 43.5% 32.2% 20.3% Additional information Number of employees (year-end) 10,836 9,697 9,646 10,069 9,204 7,742 5,092 3,910 3,189 2,387 2,012 Number of employees (annual average) 10,043 9,313 9,747 9,503 8,338 6,831 4,425 3,475 2,826 2,192 1,717 PUMA share Share price (in €) 225.00 248.00 231.84 140.30 273.00 295.67 246.50 202.30 140.00 65.03 34.05 Earnings per share (in €) 15.36 13.45 5.28 15.15 16.80 16.39 17.79 16.14 11.26 5.44 2.58 Average outstanding shares (in million) 14.981 15.031 15.082 15.360 16.018 16.054 16.066 16.025 15.932 15.611 15.392 Number of shares outstanding (in million) 14.935 14.981 15.082 15.082 15.903 16.114 15.974 16.062 16.059 15.846 15.429 Market capitalization 3.360 3.715 3.497 2.116 4.342 4.764 3.938 3.249 2.248 1.030 525 1) EBIT before special items * adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8, see chapter 3 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 clever little report 2011
