GROWING RESPONSIBLY 2010&2011 Table of Contents About this Report 02 Message from Group Chief Executive Officer 04 About Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E 06 Managing our Corporate Responsibility 08 Business Ethics 12 Our Customers 18 Our Network 24 Our Employees 28 Our Environmental Responsibility 34 Social Investment 38 GRI table 44 About this Report Scope and Structure The content of this report covers Orascom Telecom Holding Headquarters in Egypt and its GSM companies operating in countries: Algeria, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Canada, Zimbabwe, Central African Republic, and Burundi. The data also cover the This is our third sustainability report, for the financial years 2010 and 2011 ended December 2011. Reporting on our social and holding’s management contract in Lebanon for which Orascom Telecom is responsible of managing the day-to-day operation environmental performance has become an integral part of our regular corporate disclosure and reporting practice; our main goal is of mobile operator Alfa. to provide our stakeholders with an objective view of the group’s position and performance on sustainability issues. Orascom Telecom 2010/2011 sustainability report is written primarily for socially responsible investors, international organizations, customers, nonOur 2010/2011 sustainability report is based on the core indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Guidelines. The governmental organizations and others with particular interest to learn about our approach to sustainability issues. This report Global Reporting Initiative is an independent and multi-stakeholder network that publishes guidelines related to sustainability supplements Orascom Telecom annual financial report which is available online at www.otelecom.com and it is a ready reference to reporting. The performance indictors published in this report show the extent to which we meet the reporting requirements Orascom Telecom Holding’s relevant policies, practices and programs as well as to additional related information. of the GRI level B application in accordance with GRI G3 guidelines. The indicators also cross-reference the contents of the report with elements of G3. This report serves as Orascom Telecom Holding’s communication on progress in the scope of ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ While we have attempted to avoid excessively repeating information provided in the first two reports, some facts about Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Orascom Telecom Holding’s profile and organization are presented again so that this report present a clear comprehensive 1.1 Level C plus: Level B image of our operations and management structure. External assurance was not exercised for Orascom Telecom sustainability 2.1 2.10 1.2 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 report, but it is planned for later reports. OUTPUT G3 Profile 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Disclosures Orascom Telecom Holding sustainability report is an invitation to all our stakeholders to engage in an open and critical dialogue Standard Disclosures with us. We encourage your feedback to help us make subsequent reports even better. Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not Requird Management Approach Management Approach Please e-mail your comments to csr@otelecom.com Disclosures for each Indicator Disclosures for each Indicator Category Category G3 Management OUTPUT Approach Previous Sustainability Reports Disclosures Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 and 10 Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, at least Sector Supplement* Indicator G3 Performance including at least one from one from each of Economic, with due regard to the OUTPUT Indicators & each of: Economic, Social and Environmental, Human rights, Materiality Principle by either: Sector Supplement Environmental. Labor, Society, Product a) reporting on the Indicator or Performance Indicators Reponsibility b) explaining the reascn for its omission *Sector supplement in final version 02 03 “Our services provide significant opportunities in improving the standard of living particulaly in emerging markets.” Message from Group Chief Executive Officer Welcome to the third annual sustainability report of Orascom Kisan service is bringing substantial know-how to farmers in Pakistan and the babsha jigyasha 7677 is empowering small and Telecom Holding. This report is the most recent in a series medium enterprises by providing solutions to their queries regarding access to finance and business development processes. that communicates our commitment to corporate social The role of telecommunications and internet access during natural crises was highlighted during the devastating floods that hit responsibility, including environmental responsibility, Pakistan in 2010 and 2011. Immediately, we stepped forward to launch an international advertising campaign calling for SMS business ethics, consumer issues, employee development, donations across our operating companies in Egypt, Greece, Canada, and Italy in partnership with the World Food Program, the and social investment. Orascom Telecom Holding’s parent Red Cross and the United Nations Children’s Fund. In addition, Orascom Telecom launched “Shelter from the Flood”, a fundraising company, Wind Telecom, announced in April 2011 that they project targeting the US market, initiated by Orascom Telecom and Obopay, the mobile money solutions pioneer, to establish a have completed the merger with VimpelCom Ltd., Russia’s text-to-donate post-disaster rebuilding effort to provide continuing funds to Pakistan with the objective of rebuilding both the thirdlargest wireless carrier by subscribers, to create the infrastructure and the lives of those affected by the disaster of the flood. world’s sixth-largest telecommunications company based on subscriber. While in 2010, we had started to develop a group In 2010 and 2011 Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E and its local operating companies achieved a number of awards. Orascom sustainability strategy for Orascom Telecom, this project Telecom was ranked third on the EGX ESG index for 2010. The assessment was based on our environmental, social and corporate needed to be placed on hold until the completion of the governance activities disclosed through our annual sustainability report. In 2011, banglalink received the World Communication merger. My colleagues and I believe that being proactive on Award for the banglalink krishi bazaar service. corporate social responsibility issues is critical to the longOrascom Telecom is proud to be a pioneer in the industry’s efforts to improve responsible business practices in emerging markets. term success of our company, and we remain sure that by We continue to support the United Nations Global Compact and its principles on human rights, labor rights, the environment combining the efforts of our two global organizations we will and anti-corruption. We participate in the national quarterly roundtable discussions and our annual sustainability report meets be able to expand our corporate responsibility program. the criteria of the UN global compact communication on progress requirements. Over the past two years, we have made progress on our I invite you to read the full report and send any comments or suggestions to csr@otelecom.com sustainability priorities by improving the energy efficiency of our network and increasing our paper-less billing methods Thank you for your ongoing support and confidence. across our operating companies. We have also completed our environmental management 14001 and occupational health and safety 18001 systems for OTH headquarters in Cairo. Ahmed Abou Doma Our services provide significant opportunities in improving the Group Chief Executive Officer standard of living particularly in emerging markets. Mobilink’s 05 About Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E Orascom Telecom is a leading international telecommunications company operating GSM networks in high growth markets in the Middle East, Africa and Asia, having a total population under license of approximately 408 million with an average mobile telephony penetration of approximately 48% as of September 30th, 2011. Orascom Telecom operates GSM networks in Algeria (“OTA”), Pakistan (“Mobilink”) and Bangladesh (“banglalink”) and has an indirect equity shareholding in Globalive Wireless Canada (“Wind Mobile”). In addition it has an indirect equity ownership in PAKISTAN Telecel Zimbabwe (Zimbabwe) and through its subsidiary Telecel Globe, OTH also operates in Burundi and the Central African Republic. Orascom Telecom reached over 78 million subscribers as CANADA EGYPT of December 30th, 2011. Orascom Telecom is traded on the Egyptian Exchange under the symbol (ORTE.CA, ORAT EY), and on the London Stock Exchange its GDSs are traded under the symbol (ORTEq.L, OTLD LI). Total base station sites: 25666 ALGERIA BANGLADESH 2G base station sites: 24550 BURUNDI 3G base station sites: 1291 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Co-located (2G and 3G) base station sites: 214 Total voice usage in 2011: 194011463251 Total SMS messages handled in 2011: 68708971575 Stores owned: 214 ZIMBABWE Stores franchised: 744 Total Mobile Internet users: 4612521 Total fixed broadband customers: 42452 06 07 Managing our Corporate Social Responsibility Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E’s approach to corporate social responsibility is based on decentralization and the consequential delegation of a number of tasks. Decentralization has been a key element of our corporate culture and is also the basis of our success in implementing group recommended social, governance and environmental initiatives that are tailored to meet local market needs. While our approach towards corporate social responsibility issues is decentralized, all projects and initiatives must be of a thematic relevance to our telecommunications business and / or local community needs approved by the group CSR function. Where and how we get involved is up to our local CSR practioners because they know best what is valuable to their stakeholders. On the technology side, operating companies are responsible for delivering results against their energy efficiency commitments that are developed in partnership with the group energy efficiency reduction targets. Our corporate responsibility management structure reflects the personal commitment of Orascom Telecom Holding top management. At the executive level, the Chief Executive Officer is involved and supports all CSR activities at the group and local operating companies’ level. The group CSR function monitors regularly all activities at initiation, implementation and reporting stages. At the operations level, core projects are managed by a project team drawn from different departments. In our last sustainability report, we reported on our materiality issues identification process that started in 2009 as the initial step towards developing a group corporate social responsibility strategy; however, due to the merger of Wind Telecom and Vimpelcom, this project was put on hold. As a result of the merger, Orascom Telecom will be part of a group that manages other 7 telecom operators in different countries which will impact the materiality issues assessment results. Aligning Orascom Telecom and Vimpelcom’s corporate responsibility strategies and general themes will be a challenging exercise introducing new drivers and new targets for CSR. Group Description Channels of Engagement Investors & Banks; private equity firms; Analyst days; meeting Industry Analysts investors; conferences; roadshows subsidiary days; investor presentations quarterly earning releases; press releases and press-ads; one on one meetings; conference calls; emails; AGMs and EGMs. Government & includes OTH subsidiaries engagement with: All mobile cellular operators Regulators MoIT; regulatory authorities; workshops; GSMA conferences; competition authorities; regulatory authority letters; spectrum allocation authorities; regulatory letters; national board of revenue; board of investment authorities; NonOrascom telecom works with a number of Feedback on the 2009 sustainability report; governmental NGOs and foundations through its social Partnership in development initiatives Organizations investment program across its operating worldwide companies and local corporate foundations’. Meetings and participation in different Examples include SIFE Egypt, the Association conferences for the Protection of the Environment, Industry Engagement with industry players is usually Meetings; conference calls; conferences, through initiatives such the GSMA’s Green and social events. Power for Mobile, the GSMA’s Mwomen working group, the United Nations Global Compact and the ITU. Customers Our 78 million existing customers; Daily interaction across all touch points. potential customers; corporate clients; local distribution channels and sales partners; Suppliers Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. works Conferences; regular meetings with a broad network of manufacturers and Workshops; social and sports events. service providers to continuously improve performance. Employees Our 12077 employees in 7 countries. Employee opinionsurveys; intranet; code of conduct; annual group; departmental workshops and social events. Local Engagement with local communities residing Focus groups and one to one Communities near a network site is mainly in the form of communicaion. consultation for network deployment. Stakeholder Engagement Academia Examples include London Business School, Scholarships; trainings and graduate Engaging with our stakeholders the people who affect our business or who are The French University in Egypt; University programs for employees. affected by it on issues that are important to them is a core stone of how we of Glasgow and Regional Information Technology Institute; manage our corporate social responsibility program. These issues are not merely Media Examples include journalists; press Press releases; social events; working related to our financial performance but also expand to include Orascom Telecom’s associations; TV and radio stations; and news groups and conferences. social, environmental and governance impact on its stakeholders. The feedback wires; we receive from engaging on those issues helps us understand, prioritize and improve issues of importance to our stakeholders. Examples of how we engaged in 2010 & 2011 with our stakeholders can be found below. 11 Business Ethics Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E is committed to achieving and maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance. The Company considers effective corporate governance essential to enhancing shareholders’ value and protecting stakeholders’ interests. Accordingly, the Board attributes a high priority to identifying and implementing appropriate corporate governance practices to ensure transparency, accountability and effective internal controls. The Board continued to further its commitment to corporate governance through reviewing existing processes and, where appropriate, developing new ones. The Company substantially complies with the practices enunciated in the Egyptian Corporate Governance Code and will strive to comply with these and other appropriate standards and governance guidelines. The key corporate governance principles and practices are as follows: The General Assembly The General Assembly (”GA”) of the Company is the ultimate governing body of the Company. In summary, the (”GA”): • Includes all the shareholders of the Company; • Takes its decision by voting among shares represented in the meeting. The voting rule is: 1 share = 1 vote for all shares indifferently; • Holds at least one ordinary meeting per year and may have an extraordinary meeting as needed; • The responsibilities of the GA are based on the laws and Company Statues; • It appoints the board, approves the financial results, appoints the external auditors, and approves dividends distribution. Board of Directors Current Composition of the Board of Directors The Board has the responsibility to work to enhance the • Appoints and has the authority to remove the Chief Executive Chairman Jo Lunder value of the Company in the interest of the Company and its Officer and approves the recommendations of the Human shareholders. In summary, the Board: Resources; Board Members • Is engaged in active and continuous strategic planning and • Ratifies the appointment and has the authority to remove approves corporate strategies, including the approval of the Chief Financial Officer and Group General Counsel and Jo Lunder (Chairman) transactions relating to acquisitions and divestments, and appoints the Company Corporate Secretary; and Ahmed Abou Doma (Chief Executive Officer) capital expenditure above delegated authority limits; • Oversees succession planning for the Chief Executive Officer and senior management. Ragy Soliman (Executive Board Member) • Reviews and approves the corporate plan for the forthcoming year and following two years, including the The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer establish Iskander Shalaby (Non-Executive Board Member) capital expenditure and operating budget, and reviews meeting agendas to ensure adequate coverage of key Mohamed Shaker (Non-Executive Board Member) performance against strategic objectives; issues during the year. In addition workshops and strategy • Assesses business opportunities and risks on an ongoing meetings take place. Executives and other senior people Henk Van Dalen (Non-Executive Board Member) basis and oversees the Company’s control and accountability regularly attend Board meetings and are also available to be Jeffrey McGhie (Non-Executive Board Member) systems; contacted by Directors between meetings. The Board met ten times in 2011. Khalid Ellaicy (Executive Board Member) • Monitors and approves the Company’s financial reporting and dividend policies; The above Board Members classification is based on the Egyptian Corporate Governance code. The latter did not specify the criteria for independent directors that would allow the Company to benchmark against, yet in our opinion and based on internationally recognized best practices, a number of our directors would qualify as independent directors bringing to the company the highest possible standing from both a personal and professional standpoint. Organizational Structure Ahmed A. Doma Group CEO Khalid Ellaicy David Dobbie Anton Telegin Hany Bedair Hesham Shoukry Vincenzo Nesci Ibrahim Badr El Din Group CFO General Counsel Group CCO CTO HR & Administration Director CEO Sub-Saharan Africa Internal Audit Director 14 15 Secretary to the Board Audit Committee Executive Committee Ragy Soliman The objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board The Operational Committee is in charge of the day-to-day operations on the Operational and Holding level, This committee also OTH Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing (i) serves as a bridge between the Management and the Executive Committee to make sure that all are working together for the to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures. The proposed financial plans; (ii) the financial information benefit of the Company. Company Secretary was appointed in July 2003. He joined provided to shareholders and others; (iii) systems of internal the Group in March 2003. controls which management and the Board have established; Group Corporate Responsibility Policy and (iv) the audit process, including both internal and In 2010/011, we developed our group policy that outlines our requirements on corporate responsibility issues that are external audits. The Audit Committee interacts directly important for our operating companies. The issues have been identified using a stakeholder consultation exercise that included Board Committees with the independent auditor to ensure the independent all the different operating companies. The issues outlined in the document include access to communications, employment, • The Board has established a number of committees which auditor’s ultimate accountability to the Board and the environmental responsibility, health and safety, social investment and network roll out. The policy has been approved by the are the most important tools for the management and committee, as representatives of the shareholders, and is Board of Directors and has been communicated to all our local operating companies. the operational integration of the Company and provides directly responsible for the appointment, compensation and To access the complete CSR policy document, please visit www.otelecom.com/csrpolicy. sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their oversight of the independent auditor. duties. Executive Directors are not members of the Audit Committee, although they may be invited to attend Remuneration Committee Disciplinary Actions for Possible Breaches of Business Principles 2010 meetings. The objective of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure Our group whistle blowing policy requires Orascom Telecom employees to report any suspected breaches of ethics, internal It has recently been revised to: that the company has a formal process of considering fraud, or any dishonesty to our group or local internal audit teams. Employees are encouraged to use any of the confidential • Monitor the implementation of strategies and the management and directors’ remuneration that is, executive whistle blowing communication mechanisms such as the hotline or dedicated email address. development of plans and results; directors should play no part in decisions on their own remuneration, there should be an alignment of the • Ensure the overall coordination of business actions and the Total Reports submitted 47 remuneration schemes and the performance objectives of management of the relative cross-over business issues; the Company, and the remuneration schemes should attract Reports requiring investigation 24 • Build up the necessary operating synergies between the and retain talented individuals. Investigation under process 0 various functions involved in the technological, Investigations substantiated 9 business and support processes; and Management Committee • Support the integrated development of the Investigations non substantiated 25 Management Committee has the ultimate responsibility for innovation processes of the Company. directing the activity of the Company, ensuring it is well run Investigations closed 23 • In particular, the Committees Board include: and delivering the outcomes for which it has been set up. The management committee should provide leadership Investment Committee to the Company by: The objective of the Investment Committee is to assist the • Setting the strategic direction to guide and direct the 50 Board in reviewing the Company’s investment policies, activities of the Company; 40 strategies, transactions and performance, and in overseeing • Ensuring the effective management of the Company and its the Company’s capital and financial resources. The Committee activities; and 30 has resources and authority appropriate to discharge its • Monitoring the activities of the Company to ensure they are responsibilities, including the authority to retain experts or in keeping with the founding principles, objects and values. 20 consultants. • In particular, the Committee System of the Company 10 includes: 0 Total Reports Investigation Investigations Investigation Investigation Reports requiring under substantiated non closed 16 17 Our Customers We have simplified our pricing structure for international roaming by using fixed rates per zone rather than the markup model. We have also switched inbound roaming tariffs from local currency to USD. Using local currency in Orascom Telecom Holding’s customers are at the heart of our operations and we are keen to establish a long-term responsible charging inbound roamers exposed us to foreign exchange relationship with them that goes beyond offering the best products and services. Customers constitute a central part of our fluctuation. Therefore, using USD or Euro will hedge against corporate social responsibility program and our goal is to offer them sustainable and innovative products and services across that FX exchange risk. In addition, this new model has also our trustworthy networks. We continually use our technology to contribute to the sustainable development of countries where resulted in additional margin and revenue generation. we operate by investing in mobile application offerings that can improve the standard of living of our customers. We engage with other ICT companies to offer our customers innovative solutions that can protect the environment. In addition, we address To facilitate our customers’ Hajj and Omra religious trips, and respond to customers key concerns such as privacy issues, the clearness of our pricing and we strive to ensure a proper we have offered our customers promotional lower roaming standard of the content available via mobile phones in a conscientious manner. tariffs during Hajj and Omra season. We have partnered with Zain in Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and agreed on a discount The spread of mobile advertising helped our customers receive agreement which resulted in lower tariffs for our customers valuable tips and information; however, there is a risk of misusing travelling from Pakistan and Algeria and higher traffic customers’ personal data. As we expand our mobile services; elasticity and increased margins. we are committed to the protection of our customers’ personal information and we regularly keep track of complaints held up We also provide our customers with an opportunity to against our mobile advertising. Mobile advertising is only offered contribute to sustainable development and reducing their through a third party in partnership with Mobilink. We only disclose energy consumption. We improve our carbon foot print by offering our personal and corporate customers innovative services information about our customers and their communications where such as download portals that include music, software, games, and videos. Online billing is another example of reducing paper legally required by authorities. Protecting children from unsuitable usage, Co2 emissions, and saving natural resources including water and energy. In Algeria, Bangladesh and Central African content is also another responsibility that we are committed to as a Republic, all our customers receive sms notification of their due bills. In Bangladesh 13000 customers receive their bills via E-mail central aspect of Orascom Telecom corporate responsibility. which saves tons of paper annually. The amount of paper saved is expected to increase as we introduce more paper-less billing in our operations. In order to keep up our customer trust in our mobile payment system, it is important to consistently acquaint them with clear Customer Satisfaction pricing and marketing materials. Across our operating companies, we have launched a number of initiatives to help prevent our Our success is driven from the optimal services we provide to our customers. Our goal is not to meet our customers’ expectations customers getting unpredictably high-priced bills. For instance, but to exceed their anticipation of the quality of our customer care. We continually work with our operating companies to our customers are notified by SMS when they reach a certain data improve our complaint management system. Regular customer satisfaction index reports are developed on a monthly basis roaming threshold along the related costs in order to avoid bill to identify areas for improvement and correspondently take a wide range of measures to increase customer satisfaction. In shock. Customers are also notified by SMS with all the roaming addition, we run customer satisfaction index reports by a third party on a quarterly basis with the aim of identifying where do prices whether voice or SMS or GPRS when they roam in each we stand in comparison to our competitors across all our local markets. During 2010 and 2011, our customer care satisfaction country as a means of simplifying the clarity of pricing for roaming. rate reached 90 % across all our operating companies. During the reporting period, we have implemented different initiatives that aimed at improving services provided by our customer care departments such as availing more self services on Web portals and Interactive Voice Response IVR, as well as introducing multilingual and promotional IVRs. We have also deployed new customer relationship management systems in 4 operating companies namely: Banglalink, Laos , Cambodia , and OTA. We have also implemented a wide spectrum of an ongoing quality improvement programs such as monitoring hold time and complains percentage. In Algeria, for example, we have dedicated a team that’s main role is to enhance the quality of customer service delivery. 18 19 Complaints Management Pakistan In order to improve our customer retention, we integrate customer feedback management in our system. Our customers’ Mobilink – Kisan Service feedback is a critical tool that we use to identify areas of improvement, reduce the causes and to eliminate the number of Agriculture forms the backbone of Pakistan’s economy. It accounts complaints we receive across our customer care centres. Across all our operating companies, we have a dedicated complaints for about 21% of GDP and employs about 41% of the labour force. management team that is responsible for analyzing and responding to customers complaints’ received through all channels be Improved productivity and better profit margins for farmers depend it calls, web, email, in stores or mail. These teams are empowered with a number of tools to handle customer complaints in order on the availability of reliable and timely information. Access to this to achieve First Contact Resolution through a value segmented complaints compensation matrix, trouble ticketing and service information is difficult for small farmers who have the most to gain request systems. For each complaint type, there is a Service Level Agreement within which, the complaint should be resolved. from improved information flows. In order to address this gap in the In 2010 the number of complaints received was 0.82% from the total number of subscribers across our operating companies. market and provide inexpensive and timely information to farmers in Pakistan, Mobilink was the first telecom company to launch Pakistan’s first ever cellular based agricultural helpline called the Expanding our Mobile Technology for Development “Kisan Service” Orascom Telecom operating companies continue to invest in products and services that enable more people to use mobile telephony and thus extend access to communications among vulnerable groups. A number of products are already available for deaf, mute and visually impaired people including text messaging, voice mails and emails. For instance, in Pakistan, Voice Kisan Service is a voice service with Dual-tone multi-frequency Service to Teach, an innovative IVR service was launched to will allow visually impaired individuals access audio books from the DTMF. Once users dial in to the number, they are guided through Punjab Board Matriculation curriculum. the menu with a voice recording. Choosing from a variety of options, farmers are able to access the tips that they need. The service aims to help farmers by providing them access to price and weather information as well as advice on harvesting matters. Given that a large majority of farmers in Pakistan, especially those Extending access to communications will help bridge the digital gap in developing countries and emerging markets where at the bottom of the pyramid, do not possess literacy skills, Mobilink chose to introduce this service through voice recognition most of our operating companies exist. Building up our network while tailoring affordable products, services and applications so that literacy would not limit access. Voice prompts are given in Urdu so that more people can understand and use the service maximizes our contribution to a sustainable society and increases our customer base. In 2010 and 2011, a number of Orascom with greater ease. Farmers need to dial 700 from their Mobilink number to get to the Kisan Service. Telecom operating companies including Mobilink, Banglalink and Telecel Zimbabwe have offered applications designed to Farmers can also get Harvest advice which offers solutions to common agricultural problems and advice on overcoming common meet specific needs such as mobile solutions to improve access to education, health care and improving information flows to challenges such as pest eradication. Information on various major crops is offered on the helpline and farmers can choose to farmers working in the agriculture sector. hear harvest advice particular to the crop that they grow. Latest weather information for up to five days helps farmers plan important activities around favourable weather conditions which in turn can help increase productivity and efficiency. Weather information can also help alert farmers to impending weather changes and disasters enabling them to be more prepared to meet weather challenges. Kisan Service is a growing service and Mobilink is in the process of improving and expanding the content available on it in order to provide improved and increased information to Pakistan’s hardworking farmers who are critical to Pakistan’s economic success and the wellbeing of millions across the country. Bangladesh Banglalink – Babsha Jigyasha 7677 In an attempt to help develop and foster SMEs in Bangladesh, Banglalink launched Babsha Jigyasha 7677 a one stop solution that offers business related advice. It’s is a 24hr call center based service where customers are provided solutions to their queries regarding access to finance and business development and documentation process. The access to finance service includes: information relating to the availability of finance for operating or starting a new business such as account opening information, SME loan, deposit, interest rates,...etc. of different banks and micro finance institutions of different regions across the country. The customers can obtain specific information of banking and financial services of their favourable location as well. The business documentation process information assist customers to receive information on the processing of necessary documents including trade license, tin, tax certificate...etc to help facilitate the smooth operation of their business. 20 21 Egypt Orascom Telecom – Teledermatology Project Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E, the GSM Development fund, Qualcomm Incorporated’s Wireless Reach™ initiative, the Egyptian It will also be possible to use the mobile Company for Mobile Services (Mobinil) and ClickDiagnostics Inc., supported by the Ministry of Communications and Information phone to obtain the bank account Technology (MCIT) and the Ministry of Health (MOH), partnered to launch a 3 week pilot program to demonstrate the medical and balance or a mini-statement for the last technical feasibility of telemedicine to facilitate remote diagnosis and treatment of skin conditions in rural Egypt by specialists five transactions on the customer’s bank based in urban areas. The idea for the project was initiated by the GSM Development Fund at the World Mobile Congress in 2008 account. A full range of utility payment and was developed further by a team from Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E and Accenture. In 2009, five dermatologists assigned functionality will also be available in the by MOH at three different sites, were given Acer Liquid (S100) phones enabled by Qualcomm 3G chipsets and equipped with a coming months. mobile application developed by ClickDiagnostics, to allow them to record patient information and take dermatologic photos and upload the data to a password‐secured web portal hosted by MCIT using Mobinil 3G network. The onsite dermatologists Together they have more than 500 000 independently diagnosed each case and recorded their diagnosis. customers, which is almost half the The remote (“consulting”) doctors were able to view the cases on the web portal. The onsite and remote dermatologists’ diagnoses number of individuals currently banked were generated by the mobile application and assigned to a third dermatologist to review the diagnoses and data. Of the 226 within Zimbabwe. It is expected that cases, 198 cases had complete or partial agreement (87.6%) and 186 cases had complete agreement (82.3%). This shows that by the end of the year the banks of with clear photos and sufficient data, remote doctors were very good at getting the same diagnosis. A survey of telemedicine about 85 percent of bank customers studies using the same “store‐and‐forward” approach have found levels of complete diagnostic agreement between 41‐89% in Zimbabwe will be ZimSwitch Ready and levels of partial diagnostic agreement between 51‐95%.1 financial institutions. All that customers The results of the pilot study indicate that mobile teledermatology can be a viable medical solution for the Egyptian health care of the banks going live with their mobile system. General practitioner doctors or specially trained health care workers in remote areas could use this teledermatology banking services require is a Telecel line application and other mobile applications to help diagnose and treat patients in rural areas. Further work needs to be done and a bank card. to test the technology in rural areas and analyze the potential for adding other medical services to the mobile telemedicine platform. The platform is open to all banks. Telecel has chosen to facilitate the provisioning BangladeshBanglalink of this extremely useful service through its fast expanding network. Already Telecel Mobile Remittance covers all major population centres and is The mobile remittance program of Banglalink includes a number of services such as the mobile cash remittance, mobile cash bill embarking on a massive investment drive pay, mobile cash train ticketing, mobile cash insurance pay, and mobile cash concert ticketing. The mobile remittance services to cover the last rural outposts that it had have brought a silent economic revolution in Bangladesh offering easy access to formal banking in a cost effective and speedy not already covered. manner. Across Bangladesh, Banglalink has 1787 Bank accredited mobile cash points. Zimbabwe – Telecel Zim Mobile Banking Telecel, Zimbabwe which is the second largest mobile network operator in terms of subscribers in Zimbabwe has teamed up with ZimSwitch to provide mobile banking for Zimbabweans. The mobile banking service provided by Telecel is powered by Zimswitch which means that all banks that are connected to Zimswitch can easily offer Telecel’s mobile banking. The facility allows customers the convenience to transfer, withdraw, deposit, and receive money using their mobile phones round the clock. Telecel subscribers can transfer up to US$1 000 at any given moment. Customers will also be able to obtain mini-statements of their bank accounts, pay bills, carry out intra and interbank money transfers and buy airtime. 22 23 Our Network Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E mobile network infrastructures serve different segments of customers and provide them with access to information and communications technologies in 7 countries. We offer our customers reliable indoor and out-doors coverage supported by the diverse range of operated narrowband and broadband technologies. We continue to join network sharing ventures to eliminate the duplication of needed base stations and reduce the Electro Magnetic Frequency Emissions. We also continue to closely monitor our operations’ compliance with the rules of the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP). We also continue to carry out regular onsite audits to ensure that contractors and sub-contractors are keeping the standards and quality parameters in addition to compliance with national and international safety as well as our environmental policies and guidelines. The on-site audit includes safety codes designed to ensure that all base stations are within the limits of human exposure to radiation and applies the environmental and health guidelines of local Ministers of Telecommunications, Health and Environmental Affairs, the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, International Commission on Non-ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) and World Health Organization (WHO). Researches on the possible health effects from exposure to base stations, antennas and the wireless network conducted by Hybrid Sites the WHO and the International EMF project have not proven any adverse health effects on human beings. We encouraged our We have 450 hybrid sites deployed in our local operations. Our hybrid systems are combinations of the grid and batteries that operating companies to communicate to their stakeholders’ information relating to the possible effect of EMF on health and increases the number of cycles or generator and batteries with the same technology. Below are the number of hybrid sites per to respond to their concerns. For more information related to the International EMF Project and research conducted on EMF in operation. general, go to www. who.org. At Orascom Telecom in emerging markets, we believe that the expansion of our products and services and the growth of our business have to be convoyed with sustainable plans to reduce our carbon emissions to tackle the problem of climate OPCO Existing number of hybrid sites change. Research shows that the effects of climate change on our operations especially in emerging markets are expected to be significant which will consequently affect our business. At the local markets’ level, we comply with government regulations Mobilink 45 when it comes to reducing our carbon footprint. In addition, Orascom Telecom applies innovation to reduce the climate impacts Banglalink 60 of operations in emerging markets thus reducing carbon emissions and improving the corporate energy efficiency within the Beeline Cambodia 300 value chain. Telecel CAR 70 Orascom Telecom S.A.E Network Telecel Burundi 120 Total base station sites 25,666 Telecel Zimbabwe 120 3G base station sites 24,550 2 G base station sites 1,291 Monitoring System Co-located 3G and 2G sites 214 Monitoring systems offer a comprehensive turnkey solution to meet the technical requirements for the Telemetry based solution for the remote monitoring of cellular sites. Telemetry systems provide real time monitoring and control system Deploying Energy Efficient Technology that provide the monitoring or fuel, electricity, alarms, alerts and take intelligent We focus on reducing CO2 emissions from our mobile network, network sharing, and increasing the number of sites powered decisions in various situations leading to overall reduction in OPEX. The telemetry by alternative energy. Mobile base stations account for the vast bulk of our power consumption and we reduce their energy systems are installed in Burundi and in Cambodia on trial basis. consumption either by replacing diesel generators with renewable energy or fix existing inefficiencies within the network itself to improve its energy intake. We have rolled out a number of innovative technologies such as solar powered sites, hybrid sites, monitoring systems, controller timers, free cooling units and high efficiency power modules. Controller Timers We have deployed controller timers installed in almost all our sites in Paskitan and Bangladesh. The controller timers simply delay the operation of the generator during Solar Sites power outage and make use of the existing back up batteries and thus reduce the We have 210 solar sites deployed sites in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Cambodia and Central African Republic. Solar power is used to generator operating hours reflecting 40% reduction in fuel consumption. provide virtually free energy and reduce OPEX. While the initial CAPEX per kilowatt is higher for such solutions, they provide a positive business case compared with diesel generators within one or two years of operation. The table below shows the solar sites per operating company. Free Cooling Unit Operating company Existing number of solar sites In Pakistan and Bangladesh, we successfully reduce the power consumption of air conditioners across our sites by 50%. The free cooling box is a cost effective and power saving solution for cooling Mobilink 50 and at the same time it is an OPEX saving initiative. The FCU has the advantage of filtering clean air Banglalink 100 and this giving very high cooling performance with low power consumption while maintaining Beeline Cambodia 50 the environmental temperature, dust and humidity. Telecel CAR 10 26 27 Our Employees Orascom Telecom depends on its employees to continue to serve its customers with excellence. We endeavour to attract the most excellent talents, develop their skills and capabilities and retain them to be part of our dynamic corporate culture. We have taken key measures to motivate our employees, acquaint them with the needed training and development support and offer them exciting career opportunities. We continuously work on improving our corporate culture and engage our employees to ensure we facilitate an allencompassing working environment that paves the way for creativity and new ideas. As of 2011, Orascom Telecom’s work force totalled 12082 including full time, part-time, interns and expats employees worldwide. There has been an increase by 10 percent compared to 2009. Women make up 21 percent of Orascom Telecom total headcount which is the same/ not the same compared to 2010. Our global workforce are present in 10 countries out of which 34 percent are based in the Middle East (Egypt, and Algeria), 49 percent are based in Asia Pacific (Pakistan and Bangladesh), 8 percent are based in Africa (Zimbabwe, Central African Republic and Burundi), and 9 percent in Canada. Across our operating companies, Orascom Telecom strives to offer employees competitive benefits for their functioning and provide them with a rewarding work environment such as training, inter-departmental and across operations rotation opportunities, coaching, pension plans, medical insurance and corporate performance rewarding incentive plans. However, competitive rewards vary considerably from one operating company to the other depending on the country, local salary structures, local labour laws...etc. Breakdown of Work force by operating company as of 2011 Diversity and Inclusion Operating Company Full time Expatriate Consultant Temporary Total For Orascom Telecom, diversity is an advantage that contributes to the success of our business, and helps us in meeting the needs of our diversified customers in nine different countries. We promote diversity within and outside our work place because OrascomTelecom HQ 236 5 241 we believe it is a key of driving creativity and innovation within the Orascom Telecom’s corporate culture. In 2011, we developed Orascom Telecom Algeria 2693 1254 3947 our group corporate responsibility policy which outlines our commitment to ethical conduct in various aspects of our business. Mobilink 3336 5 3341 The policy defines the highest standards of respect to diversity, equal treatment of all employees regardless of gender, ethical background, religion, or nationality. Our employment policy also emphasizes the importance of gender equality when it comes Banglalink 1365 16 1082 2409 to the recruitment and promotion process. In 2010, Orascom Telecom signed the CEO Statement of support to the Women Telecel CAR 191 6 254 451 Empowerment Principles-Equality Means Business, as a voluntary commitment from the company towards the promotion of Telecel Zimbabwe 265 4 5 47 321 gender equality and women’s empowerment. Across our operations, we encourage gender equality; however, percentage of Leo Burundi 226 5 5 4 240 female employees differs from one region to the other. Wind Mobile 1043 2 48* 41 1132 Breakdown of Workforce by Gender TOTAL 9355 43 58 2682 12082 Operating Company Females 2009 Females 2010 Females 2011 * Not on company’s payroll OrascomTelecom HQ 50 60 57 Orascom Telecom Algeria 1149 1439 1366 Performance Management Mobilink 800 570 531 Annual performance appraisal is an essential communication tool to keep our employees informed of their performance and help them identify needed training. Across our operating and managed mobile operators, all employees receive a regular Banglalink 198 114 129 performance review that is conducted on an annual basis. The performance appraisal process is automated using a software Telecelglobe 173 application for objective setting, competency assessments, and performance appraisal. The competency assessment is also used Telecel CAR 39 51 to determine the training needed to develop employees’ abilities such as communication skills, flexibility, and time management Telecel Zimbabwe 67 89 among other job related competencies. Annual performance appraisals allow each employee to receive a performance against objectives rating, feel that their efforts are acknowledged and consequently rewards decisions become self explanatory. Leo Burundi 54 61 Wind Mobile 199 325 342 Gender Diversity in Management for 2011 Operating Company Female Female Senior Female Directors Managers Managers and above OrascomTelecom HQ 17 Orascom Telecom Algeria 28 8 3 Mobilink 14 4 3 Banglalink 3 3 0 Telecel CAR 1 1 0 Telecel Zimbabwe 2 3 Leo Burundi 5 4 2 Wind Mobile 15 9 30 31 Employee Health and Safety According to Orascom Telecom Group corporate responsibility policy, “protecting the health and safety of our employees and contractors can make a significant difference to their working and personal lives”. In order to achieve this, we apply management systems that minimize work related fatalities, accidents and probable injuries. Across all our local operating companies, we comply with and go beyond local regulations when it comes to ensuring a safe working environment for our employees. We also undertake trainings, and preventive procedures to elude occupational health risks. In 2010, Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E has been certified by TUV that it has completed its Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems OHSAS 18001 requirements. The new system includes identifying occupational hazards and risks, preparing controls and continuous motoring and auditing. This proactive health system also set requirements for minimum standards for hygiene, first aid and vaccinations required before travel to certain countries of operations. Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E Work Related Fatalities 2010 / 2011 Work related fatality None Employee Turnover Orascom Telecom GSM Average Training Hour per Employee In 2011, our group turnover rate was 11.9% compared to 9.5% in 2009. The turnover ratios vary from one country to another; as such, we have explicit guidelines regarding local recruitment policy that comply with local regulations. In accordance, the Operating Company 2010 2011 minimum notice periods we apply comply with local labor laws and legislations. OrascomTelecom HQ Orascom Telecom Algeria 31 18 Employee Turnover rate by region Mobilink 6 18 Banglalink 16.86 16.11 Region Turnover rate 2011 Telecel CAR 8.6 7.92 Middle East and Africa 12.7% Telecel Zimbabwe 23.7 31.1 Asia 6.24% Leo Burundi 20.55 35.33 North America 39% Wind Mobile 60 17 Training and Development Orascom Telecom invests in training and developing its employees to help them realize their full potential. We aim at providing our employees with a continuing training environment where employees can apply their talent and expertise and be prepared to take challenges. In 2011 Orascom Telecom group invested 2,890,518 USD on training and development, delivered through a number of techniques. The economic crisis in 2010 has put pressure on all our spending including the training and development component. However, in order to realize our commitment towards our employees, we have replaced overseas training with online and local training events. For instance, Orascom Telecom Algeria offered its employees 25 different e-learning courses that included managerial skills, soft skills and commercial curriculums. We continue to hold cross operations events and workshops to promote diversity and facilitate knowledge sharing and exchange of experiences 32 Our Environmental Responsibility The telecommunication industry has both direct and indirect impacts on the environment. At Orascom Telecom, we believe that reducing our considerable impacts on the environment is a major aspect of our corporate responsibility program. Decreasing our energy usage in our operations and minimizing our waste not only lessen our operating costs, but also helps us demonstrate leadership in tackling our environmental issues. As a result of the growing interest in environmental issues, our stakeholders expect our operating companies to abide by local environmental laws and regulations and set vigorous environmental requirements. We have begun to respond to this trend by increasing the control over the environmental impacts of our operations. In 2010, our environmental management system for Orascom Telecom HQ office in Cairo was certified by TUV for ISO 14001. Orascom Telecom Group environmental policy commits all local operating companies to improve their energy efficiency, to minimize their office, network and stores waste, and to encourage reuse and recycling. Across our operations, the main environmental issues that were brought to our attention are energy efficiency and climate change, handset reuse and recycling and waste management. We apply a decentralized approach to managing local environmental issues; however, we plan to prioritize particular issues at the group level and develop group wide operational programs with local targets to tackle those environmental impacts. In 2012 we are planning to start a group wide data collection process to improve the quality of environmental data which will include the amount of waste generated, amount of paper, electricity and water consumed and recycled. Below are some examples of how local operating companies manage their environmental impact. Over the Air Charging Over the air charging OTAR is a paper-less solution for prepaid, post-paid and corporate customers which is the most effective scheme to help customers reduce their environmental impact. We believe that the ultimate solution for waste management begins by efficient use of resources. Paper-less billing initiatives not only fulfill the above points but also contribute to customer satisfaction. Currently our main schemes and respective savings are CD for corporate accounts, SMS advice and E-billing. The table below illustrates the paper less billing method offered by our operations. Operation CD for Corporate SMS Advice E-billing Banglalink In process √ √ Djezzy In process √ √ Mobilink √ √ √ Handset Recycling Handset recycling schemes are key illustration of our commitment to responsible product stewardship and environmental responsibility. Across our operations, we always strive to give our customers an opportunity to be part of our environmental program and reduce their carbon footprint. Mobilink initiated a handset recycling project to collect mobile phones and accessories no longer in use, refurbish repairable items and donate them to the Pakistan Association of the Dead and Disabled Welfare Association. All donations greatly benefit hearing impaired and physically disable individuals by connecting them with the people around them and providing an essential source of communication. Items beyond repair are disposed of in an environmentally-friendly manner in order to ensure toxic chemicals found in mobile phones do not pollute the air or leak into groundwater. Recycle drop boxes are placed at Mobilink Customer Care centres across the country making it accessible for everyone. (Photo of Handset recycling bin) Orascom Telecom hosts the Green Power for Mobile in Cairo In March 2010, Orascom Telecom Holding proudly hosted the GSMA Association’s Green Power for Mobile meeting in Cairo. The Green Power for Mobile is one of the most active groups in GSMA; consisting of 30 mobile operators in emerging markets, it aims to broaden the use of renewable energies like solar and wind power thus reducing carbon emissions, fossil fuel consumption and at the same time providing environmentally sustainable solutions for the industry. Since launching the group in September 2008, there has been a huge increase in implementing renewable energies in mobile operators. It became necessary to share experiences, learn and stay updated through meetings like this one featuring: presentations from major global operators, vendors and energy companies on large scale green network solutions. 36 37 Our Social Investment Orascom Telecom delivers its social investment program in countries in which it operates through its local social investment programs and local corporate foundations. Orascom Telecom provides support to programs and projects that contributes to the social development and improves the standard of living through direct financial donations, in kind, as well as employee donations and volunteering. In 2000, the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were created and all 193 United Nations member states and at least 23 international organizations have agreed to achieve them by the year 2015. This global alliance aims at eradicating extreme poverty, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality and empowering women, reducing child mortality rates, improving maternal health, combating HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases, ensuring environmental sustainability, and developing a global partnership for development. Across our operating companies and through our products and social investment program, we contribute to the achievement of the MDGs. Below are some examples. ome examples. MDG Goal Country Example of our Contribution Eradicate extreme poverty Bangladesh & The launch of mobile-banking is helping people access to banking service Zimbabwe anytime and anywhere which will boost rural economy and national output by scaling up money circulation in villages in Bangladesh and Zimbabwe. Achieve universal primary eduZimbabwe In Zimbabwe, Burundi and Central African Republic, we have been supporting cation primary school education by providing bursary schemes and financial support to help students who can’t afford enroll in schools and continue their education. Promoting gender equality Pakistan In partnership with UNESCO Mobilink in Pakistan has been empowering and empower women women and young ladies through the provision of literacy to adolescent girls using mobile phones. Reduce child mortality Pakistan Mobilink has partnered with the Polio Eradication Fraternity including UNICEF and Ministry of Health, to help create awareness of this disease. Improve maternal health Egypt Our services can improve maternal healthcare services considerably especially in remote areas where access to health units is difficult. Orascom Telecom in partnership with and Great Connections have piloted a new service “Mobile baby” in partnership with Great Connections. Combat HIV/AIDS, Burundi Leo Burundi provides direct financial donation to children schools and forces along with operators from across the mobile world and global football stars, the football world and FIFA, together with malaria and other diseases orphanages. The target beneficiaries are children whom are whose parents educational champions, charities and campaigners to support 1GOAL – a legacy of the FIFA Football World Cup 2010™ to give are HIV positive. all children in the world the chance in life an education brings. Ensure Across the Group Across our operations, we reduce our carbon emissions and energy Environmental sustainability consumptions by using alternative energy generation techniques such as Bangladesh – Banglalink solar power and wind energy. ICT Support for Underprivileged Children As part of Banglalink’s commitment to promote effective and quality education in Bangladesh and as part of supporting ‘Digital Bangladesh’, Banglalink has set up computer labs in 270 underprivileged schools. The project aims at imparting computer Egypt – Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E literacy to students who are deprived from practicing their computer science syllabus. 1 Goal Education for All The computer labs are equipped with PC, laptop, internet modem, multimedia projector, speakers and microphone. Starting In February 2010, Orascom Telecom Holding (OTH) joined global Mobile operators’ forces in the world’s largest cause-related in Tungipara and Kotalipara with 20 computer labs, Banglalink has widened its project with 76 labs at Monirumpur, while 154 campaign in support of universal education at the FIFA World Cup™ 2010. The ‘1Goal: Education for all’ campaign was announced more schools are in the pipeline. In this regard, the Government and Banglalink also organized a launching program and an at the World Mobile Congress which took place in Barcelona and continued until the World Cup final in South Africa on 11th July. orientation for over 2,000 teachers of Monirumpur on 23rd of December, 2010 at Monirumpur Upazila Porishad office. The campaign, which was under the personal patronage of Her Majesty Queen Rania Al Abdullah of Jordan, is an initiative to ensure that every child in the world has the opportunity to go to school by 2015. EgyptOrascom Telecom Holding GSM operators who serve more than 1 billion mobile users delivered an international mobile communications campaign that Orascom Telecom sponsors French University in Egypt to compete in SIFE World Cup combines the platform of the world’s biggest sporting occasion with the world’s largest medium, to harness public support for Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E proudly sponsored the SIFE Egypt team from the French University in Egypt to compete in SIFE 1GOAL. 2010 World Cup. The French University in Egypt was Named 2010 SIFE World Cup Champion for a second consecutive year. This The mobile campaign – coordinated by the GSMA comprised a host of mobile communications tools, including mobile win is unprecedented in the more than 30 year history of the history of this global organization, where the same university won advertising, applications and messaging. These tools enabled millions of people to sign up, via a host of mobile response the World Cup in two successive years. The competition took place in Anaheim, California, October 10-12th where 39 national mechanisms, demonstrating to global leaders and the UN that universal education is a universal demand. champion university teams representing 39 countries presented their civic engagement projects. Orascom Telecom Holding along with its subsidiaries Mobinil and Djezzy, and sister company Wind Greece have joined 40 41 SIFE (Students In Free Enterprise) an international non-profit organization that brings together the leaders of today and Social Responsibility (CSR) umbrella, the SMS is a free service Mobilink’s total contribution to the flood relief efforts was USD tomorrow to create a better, more sustainable world through the positive power of business. Founded in 1975, SIFE has active and no charges apply for sending messages to the 7654 2.7 million including a donation of Rs 85 million from Orascom programs on more than 1,500 college and university campuses in over 40 countries. For more information contact SIFE World number. Within hours of the launch of the service, thousands Telecom Holding, Mobilink employees’ salary donation of Headquarters at 417-831-9505 or visit www.sife.org of Mobilink users contacted the PCC for immunization. Rs 6.7 million and pre-fabricated shelters equivalent to Rs Through SIFE, students around the world are discovering that “doing well” and “doing good” can be accomplished simultaneously Recently Mobilink also helped support a polio awareness 140 million. The shelters were committed to renowned throughout college and career. More than 400 global business leaders assembled at the Anaheim Convention Center October walk in Sukkur. Mobilink helped spread awareness about international organizations and local NGOs including the World 11-12 to evaluate the outreach projects of 39 national champion teams. The teams were judged on how successful they’ve been Polio eradication and prevention by putting up informational Health Organization (WHO) and Thardeep Rural Development at using business solutions to create economic opportunity for others. banners across the city. The banners helped spread awareness Program (TRDP) and were used to establish Basic Health Units about the need to get children under the age of 5 immunized (BHUs) to meet the medical needs of the flood victims across The French University in Egypt award-winning projects include helping women who lived in poverty due to social and cultural during each immunization campaign in the area. Pakistan. limitations achieve income by starting sustainable businesses weaving rugs and bags. The team also implemented natural and low cost method to purify contaminated water and built 6 purification unites in El Alatma village. They taught farmers how to All funds generated by Mobilink were channeled through build the purifying units and use them for irrigation of corps. the Mobilink Foundation and was able to reach out to more Local Foundations than 115,000 flood victims in severely affected locations by The Other top-four finalists included: In Pakistan our social investment contributions are channeled the floods across Pakistan. Over, 95,000 bottles of water, 3,000 Second Place: University of Nottingham Ningbo, China. through the social investment program of Mobilink as bags of flour, 5,950 packs of dry food rations and 7,865 packs Third Place: Belmont University, United States of America. well as the Mobilink Foundation which receives its funds of ready to eat food, 6,100 hygiene kits and 3,100 non-food from Mobilink’s employees’ donations and other local and items were distributed among the flood affectees. Mobilink Fourth Place: Loyola College, India. international donors. have also supported the rehabilitation phase of flood relief whereby 60 houses were constructed nationwide. Mobilink Burundi Leo Central African Republic Telecel The Mobilink Foundation was recognized by the Overseas Investor’s Chamber of Commerce and Industries (OICCI) as a top donor in flood relief Leo Burundi’s Educational Assistance Program began in March In 2009, Telecel CAR began to provide financial support to Mobilink Flood Relief Efforts amongst member companies. 2009 and it has benefited 1643 schoolchildren. The programme organisations assisting vulnerable children, particularly in provides assistance with the education of disadvantaged respect of their educational needs. It provided assistance The Mobilink Foundation has channeled the relentless energy children, including orphans and children with disabilities, to four organisations namely SOS Village, which looks after and fervor of the Mobilink employees, who volunteered their channelling its assistance through eight institutions. The children who have been orphaned, abandoned or are in time, energy and expertise in relief process – from procurement programme contributes to the educational development of need of care, Voix du Coeur, which assists street children, to distribution on ground. In fact the key driver in Moblink’s children in both urban and rural communities who are unable and Femme-Enfant-Solidarité, which provides assistance to efforts was employee volunteerism. to afford basic educational facilities. Assistance includes vulnerable girls. Telecel provided them with school supplies, school fees, uniforms, and stationary items, such as pencils such as notebooks, bags and pens. Torchbearers Education Initiatives and exercise books, and equipment for handicapped students. Improving Health Practices and Access for Medical Services The Mobilink Foundation is involved in several educational The institutions to which Leo Burundi has provided assistance support initiatives. Mobilink Torchbearers have been are: Association RET (Association Regard à l’Enfant Traumatise), involved in supporting schools across Pakistan throughout which takes care of children traumatised by the war in Pakistan – Mobilink 2010 and 2011 through their volunteer program. The Burundi, Association ASENBU (Association pour L’Enfant Non Preventing Polio Torchbearers donated numerous volunteer hours to schools Acompagné de Buyengero), which takes care of children in the In 2010, Mobilink launched an SMS based service to assist the for underprivileged children across Pakistan. Torchbearers Buyengero region affected by the war, École EPHPHATA, which Polio Control Cell (PCC) in tracking missed areas and children. in various activities participated in the maintenance and is a school in Bujumburu for the deaf and mute, CESDA (Centre Through this SMS service, Mobilink subscribers were able Mobilink led one of the largest private sector initiatives for white-washing of schools, in donating essential items such as Spécialisé pour Deficients Auditifs), which is a school in Gitega to report areas and children where the polio immunization flood relief in Pakistan and is ranked the top donor amongst books, computers, stationary, school bags and food items to province for children who are deaf or have hearing difficulties, teams have not reached. Users were able to call the teams the Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce and Industries underprivileged students. Ecole KANURA, a school for the blind, Ecole RUMURI, which is to their doorstep by typing POLIO and sending the text to (OICCI) member companies who contributed to the relief a school for the blind in Gitega Province, Association Solidarité ‘7654.’ The sender is then contacted by the Polio Control Cell efforts. pour Aider les Sinistrés Burundais, and Centre Handicapé de to ensure that the respective health authorities immunize Kiganda. the missed children. Initiated by Mobilink under its Corporate 42 43 GRI Table of Content Indicator 3.1 Reporting period. Description Status 3. Report Parameters • Report Section About this report Page(s) 06 Explanatory Notes 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. • About this report 06 We have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines to guide our corporate responsibility reporting. This GRI Content 3.3 Reporting cycle. • About this report 06 Index is provided to assist readers in navigating the report and understanding how our report aligns with the GRI’s G3 Sustainability Guidelines. Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Message from Group 3.4 • 04 content. Executive Chairman Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes 3.5 Process for defining report content. • About this report 06 1. Strategy and Analysis 3.6 Boundary of the report. • About this report 06 Statement from the most senior decision maker. Message from Group 3.7 Limitations on scope and/or report boundary. • About this report 06 1.1 • 04 Executive Chairman 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. • About this report 06 Description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Message from Group For additional information Data measurement techniques and the bases of About this report Executive Chairman, on financial, market, 3.9 • 06 calculations. Message from CEO regulatory and credit risks, Our Social Investment please refer to pages 67, 68 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of About this report, Our 1.2 • 04,40 3.10 • 02, 40 & 69 of Orascom Telecom information provided in earlier reports. Social Investment 2009 annual report. This report can be found at Significant changes from previous reporting periods About this report 3.11 • 02 www.otelecom.com (scope, boundary or measurement methods). 2. Organization Profile Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures GRI Table of Content 3.12 • 44 in the report. 2.1 Name of Organization • About this report 02,03 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking About this report Primary brands, Products, and/or services. About Orascom 3.13 • 02 2.2 • 06,07 external assurance for the report. Telecom Holding S.A.E 4. Governance, Ethics and Commitments Operational structure of the organization, including main About Orascom 2.3 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint • Telecom Holding S.A.E 06,07 Governance structure of the organization, including Corporate Governance 4.1 • 12,14 ventures. committees under the highest governance body. and Ethics Location of Organization’s headquarters. About Orascom Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance Corporate Governance 2.4 • 06,07 4.2 • 12,14 Telecom Holding S.A.E body is also an executive officer. and Ethics Number /names of countries where the organization About Orascom Number of members of the highest governance body Corporate Governance 2.5 • 06,07 4.3 • 12,14 operates. Telecom Holding S.A.E that are independent and/or non-executive members. and Ethics Nature of Ownership and legal form. About Orascom Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Corporate Governance 2.6 • 06,07 4.4 • 12,14 Telecom Holding S.A.E recommendations to the highest governance body. and Ethics Markets served (e.g., geographic breakdown, sectors, About Orascom Linkages between compensation for members of Corporate Governance 2.7 • 06,07 4.5 the highest governance body, senior managers, and • and Ethics 12,14 customers). Telecom Holding S.A.E executives, and the organization’s performance. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. • About this report. 02 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Corporate Governance Significant changes during the reporting period. Message from the 4.6 • 12,14 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. and Ethics 2.9 • Group Executive 04 Chairman. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Managing our 4.7 of the members of the highest governance body on • Corporate Social 10,11 Awards received in the reporting period. Message from the Group 2.10 • Executive Chairman, Our 04 economic, environmental, and social (EE&S) topics. Responsibility Customers • Covered Partially Covered Not covered • Covered Partially Covered Not covered 44 45 Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Internally developed statements of mission or values, About Orascom Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 4.8 • 06 EC2 codes of conduct, and principles. Telecom Holding S.A.E for the organization’s activities due to climate change Procedures of the highest governance body for Managing our Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan EC3 4.9 overseeing the organization’s identification and • Corporate Social 12 obligations. management of EE&S performance. Responsibility Significant financial assistance received from EC4 Processes for evaluating the highestgovernance body’s Managing our government. 4.10 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, • Corporate Social 12 Aspect: Market Presence environmental, and social performance. Responsibility. Range of rations of standard entry level wage compared Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Our Employees EC5 to local minimum wage at significant locations of 4.11 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. • Environmental 29,30 operation. Responsibility Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locallyExternally developed economic, environmental, and About this report EC6 based suppliers at significant locations of operation. social charters, principles subscribed to. – Our Customers 4.12 • 02,36 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Our Employees Environment EC7 management hired from the local community at • 29,30 Responsibility significant locations of operation. Memberships in associations and/or advocacy About this report – Aspect: Indirect Economic Impact organizations. Corporate Governance 4.13 • 14,16 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Our Social Investment and Ethics – Our Customers EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit • 40 through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Promoting Ongoing 4.14 • DialogueEngaging 11 Understanding and describing significant indirect Our Customers Our EC9 • 40,18 Our Stakeholders economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Social Investment Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. Promoting Ongoing 6. Human Rights Indicators 4.15 • DialogueEngaging 11 Percentage and total number of significant investment Our Stakeholders HR1 agreements that include human right clauses of that Approaches to stakeholder engagement. Promoting Ongoing have undergone human tights screening. 4.16 • DialogueEngaging 11 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that Our Stakeholders HR2 have undergone screening on human rights and action Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Our Customers, Our For additional information taken. stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has Employees. on 2009 Financial Total hours of employees training on policies and responded to those key topics and concerns including performance, please refer to 18,19, procedures concerning aspects of human tights that 4.17 through its reporting. • page 03 of Orascom Telecom HR3 28,29 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 2009 Annual Report. This report can be found at www. employees trained. otelecom.com Aspect: Non-discrimination 5. Economic Performance Indicators Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Our Employees We did not have any Economic Performance taken. 28,29, formal complaints HR4 • 30 or incidents of Direct economic value generated and distributed, About Orascom For additional information discrimination. including revenues, operating costs, employees’ Telecom Holding on 2009 Financial compensation, donations and other community S.A.E – Our Social performance, please refer Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Investment. to pages 04, 07, 31-83 of EC 1 • 06 Operations identified in which the right to exercise providers and governments. Orascom Telecom 2009 Annual Report. This report freedom of association and collective bargaining may HR5 can be found at be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these www.otelecom.com rights. • Covered Partially Covered Not covered • Covered Partially Covered Not covered 46 47 Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents Our Employees Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskOur Employees HR6 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the • 29 control programs in place to assist workforce members, LA8 30, 31 elimination of child labor. their families, or community members regarding serious Aspect: Formed and Compulsory Labor diseases. Operations identified as having significant risk for Our Employees Health and safety topics covered in agreements with LA9 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures trade unions. HR7 • 29 taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or Aspect: Training and Education compulsory labor. Average hours of training per year per employee by Our Employees LA10 • 30, 31 Aspect: Security Practices employee category. Percentage of security personnel trained in the Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Our Employees HR8 organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects LA11 that support the continued employability of employees • 30, 31 of human rights that are relevant to operations. and assist them in managing career endings. Aspect: Indigenous Rights Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Our Employees LA12 • 30, 31 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Business Ethics and career development reviews. HR9 • 17 indigenous people and actions taken. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 7. Labor Practices and Decent Work Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Our Employees Aspect: Employment employees per category according to gender, age, group, LA13 30, 31 minority group membership, and other indicators of Total workforce by employment type, employment Our Employees diversity. LA1 • 30, 31 contract and region. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Our Employees LA14 LA2 30, 31 category. group, gender, and region. 8. Product Responsibility Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Our Employees LA3 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major • 30, 31 Aspect: Customer Health and Safety operations. Product cycle stages in which health and safety impacts Our Network Aspect: Labor/Management relations of products and services are assessed for improvement, PR1 26, 27 and percentage of significant products and services Percentage of employees covered by collective categories to such procedures. LA4 bargaining agreement. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Minimum notice period (s) regarding significant Our Employees regulations and voluntary codes concerning health LA5 operational changes, including whether it is specified in • 30, 31 PR2 and safety impacts of products and services by type of collective agreements. outcomes. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Aspect: Products and Services Labeling Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Our Environmental A Health and Safety Type of product and service information required by management-worker health and safety committees that Responsibility committee is currently PR3 procedures and percentage of significant products and LA6 help monitor and advice on occupational health and 37 being established as services subject to such information requirements. safety programs. part of the OHSAS 18011 requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Our Employees service information and labeling, by type of outcome. LA7 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities 30, 31 by region. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Our Customers PR5 18, 19 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. • Covered Partially Covered Not covered • Covered Partially Covered Not covered 48 49 Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Aspect: Market Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary PR6 codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complains regarding PR8 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 9. Society Aspect: Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs Managing our and practices that assess and manage the impacts Corporate Social SO1 • 10, 11 of operations on communities, including entering, Responsibility. operating and exiting. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed SO2 for risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiSO3 corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Aspect: Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to SO6 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. • Covered Partially Covered Not covered Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E 2005A, Nile City Towers South Tower, Cornishe El Nile, Ramlet Beaulac, 11221 Cairo, Egypt Tel.: +202 2461 5050/51 Fax: +202 2461 5054/55 www.orascomtelecom.com If you need more information, please write to: Corporate Social Responsibility Unit Ms. Yasmine Negm csr@otelecom.com w w w .ora s c omte le c om.c om
