UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2011 Table of Contents Slide CEO Statement of Support 3 About Medine 45 Progress on Human Rights 6 Progress on Labour Standards 7 Progress on Environment Protection 8 Progress on Anti-Corruption 9 Action in the Community 100 Partnerships 11 Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 2 Statement of Support I am pleased to confirm that Medine reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders. With the support of the United Nations Global Compact, Medine aims to move the agenda forward on issues related to the four principles’ areas, both internally and at the national level (in Mauritius). Kindly find hereunder the COP of Medine Limited for the year 2011. Dany Giraud Chief Executive Officer Medine Limited Aug 2012 Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 3 About Medine Medine is a privately-owned company located in the West of Mauritius, where it owns over 10,000 hectares of land. As from 1911, Medine built its identity through sugar cane cultivation. The group’s visionary choices and the determination of its workers contributed to Medine’s development throughout the century. Medine is now active in the sectors of Agriculture, Leisure and Property development. VISION To be a unique lifestyle provider through integrated sustainable development of property, leisure, agroagro -business and services. VALUES Customer Focus Entrepreneurship We strive to fulfil our customer’s expectations in terms of We utilize our ability to combine strength with speed in products and services for an improved quality of life, hence responding enthusiastically to every new opportunity and every deserving his trust and fidelity. new challenge. Innovation and Creativity Dedication Everywhere in Medine, we encourage and value creativity and We strive to be committed in everything we do, whether in the sense of initiative that have been key to our dynamism since providing the latest and best products and services to our 1911. customers, in delivering value to our shareholders or in Responsibility contributing to our communities. We strongly believe that no progress is sustainable if it does not ProPro-activity take into account the social cohesion and the environment. We demonstrate individual leadership through a positive Medine values dialogue and strives to be a model corporate approach to every task, a can-do spirit, and a restless citizen in the workplace and in the community. determination to continually improve upon our personal bests as Quality part of our Quality improvement culture. We each lead through We strive to excel in every aspect of our business and approach our competence, creativity, and teamwork. every challenge with a determination to succeed. We strive for continuous improvement and respond vigorously to change. Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 4 Our Corporate Social Responsibility 1. ENVIRONMENT 2. ETHICS Reduce our Take responsibility negative impact on for our actions and the environment promote ethical and help others do business practices. the same. MEDINE 3. WORKPLACE 4. COMMUNITY Support the growth, Help disadvantaged development and people to help fulfillment of themselves via the our people. Fondation Medine Horizons. Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 5 Human Rights Objectives Our objectives are to influence our management, employees and business partners to be aware of and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Implementation • We have set up a code of conduct which is available on our website and intranet to make our position clear to stakeholders. • We have added on the intranet a link to an informative document that explains the impact and role of companies towards human rights :http://www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/issues_doc/human_rights/Resources/Presentation_Droits_de_l_homme.pdf • We have assessed the company salary policy and can report that – The company guarantees a decent minimum salary to its employees, in line with the sectorial criteria for a decent remuneration (there is no national minimum salary), and in line with national recommendations for compensation. – Our employees are guarantied the discretional use of their salaries. – the company pays salaries on a regular basis and does not proceed with any kind of deductions based on disciplinary sanctions.. • Also in order to prevent any involuntary human rights abuse, our human resources department works closely with the Ministry of Labour, Industrial Relations and Employment and strives to implement all the latter’s recommendations on the topic.. Outcomes • The Intranet page on Medine’s commitment to Business Ethics (incl. Human Rights) was visited 160 times in 2011. • We have a system in place that encourage employees to report suspected wrongful doing in regards to our Code of Conduct. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 6 Labour Our Stand Medine support the UNGC principles on labour standards, and strived to go beyond local laws on the topic, especially on Health and Safety Environment. Implementation In 2001, Medine has: • Written, published and shared its “General Policy on Health and Safety at Work” (available on our Intranet). • Set up of a HSE committee to uphold and promote the policy (Agriculture cluster). • Ensured that all employees have updated written employment contracts that are in line with the national standards (All). • In line with Principle 3, like every year, Medine has held meetings with all its workers representatives (Agriculture) and continues to inform them officially on all company decisions that may affect employees. • Although Medine is fully compliant with the Principles 4 and 5, our human rights department pays attention to these issues throughout the year. Outcomes • Three meetings with unions’ representatives, including on the exit of Medine from the Mauritius Sugar Producers Association. • All employees have access to the “General Policy on Health and Safety at Work” – 160 visits to the intranet page in 2011. • All employees have an updated and detailed employment contract. Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 7 Environment Our stand Medine support the UNGC principles on the Environment and has included them in its Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, in which it acknowledges its duty to protect the natural environment for future generations. Implementation In 2011, Medine has : • Set up a Natural Resources Department (NRD) to run, interalia, the composting of green waste (Agriculture) • Installed a composting plant near the Tamarina Golf course, to compost the golf’s green waste (Leisure) • Initiated a Paper 3R (reduce, reuse, recycle) policy for all offices (Leisure) • Contracted “Don’t Waste”, a local company that collects and recycles paper, plastics and glass, for the Cascavelle Shopping Village that opened in October 2011. • Participated in the National Consultations on Mauritius Ile Durable led by the Ministry of Environment and Prime Minister’s Office( June – August 2011, General). Outcomes • The Natural resources department has led the following activities:  Produced 12,000 tons of compost using by-products of the sugarcane industry (bagasse, flyash and scum), vegetable wastes and other organic wastes  replaced chemical fertiliser in sugarcane and vegetable fields.  Collection of unsorted municipal waste of the Agro cluster, and disposal at La Chaumière.  Ensured compliance with the government’s policy on the sound management of hazardous waste (i.e. organising and supervising the safe disposal of asbestos, used oil filters and wheels).  Management of fly-ash decantation ponds during the crop season to prevent infiltrations in soil and pollution. • Medine sugar factory’s ISO 14001 certification was renewed for the 3rd year. (Agriculture) • All paper, plastics and glass waste from Cascavelle Shopping village is collected and recycled.(Property) • All paper waste is deposited biweekly in a Recycling bin installed and managed by Mission Verte, a local NGO (www.missionverte.com )(Leisure). Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 8 Anti-Corruption Our stand Medine supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption. We have taken this public stand by publishing the Medine Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, endorsed by the Board of Directors in November 2011. Implementation • The Code of Conduct lists and details the standards of behaviour to which Medine has adhered. These standards constitute guidelines for employees in conducting the company's activities. They go beyond the requirements of the law as they share the values and the culture of the company. • It was shared with all employees, who are required to comply with the moral, ethical and legal standards contained in it. • Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website, as well as on the intranet, and in new employees’ Induction Handbook. • We have a whistle-blowing system in place for any Code violation. Outcomes There were 160 consultations (clicks) of the Business Ethics intranet page. No incidents have been reported since the whistle-blowing system has been implemented. Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 9 Action in the Community Medine Entrepreneur Scheme (MES) (MES) The Craft Incubator The Medine Entrepreneur Scheme is Medine’s microcredit scheme, created to The Craft Incubator moved to Bambous and support small entrepreneurs in the Medine catchment area. It has to date continued to train and support 20 artisans from supported 22 entrepreneurs (mainly women) with a total amount of over USD the region in handicraft using coconut, textile and recycled materials. 125,000. The non-technical support was mainly in New ventures supported by MES include a car-wash service and a pastry caterer. marketing. This project aims to professionalise MES is managed by the Corporate Sustainability Department with the collaboration the Mauritian handicraft, a sector of activity of The Mauritius Commercial Bank Ltd. which is considered to be lagging behind Indonesia or Madagascar, hence inferring on the bargaining power of local entrepreneurs. In 2011, the artisans had a turnover of USD The Medine Volunteers 15,000 for their craft items. The Medine Volunteers is a group of employees who organise activities with and for the members of NGOs or vulnerable groups of people and help them out in various ways. They have devoted time and resources in 2011 to perform a 100 Good Deeds for Medine’s 100th anniversary. Fondation Medine Horizons 2011 activities include: In 2011, the FMH has made donations to 39 • Sharing of skills: sports coaching, secretarial duties, basic life-skill trainings, IT, projects and actions initiated by NGOs for the agriculture, etc. benefit of the population of Medine’s vicinity, • Organising Social activities: educational outings for students, creativity activities with in the West of the island. children. The main projects sponsored were: • Donations to purchase provisions for the needy, to finance educational camps for • Street-children rehabilitation by SAFIRE (for handicapped, NGOs’ flag day, expensive medical treatments of individuals suffering from the 3rd consecutive year) serious illnesses, school materials to children coming from poor families. • La Chrysalide’s work for women dealing • Fund-raising activities: flea markets and others, to benefit poor households. with drug-addiction. • The Maison Familiale et Rurale de l’Ouest who dispenses alternative schooling to school dropouts teenagers. A total USD 280,000 was donated by FMH. Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 10 Partnerships HIV/AIDS in The Workplace A senior manager of Medine sat on the National Tripartite Steering Committee on HIV/AIDS in the Workplace, under the aegis of the Mauritian Ministry of Labour, Industrial Relations and Employment since its creation in August 2010 and until its dissolution in December 2011. The company was one of the five pilot-companies to run an awareness survey, a sensitisation campaign and the creation of an HIV/AIDS Policy in 2011, under this committee: • We proceeded with an extensive survey among our 1,800 employees on their knowledge of HIV/AIDS. • We ran a sensitisation campaign on the topic, based on the results of the survey, where 25 sessions were held and attended by 1,056 employees. • Medine published its HIV/AIDS Policy in its internal newsletter and on its Intranet, and had 13 human resources persons trained on the issue and its confidential and effective tackling. Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 11 Medine Limited 11th Floor, Medine Mews 4, La Chaussée Street, Port Louis Mauritius UNGC Contact: Contact: Mrs. Sophie Desvaux de Marigny Head of Corporate Sustainability and Communication Email: Email: sophied@medine.com Phone: +230 2116101 Phone: Fax: Fax : +230 2116169 Vers2 Sep12 Medine Communication on Progress 2011 12
