IMI plc Annual RePort 2011 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE CONTENTS FAST TRACK TO NEWS HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Results in brief 1 BUSINESS OVERVIEW At-a-glance 2 Our strategy 4 Fluid technologies 6 Niche leadership 8 Growth drivers 10 Our performance 14 P16 A strong performance with good organic growth and further margin improvement RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS The IMI Way and our business strategy 28 Responsible business priorities 30 BOARD REPORTS Principal risks and uncertainties 34 Board of directors 36 Directors’ report 38 P33 Responsible business: Helping people with learning disabilities become active members of the labour market Chairman’s governance introduction 42 The Board’s corporate governance report 43 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Remuneration report 48 Chairman’s statement 16 Statement of directors’ responsibilities 68 Chief executive’s review 18 Our five platform businesses 20 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditor’s report (Group) 69 Financial review 22 Consolidated income statement 70 Consolidated statement of 71 comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet 72 Consolidated statement of 73 changes in equity Consolidated statement of cash flows 74 Notes to the financial statements 75 Independent auditor’s report (Company) 123 Company balance sheet 124 Company notes to the financial statements 125 Subsidiary undertakings 130 Five year summary 132 Shareholder information 134 General information 135 Index 136 P2 At-a-glance: Where we operate number of locations by business IMI IS A GLOBAL ENGINEERING GROUP FOCUSED ON BUSINESS OVERVIEW THE PRECISE CONTROL AND MOVEMENT OF FLUIDS IN CRITICAL APPLICATIONS. IMI COMPRISES FIVE PLATFORM BUSINESSES WITH GROWING LEADERSHIP POSITIONS IN FOCUSED NICHE MARKETS. IN DECEMBER 2010, IMI GROUP OPERATING REVIEW GAINED ENTRY INTO THE FTSE100 FOR THE FIRST TIME IN ITS HISTORY. 2011 RESULTS IN BRIEF Revenue Adjusted basic earnings per share3 £2,131m +12% 81.5p +23% RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2010 £1,911m 2010 66.3p Segmental operating profit1 Basic earnings per share £374.1m +17% 63.2p -10% 2010 £319.7m 2010 70.4p BOARD REPORTS Adjusted profit before tax2 Total dividend for year £363.4m +19% 30.0p +15% 2010 £304.4m 2010 26.0p Revenue, profit and earnings per share measures quoted Profit before tax above are based on continuing activities. 1 before exceptional items (restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation, the reversal of economic hedge contract gains £301.4m -2% and in 2010 the UK employee benefit curtailment gain) totalling £59.9m (2010: £10.6m) 2 before exceptional items (restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation, financial instruments and in 2010 the UK FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2010 £306.1m employee benefit curtailment gain) totalling £62.0m (2010: £1.7m credit) and including economic hedge contract gains and losses totalling £4.1m (2010: £2.7m) 3 before the after tax cost of exceptional items totalling £57.9m (2010: profit of £0.5m) IMI plc Annual Report 2011 1 Business Overview AT-A-GLANCE IMI plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1966. At 31 December 2011 it had a market value of £2.4bn and shareholders’ funds of £565m. 15,700 employees* provide innovative knowledge-based engineering solutions for market-leading customers around the world. The Company’s headquarters is at Lakeside, Birmingham Business Park, England. The trading activities of the IMI Group are conducted through subsidiary companies. PLATFORM BUSINESSES Segmental revenue Segmental operating profit Revenue by geographical destination SEVERE SERVICE Controlling critical in-plant processes by providing RoW 16% UK 4% superior custom-engineered North severe service valve, America Western 18% Europe actuation and control Emerging 28% solutions. Markets 34% 27% £572m 24% £88.9m FLUID POWER Engineering advantage in motion and fluid RoW 4% UK 8% control applications. North America 23% Western Emerging Europe Markets 48% 17% 36% £767m 40% £150.5m INDOOR CLIMATE Perfecting indoor climate through the provision of North RoW 1% America critical energy-efficient valve 5% UK 2% solutions and related services Emerging Western Markets Europe for water-based heating and 18% 74% cooling systems. 14% £310m 18% £68.2m BEVERAGE DISPENSE Supplying innovative beverage cooling and RoW 3% UK 8% dispense solutions to brand Western North Europe owners and retailers around America 14% 58% the world. Providing complete Emerging Markets beverage and food service 17% parts management solutions. 15% £317m 11% £41.1m MERCHANDISING Providing permanent point of sale solutions and technologies Western UK 11% Europe that enhance retailer and brand RoW 1% 7% Emerging owner profitability by driving North Markets America impulse purchase. 78% 3% 8% £169m 7% £25.4m * As at 31 December 2011, including temporary agency and contractor staff and approximately 200 head office employees. 2 Business overview BUSINESS OVERVIEW Group revenue Segmental operating profit Group revenue by £2,131m £374.1m geographical destination RoW UK 6% Fluid Fluid 7% Controls Controls 77% 82% North America Western Retail Retail 29% Europe Dispense Dispense Emerging 38% 23% 18% Markets 20% Segmental Segmental Operating revenue operating profit margin Factfile GROUP OPERATING REVIEW £m £m % Key brands 572 CCI, BTG, IMI Nuclear, Orton, Truflo Rona, STI, Z&J, THJ 512 Main markets 452 101.4 Fossil and nuclear power generation; oil & gas production; 88.9 combined heat & power (CHP); liquified natural gas (LNG); 78.4 iron & steel; petrochemical and gas processing. 19.8 17.3 15.5 Major operational locations USA, Switzerland, Italy, Sweden, Czech Republic, South Korea, UK, Japan, China, Germany and Belgium. Employees 3,950 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 Key brands Norgren, FAS, Kloehn, Herion, Buschjost, KIP 767 685 Main markets 520 Industrial pneumatic applications; commercial vehicles; 150.5 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS food and beverage; life sciences; rail; energy. 113.7 Major operational locations 19.6 16.6 UK, USA, Germany, Switzerland, Mexico, Czech Republic and China. 32.8 6.3 Employees 6,300 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 Key brands TA Hydronics, Heimeier, Pneumatex, FDI 310 292 296 Main markets 70.3 68.2 Heating and cooling systems for commercial buildings 60.7 and temperature control for residential buildings. 23.8 22.0 Major operational locations 20.8 Sweden, Germany, Switzerland, Poland and USA. Employees 2,000 BOARD REPORTS 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 Key brands Cornelius, 3Wire 315 317 297 Main markets Soft drinks, health and wellness drinks and alcoholic beverage 41.1 cooling, dispense and point of sale equipment for bars, 32.0 restaurants and retail outlets. 13.0 21.1 Major operational locations 10.2 7.1 USA, UK, Germany, Mexico and China. Employees 2,200 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 Key brands Artform, Cannon Equipment, DCI Marketing, Display Technologies 164 169 169 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.3 25.4 Main markets Global brand owners and retail sales outlets. 18.2 15.0 15.0 Major operational locations 11.1 USA and UK. Employees 1,050 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 3 BUSINESS Overview Business OVERVIEW OUR STRATEGY OUR MISSION IMI’s goal is to become one of the world’s leading engineering companies in the global niche markets we serve and to be recognised for our innovation, applications expertise and global service. Postioning ourselves for the future We are seeking to concentrate a higher proportion of our business activities in our ‘sweetspot’ of operation – the area where we create the greatest value for our customers via product differentiation, where we can expect to enjoy clear market leadership, higher margins and greater exposure to long-term macro trends driving global growth. STRATEGIC CONVERGENCE FLUID TECHNOLOGIES NICHE LEADERSHIP Precision flow control in P Market leadership in critical applications: global niches P Valves P Blue chip clients supported by world class P Actuators Key Account Management P Controllers and P Customised solutions positioners delivered through Engineering Advantage P Extensive aftermarket GROWTH DRIVERS P Climate change P Resource scarcity P Urbanisation “Today just over half of IMI’s operations are positioned within the ‘sweetspot’ P Ageing population which is characterised by higher growth, higher margins and greater resilience. Over time we would expect to increase significantly this proportion through disciplined choices around customer selection, new product development and acquisitions.” Martin Lamb, Chief Executive, 1 March 2012 4 Business overview BUSINESS OVERVIEW Customer advantage IMI delivers customer advantage where we can deploy our highly differentiated technologies in targeted market niches where our core competencies in Key Account Management and Engineering Advantage can be leveraged to maximum effect. We are highly focused on customers whose own growth agenda is being driven by key global trends such as climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and an ageing population. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW FLUID TECHNOLOGIES Our highly engineered products provide precise and • Operating parameters: reliable control of fluids and gases, often in critical Operating pressures 0bar to 660bar applications: Operating temperatures -170°C to +1,600°C • Control circuit – valves to impede or isolate flow, Orifice sizes 0.5mm to 3.0m actuators to control the stroke of the valves, and positioners / controllers for feedback and control • Type of fluid – steam, gas, oxygen, air, reagents and water RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS NICHE LEADERSHIP We seek leadership positions in clearly defined global Our people are trained to establish close working niches where our competencies in Key Account relationships with our customers, develop genuine Management and Engineering Advantage can be insight as to the key competitive and business issues leveraged to maximum effect. facing the customer, and to translate that insight into IMI’s key market niches share certain characteristics: innovative and highly bespoke products and solutions which deliver significant and measurable value. • Niche global markets of no more than US$3-4 billion In short, we deploy the very best practices of • Market leading positions, typically with market Key Account Management with technical know-how to share of over 25% BOARD REPORTS deliver real Engineering Advantage for our customers. • Blue-chip customers with a clear appetite for innovative, differentiated and customised solutions • Significant aftermarket GROWTH DRIVERS The global trends shaping our future and providing higher • Urbanisation – building design and mass transit than average growth opportunities for IMI include: infrastructure in the emerging economies • Climate change – solutions for cleaner energy (e.g. • Ageing population – products to support healthier LNG and nuclear), improved energy efficiency and lifestyles and improved quality and longevity of life FINANCIAL STATEMENTS better environmental control • Resource scarcity – process improvement and automation IMI plc Annual Report 2011 5 Business Overview FLUID TECHNOLOGIES OUR KNOW-HOW We deliver Engineering Advantage to our customers through the unique combination of engineering know-how and fluid controls technology. Throughout IMI, we invest in people and techniques to improve market understanding and customer insight. We listen and identify the issues facing our STRATEGIC customers and then, most importantly, we apply our acquired know-how and our engineering CONVERGENCE capabilities to provide bespoke solutions delivering clear and measurable benefits. STEAM, GAS, WATER WATER Zimmermann & Jansen have designed a new energyTA Hydronics have produced the first in-line differential saving Hot Blast Valve, which requires substantially less pressure controller with integrated pilot operation and cooling water. ‘Hot blast’ is compressed air at very adjustable set-point. It is used for heating and cooling high temperatures. The valve is used as the shut-off systems and is particularly effective in situations valve between a stove and a blast furnace, with the experiencing high temperatures and/or pressure drops. flow of the ‘hot blast’ being shut-off by the valve disc. Larger buildings, such as offices or hospitals, have The Hot Blast Valve, which can weigh up to 41,000 kgs, complicated heating and cooling systems and require is manufactured with a refractory lining and special more accurate techniques. To obtain the correct insulation of the body passage, all internal walls and the design flows, TA Hydronics design systems to include disc. Only the metallic sealing seats of the body and disc, balancing valves and differential pressure controllers. which are exposed to the hot blast, are water cooled. Balancing valves allow the measurement of differential pressures which can be used to calculate a flow. Differential pressure controllers control the pressures in the installation, simplify balancing procedures and enable the installation to be more precisely controlled. Platform business: Severe Service Platform business: Indoor Climate Product name: Hot Blast Valve DN 2200 / 2900 L 800 Product name: Differential pressure controller DA516 DN150 Orifice range: 150mm to 3,000mm Water orifice: 150mm Temperature max: 1,600°C Temperature range: -10°C to 150°C Pressure max: 87PSI Differential pressure max: 232PSI From 3m orifice size and 660bar pressure... 6 Business overview BUSINESS OVERVIEW The key to our success is in retaining people and knowledge, and creating a network of experts who can be called upon to engineer solutions specific to our customers’ requirements. Our five platform businesses all have unique ways of engineering advantage; Severe Service have their Valve Doctors, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate have the Norgren University and Hydronic College respectively, whilst Beverage Dispense rely on their industry-recognised experts and Merchandising lead the way with their Retail Science methodology. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW SYRUP, WATER, CO2 AIR, OXYGEN, EXHAUST GAS, REAGENT The Cornelius proportional flow control valve is The FAS Chipsol series valves are miniature solenoid designed to precisely control the ratio of syrup to valves for applications that require low energy water for carbonated or still beverages. consumption, a compact solution and superior The valve technology performs the following key performance. control functions: The Chipsol is a flexible product and is ideal for deployment in applications that need to control • Isolates fluids and actuates flow as required in the application medical micro or pneumatic devices, ranging from respirators and diving equipment, to fragrance • Once actuated, the valve controls the flow of the dispensers, to pick and place distribution machinery. fluid in an open loop by modulating flow area in proportion to the pressure drop across the valve. They are incredibly complex due to their small size, RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS This modulation is achieved by a precision ceramic small stroke and tolerances of less than 0.01mm on piston that slides linearly in a precision ceramic elastomer parts. They are produced using a metal sleeve in response to input pressure changes. injection moulding process, and have a patented, long-life, cartridge design. In doing this, the valve maintains flow accuracy of +/2.5% from set points and helps control key The Chipsol series could be used as either a valve to consumer-centric parameters such as taste and control the media directly, such as the dispense of visual appearance. medical gases or gas dosing manifolds, or as an actuator to the pilot distributor or pressure regulator. BOARD REPORTS Platform business: Beverage Dispense Platform business: Fluid Power Product name: Grappa UFB/1 Product name: FAS Chipsol Water orifice: 3mm to 5mm Syrup orifice: 1mm to 2.5mm Orifice range: 0.5mm to 1.0mm FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Temperature range: 1°C to 41°C Temperature range: 1°C to 50°C Pressure range: 20PSI to 120PSI Pressure range: 1PSI to 115PSI to 0.5mm orifice size and 0bar pressure. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 7 BUSINESS Overview Business OVERVIEW NICHE LEADERSHIP OUR PEOPLE We concentrate on global niche markets where we already hold, or can achieve, a market leadership position and where we can clearly differentiate ourselves from our competitors with end-user insight and application of innovative technology. The disciplines of Key Account Management and STRATEGIC CONVERGENCE MARKET LEADERSHIP in GLOBAL NICHES KEY ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT We are focused on working with industry or World class Key Account Management (KAM) sector leading customers in global niche markets and project management are important who have good exposure to the key global trends disciplines for the effective delivery of bespoke which are driving growth. We currently operate solutions to our customers. We focus on the in around 40 niche markets globally across our key elements of the IMI KAM model, including businesses, where in many cases we benefit from customer / segment selection and end market being market leaders through our innovative drivers, Engineering Advantage through bespoke customer solutions. ideation and innovation, capturing value TA Hydronics have demonstrated their market through pricing and negotiation, and delivering leadership in such niche markets by setting up sustainable results by first class execution. the Hydronic College. Gilbert Gremont, who is Lucy McQuillan is the Key Account Director for responsible for knowledge and training in France, the IMI Group and in this role drives profitable has developed a range of training courses covering growth through best practice approaches to KAM. all aspects of hydronics. The internal training Previously, as the Global Vice President of Yum! ensures continuous improvement and that we Brands Account with Cornelius, Lucy helped to remain leaders within the industry. broaden the offer into new categories of more The external programme allows us to educate profitable beverages directly as a result of the (amongst others) our customers and stakeholders; customer’s need to expand their menu offering. installers, consultants, contractors, commissioners Applying the insights of profitable category and developers. We help them to solve their specific development with the customer’s application, problems in respect of complex indoor comfort such as labour utilisation and speed of service, requirements, whilst addressing global issues such has consistently delivered unique differentiated as energy efficiency. Our seminar programme covers products for both the customer and IMI. a wide range of topics including our core hydronic competencies; pressurisation and water quality, balancing and control, and thermostatic control. Over the last three years more than 160,000 people have participated globally. Gilbert Gremont, Knowledge and Training Manager, Lucy McQuillan, Key Account Director, IMI France, TA Hydronics 8 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Engineering Advantage are central to achieving this aim. IMI is increasing its investment in these two key areas to underpin the Group’s aspirations of accelerating top line growth and delivering further margin improvement. We also target markets where we can provide aftermarket support in the form of service and spares to our customers’ installed product base. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE AFTERMARKET IMI converts industry knowledge and market We have developed an agile service business insight into design-engineered solutions, which that provides maximum flexibility across the creates competitive advantage for our customers. niche markets we serve. Our global footprint We call this Engineering Advantage. is expanding in order to support customer We deliver Engineering Advantage to our demands in the emerging markets. customers through the unique combination Across the Group, many of our businesses of engineering know-how and fluid controls are unique in the industry for our direct sales technology. We focus on solving our customers’ approach and dedicated support for customers problems, enabling them to operate faster, more worldwide. We will continue to find innovative efficiently and more cost effectively. ways to provide even greater aftermarket Mark Sealy, Global Engineering Director for support for our customers. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Norgren’s Commercial Vehicle (CV) Sector, is The North American aftermarket group is responsible for defining product strategy and responsible for supporting approximately 10,000 co-ordinating technology development across the CCI valves installed at roughly 1,000 sites. seven Norgren sites that comprise our international The aftermarket group consists of sales teams, CV business. Increasingly, his team is stepping up engineering support, repair capabilities, a dedicated from delivering components, to developing bespoke cross-functional operations team and a field-service modules and complete systems to OEMs all over support team dedicated to proactively delivering the world, helping them to meet emissions custom aftermarket solutions to our customers. legislation and improve vehicle performance. Recently, a US electricity company turned to CCI Our Engineering Advantage comes from responding for some spare valve parts for a new generation quickly to new opportunities through creative unit. Working together, the aftermarket team solutions, often leveraging proven elements from delivered over 60 parts in just three weeks (normally 12) so that the plant could be commissioned on the BOARD REPORTS different business units. We specialise in precise fluid and motion control products which are fit for designated start-up date. purpose, in the hostile environments on trucks. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Mark Sealy, Director, Commercial Vehicle Sector, Norgren Nengi Krukrubo, Senior Manager, Operations, CCI Steve Martens, Director of North America Aftermarket, CCI 9 Business Overview GROWTH DRIVERS OUR INSIGHTS We have identified a set of mega trends that will impact on our business and markets over the coming years: climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and ageing population. Our products and services are ideally positioned to respond to these key environmental and demographic trends that are shaping the future. Integrating these trends, or growth drivers, into our business strategy has enabled us to identify a set of new product opportunities; meeting the energy challenge will require alternative solutions that rely on highly engineered bespoke CLIMATE CHANGE CASE STUDY: BEVERAGE DISPENSE CORNELIUS HELPS CUSTOMER WITH SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT IMI Company: Cornelius Customer: The Kroger Co. Location: USA Requirement Solution The Kroger Co. is one of the largest US grocery retailers. The Kroger Co. chose Cornelius’ high quality, reliable, Viper Sustainability is an integral part of their business and is Frozen Carbonated Beverage (FCB) machine, which has embedded in the company’s core values and mission. a patented energy saving design resulting in an average A key new concept was introduced in 2010 to increase saving of 25% compared with traditional FCB equipment. revenue, whereby an area at the front of a select number Cornelius applied its expertise to create Viper’s efficient of stores was designated for a convenience-store (C-store) refrigeration design, compressor technology and novel concept, including a retail food service area and fountain adaptive Intelligent Defrost™ feature which allows and frozen beverage dispense sections. maximum uptime, and reduces wear on components. Consequently, The Kroger Co. needed a sustainable frozen Additionally, Cornelius’ experience in valve technology dispenser solution with high performance and reliability, ensures Viper properly mixes the syrup and water to and which was in line with their legacy in sustainability directly reduce the number of refrigeration system cycles leadership, to include in their new C-store outlets. required to keep the product frozen. Viper’s LED lighting provides seven times the life expectancy of fluorescent bulbs which reduces its carbon footprint, and also eliminates waste and disposal fees. The insulating foam is environmentally friendly with zero Global Warming Potential (GWP) and zero Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP). All of Viper’s electronics are compliant with the RoHS directive (Reduction of Hazardous Substances). Viper FCB machine 10 BUSINESS OVERVIEW technology, the development of mega cities will require energy-efficient building solutions, and the development of new transportation networks will require technology that meets stringent legislation. All our platform businesses continue to focus on Engineering Advantage to deliver sustainable solutions STRATEGIC CONVERGENCE whilst also limiting the impact our operations have on local communities and the environment. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESOURCE SCARCITY CASE STUDY: SEVERE SERVICE CCI IMPROVES PERFORMANCE AND REDUCES NOISE LEVELS AT SEA IMI Company: CCI Customer: Statoil Location: Norwegian North Sea Requirement Solution Statoil owns two oil and gas platforms in the Snorre field The CCI Valve Doctors™ recommended a more advanced in the Norwegian North Sea. The Snorre B inlet gas severe service valve to significantly reduce the noise and RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS separator pressure control system is used intermittently vibration. The custom-built 34-stage 100D control valve each month for periods ranging from as little as five boasts a high flow 10” stroke. Offering one of the lowest minutes to as long as five hours. The control valve within outlet energies in the industry, the 100D is capable of the system regulates the transfer of fluid to a buffer tank. achieving noise levels as low as 85 decibels levels If the pressure within the tank rises above a set point, the similar to that heard inside a car. system evacuates the gas. Employing CCI’s patented DRAG® technology, the 100D When the gas separator pressure control system onboard incorporates experience and expertise drawn from over Snorre B began experiencing excessive noise and higher 40 years of preventing the development of high fluid than expected use, Statoil turned to CCI to evaluate the velocities across all valve settings in multiple industries. process and equipment. Referred to as the “organ” by By incorporating multiple disk stacks featuring varying platform employees, the existing valve’s inadequate flow numbers of pressure reducing stages, CCI DRAG® valves control created very high noise levels in excess of 130 offer superior control that improves plant performance, decibels louder than a 747 aeroplane. Additionally, the prevents vibration damage, eliminates excessive noise BOARD REPORTS valve leakage and extensive production losses were and reduces maintenance and operational costs. causing frequent shutdowns. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CCI’s DRAG® technology solution 11 Business Overview GROWTH DRIVERS URBANISATION CASE STUDY: INDOOR CLIMATE INNOVATIVE COOLING SYSTEM SOLUTION CUTS ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY 17% FOR SALVADOR’S NEWEST SHOPPING CENTRE IMI Company: TA Hydronics Customer: Grupo JCPM (Owner) Interplan (HVAC Consultant) Location: Salvador, Bahia, Brazil Requirement Solution The Salvador Norte Shopping Centre in Salvador, Brazil, In the early design phase TA Hydronics supported covers a total area of 107,000m2, and spreads over four the choice of design principles and cooling system levels creating space for 229 shops. technology, and was involved in hydronic calculations From the project outset, energy efficiency through the and component specification until project completion. use of state-of-the-art cooling technology, and a total The required key features were implemented in system solution, were defined as key requirements for TA Hydronics’ system solution using products such as this new shopping complex. Key features of the cooling the Compresso to ensure a well pressurised system, and system included the use of thermal energy, decoupling of the STAD valve to provide accurate hydronic balancing. cooling and dehumidification processes, and the local They not only help to meet the energy efficiency targets, production of cooling energy to avoid energy loss during but also provide the building’s tenants with an accurate transportation. All features are aimed at achieving and controllable room temperature and offer visitors a optimum energy efficiency. comfortable shopping experience. Following successful co-operation on previous projects Salvador Norte Shopping Centre is the first building with both the developer and the cooling system designer, in Brazil to be awarded the “Procel Edifica”, Brazil’s TA Hydronics was involved right from the very beginning. classification scheme to evaluate energy efficiency in buildings, and it received an “A” rating! Compresso precision STAD valve for accurate pressurisation system hydronic balancing 12 BUSINESS OVERVIEW AGEING POPULATION CASE STUDY: FLUID POWER NORGREN SAVES MEDICAL MANUFACTURER TIME AND MONEY WITH NEW INTEGRATED VENTILATOR COMPONENT IMI Company: Norgren Customer: Shenzhen, Mindray Electronic Co. Ltd GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Location: China Requirement Solution Shenzhen Mindray Electronic Co. Ltd is a developer, The customised Engineering Advantage solution was manufacturer and exporter of medical devices for patient developed between the Mindray Research and monitoring, diagnostics and ultrasound imaging systems. Development team and the Norgren Asia Technical They required a pre-assembled regulator to control the Centre (ATC). The Norgren ATC produced a fully inlet gas for a ventilator, which had to meet stringent integrated pneumatic sub-module in a compact size, dimensional requirements and critical performance with Norgren’s cartridge components, including specifications. proportional valves and high precision regulators. The regulator is at the core of the precise control of The Norgren regulator manifold can be installed directly medical level gas for the ventilator, including the inlet into the ventilator it is real plug and play. Each of the pressure control, flow control and pressure monitoring to components, and the fully assembled regulators, are 100% RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS deliver a clean, safe, and stable flow of air and oxygen to pre-tested before they are delivered to the customer. the patient. With the Norgren solution, the ventilator is 15% lighter The unit had to be compatible with both the upstream and 20% smaller, making it much more portable and and downstream pneumatic and electronic circuit of the convenient. This solution also saves approximately 60% ventilator, and make the machine more compact and in assembly time, and 10% in cost, which is allowing power efficient. It also had to be user friendly, and easy Mindray to rapidly supply more ventilators across China, to set up and test. and the world, as the need grows for use with life support systems, due to the world’s ageing population. BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A0907 regulator manifold for ventilator 13 Business Overview OUR PERFORMANCE Business performance is measured against five elements of our strategy, through Groupwide targets and improvement measures. Each business unit of IMI participates in an annual round of planning meetings with the Executive Committee of the Board, during which performance and future plans for that business are reviewed and updated. These business plans are all aligned with the Group business strategy and include specific local, regional and sector targets and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which measure business performance. In addition, individual business reviews take place on a regular basis enabling the Board to review performance against tactical and strategic milestones and most importantly allowing informed decisions to be taken at each level of the organisation. ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH Organic revenue growth excludes the impact of acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange rate movements. The revenues from acquisitions are 6% 5% only included in the current year for the period during which the revenues -16% were also included in the prior period. In 2011, the Group’s revenue grew by 5% on an organic basis reflecting positive progress in most areas of the business despite an uncertain macro-economic environment. 09 10 11 OPERATING MARGINS Operating margins are defined as the In 2011, we made good progress ratio of segmental operating profit as towards these targets with the 17.5% a percentage of segmental revenues. Fluid Controls businesses achieving 16.7% IMI has a strong track record of a margin of 18.7% (2010: 18.3%) improving margins over the last and the Retail Dispense businesses 13.1% decade. In March 2011, we raised a margin of 13.7% (2010: 11.8%). our long-term objective for operating Overall, Group operating margins margins to 20% for each of our rose to 17.5% from 16.7% in 2010. Fluid Controls businesses whilst retaining a 15% target for each of our Retail Dispense businesses. 09 10 11 14 Business overview BUSINESS OVERVIEW ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED Economic value added (EVA) is net derivative liabilities and Severe defined as the segmental operating Service investigation costs). £200.6m profit after tax less a capital charge. The 2011 EVA was £200.6m which is The capital charge is arrived at an increase of 22% over 2010. by applying the Group’s after tax £164.5m weighted average cost of capital of GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 8% to the average invested capital. Invested capital is net assets plus net £97.3m debt and the IAS19 pension deficit (net of deferred tax), excluding exceptional items in the balance sheet (being restructuring provisions, 09 10 11 LOST TIME ACCIDENT RATES The Group takes seriously its 2012 target of 0.22, recognising the RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS responsibility for the safety of all importance of demonstrating this employees, contractors and visitors. higher level of performance on a 0.27 0.25 Our three-day lost time accident (LTA) sustainable basis. rate improved by 28% in 2011 to 0.18 accidents per 100,000 hours 0.18 worked from 0.25 in 2010. This is ahead of our current health and safety target of no more than 0.22 accidents per 100,000 hours worked by 2012. Whilst we are proud of our achievements which enabled this improvement, we are maintaining the 09 10 11 BOARD REPORTS CO2 EMISSIONS Our CO2 emissions in 2011 20 best practice projects to amounted to approximately 92,000 implement across our top 20 tonnes, a fall of 5% on last year energy-using sites. We are now on (2010: 97,000 tonnes). Normalised track to meet our target to reduce against hours worked, our this KPI to no more than 3.2 CO2 3.5 3.6 3.3 performance improved to 3.3 CO2 tonnes/1,000 hours worked by 2012. tonnes/1,000 hours worked (2010: 3.6 CO2 tonnes/1,000 hours worked). This resulted from a range of good FINANCIAL STATEMENTS initiatives across the Group including Project 20:20, where we identified 09 10 11 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 15 Group Operating Review CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT confidence in the future prospects of the Group lead the Board to recommend that the final dividend be increased by 12% to 19.0p. This makes a total dividend for the year of 30.0p, an increase of 15% over last year’s 26.0p. In my first set of results since taking over as Chairman in The IMI Way is our code of responsible business which November, I am pleased to report a strong performance targets the very highest standards of ethical business and by IMI in 2011 with good organic growth and further compliance. The Group has been reinforcing the core values margin improvement. Group revenues grew by 12% on and messages of the IMI Way with regular training since its a reported basis and by 5% on an organic basis, after launch in 2009. In 2011, each of our main businesses held adjusting for recent acquisitions and for exchange rate IMI Way days where, as well as receiving targeted training, movements, reflecting improved trading conditions in employees engaged in a number of worthwhile projects in most of our end markets. Segmental operating profit their local communities. In 2012, we have planned a single increased by 17% and the operating margin improved IMI Way day for the whole Group, encompassing over from 16.7% to 17.5%. Adjusted earnings per share 15,000 employees. increased by 23% to a record 81.5p. I should like to recognise Norman Askew, who retired as These results together with our strong performance on Chairman of the Board on 1 November 2011. Norman led cash conversion and confidence in the future prospects the Board for over six years, during which time IMI made of the Group lead the Board to recommend that the final great progress in its development into a leading global dividend be increased by 12% to 19.0p. This makes a engineering business, with a clear focus on the precise total dividend for the year of 30.0p, an increase of 15% control of fluids in critical applications. I would personally over last year’s 26.0p. like to thank Norman for his major contribution to the Collectively, our three Fluid Controls businesses performed Group and the invaluable help he provided me during the well, with a particularly strong performance by Fluid Power. succession period. Severe Service margins were impacted by an adverse We were pleased to announce in May 2011 that Sean sales mix and some operational challenges associated with Toomes, President of Indoor Climate, had been promoted the move to lower cost facilities. Overall, on an organic to the Board and assumed the important additional basis, Fluid Controls revenues grew by 6% with operating responsibilities for developing IMI’s key account margins increasing to 18.7% from 18.3% last year. management strategy and corporate responsibility agenda. In Retail Dispense, both Beverage Dispense and Since joining the Board I have had the opportunity to visit Merchandising continued to focus on improving the many of IMI’s operations. I have been extremely impressed product mix and the quality of their businesses. by the skills, expertise and energy displayed by my Revenues grew by 3% on an organic basis despite the colleagues across the world and I am grateful for their continued targeted exit from some lower margin product continued efforts and enthusiasm in helping to deliver this lines in the Beverage business. Operating margins have year’s strong results. We continue to invest in our people again benefited from this improving mix, increasing to and have once again this year conducted an employee 13.7% from 11.8% last year. engagement survey to ensure that we continue to provide a 16 Group operating review BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Roberto Quarta Chairman working environment that allows them to contribute to their full potential. BOARD REPORTS IMI is a strong company, with market leading technology in many of its global niche markets. I believe that we are well placed for the future with a clearly defined strategy which should deliver further sustainable margin improvement and long term growth, notably through the acceleration of our new product agenda and increased exposure to the faster growing emerging markets. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Roberto Quarta Chairman 1 March 2012 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 17 Group Operating Review CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 2011 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF GOOD PROGRESS FOR IMI, WITH ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH OF OVER 5%, RECORD OPERATING MARGINS OF 17.5% AND ENCOURAGING DEVELOPMENTS ACROSS MOST AREAS OF THE GROUP. Against a macro-economic background where uncertainty Over time we would expect to increase significantly this increased markedly in the second half, the results reflect proportion through disciplined choices around customer the continued benefits that are being derived from the selection, new product development and acquisitions. fundamental reshaping of the Group over the last decade. To support this objective, each of our platform businesses The consistency of approach has delivered a significant has made an assessment of the current strategic and sustainable improvement in the underlying quality and sweetspot positioning, and has developed a set of plans profitability of the Group. for increasing convergence over the next few years. The macro-economic environment remains uncertain with Growth acceleration limited GDP growth forecast in developed Western economies Against the background of global macro-economic in the medium term and with global growth being propelled uncertainty with limited market growth expected in largely through emerging economies. Within this context Western economies, IMI needs to allocate its resources current trading patterns have nevertheless remained stable as carefully to drive future growth. In particular, we will focus we enter 2012, with no material changes in trends witnessed on three principal areas: over the last few months. We remain committed to our three pronged strategy of • Acceleration of new product activity with the prioritisation of product applications with high exposure gradually increasing each year the proportion of our to favourable mega trends and to emerging markets. business in our favoured end market niches (‘Strategic Convergence’); accelerating our growth through increased • Significant expansion of our emerging markets investment in new products and emerging markets; and presence, through accelerated investment in sales and maintaining a long established upward trend in margins engineering resource in the key targeted territories. through a process of pricing optimisation and year on year • Supplementing our organic initiatives through an active reductions in our manufacturing and supply chain costs. acquisition programme, prioritising businesses with high sweetspot exposure and a strong emerging Strategic convergence markets presence. In this regard we were pleased to During the year we continued to develop our long term announce two Severe Service acquisitions, Remosa thinking around strategic convergence, providing a route SpA and Grupo InterAtiva, in February 2012. These map for gradually increasing the percentage of our revenues businesses significantly strengthen our isolation valve in our sweetspot. For IMI, strategic convergence means capabilities and our emerging market exposure, notably prioritising both organic and acquisition investment in favour in South America. We retain a strong balance sheet of differentiated fluid technologies, applied to global market and have a number of additional acquisition niches where we already have, or can aspire to, a leadership opportunities in the pipeline. position, and which benefit from a heightened exposure to attractive market trends. These trends include climate Margin sustainability change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and an ageing Funding for our increased investment in growth will be met population. We believe these trends are set to be with us for through a continuation of our ongoing initiatives to improve generations, surviving economic cycles and our increasing margins which remains therefore a key focus for us. As we exposure to them will deliver a significantly higher level of highlighted in the interim results we have built up a strong growth over the long term. track record over many years of delivering price and value Today just over half of IMI’s operations are positioned benefits comfortably in excess of any labour cost and within the sweetspot which is characterised by supply chain inflation, the so called “inflation equation”, higher growth, higher margins and greater resilience. irrespective of the macro-economic circumstances. 18 Group operating review BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Martin Lamb Chief Executive Looking forward we expect to continue winning the “inflation Whilst the global macro-economic outlook remains equation” over time through optimising prices, driving down uncertain, we are committed to our well defined plans to BOARD REPORTS supply chain costs and delivering substantial productivity drive strategic convergence, accelerate future growth, gains. In addition, our long term programmes to move more deliver further margin improvement and make greater use manufacturing and procurement to lower cost countries is of our strong balance sheet in delivering value enhancing continuing and we are gaining traction on our initiatives acquisitions. around supplier rationalisation and value engineering. Based on current market conditions we remain optimistic Outlook that the Group will make further progress in 2012. IMI has delivered another strong set of results in 2011 with good growth and record underlying profits, margins and earnings. In light of this performance, and our confidence in the future prospects for the business, we are pleased to propose an increase in the full year dividend of 15%. Martin Lamb Chief Executive FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 March 2012 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 19 Group Operating Review OUR FIVE PLATFORM BUSINESSES FLUID CONTROLS SEVERE SERVICE FLUID POWER INDOOR CLIMATE Severe Service significantly strengthen our isolation across the wider Norgren global Our Severe Service business delivered valve capabilities and our emerging business. North America, in particular, revenue growth of 27% including the market exposure. showed strong growth with a number results of Zimmermann & Jansen (Z&J) The strong order book at the year-end of initiatives to support the aftermarket and TH Jansen (THJ) since acquisition. gives us confidence that the business including a new US webstore. Organic revenue increased 2% for the will demonstrate good revenue growth The business has continued to focus on full year, reflecting a stronger second in 2012. Margins in the first half of margin improvement with ongoing half performance with organic growth 2012 are expected to be at similar programmes to transfer more of 5%. levels to the second half of 2011. manufacturing to low cost sites in Shipments of valves continued to be Margins should improve in the second China, the Czech Republic and Mexico, strong into liquefied natural gas (LNG) half with higher new valve margins to optimise pricing, to drive new applications, offsetting the weaker and operational improvements at our product development and to deliver performance in the Fossil Power facility in Brno. further savings from value engineering sector resulting from the softer order and supplier rationalisation. This has Fluid Power intake in the second half of 2010, and resulted in a further improvement in Fluid Power continued to perform margins with full year margins of 19.6% in Nuclear, where activity levels have strongly with end markets holding and margins in the second half reaching been affected since the incident in up well despite macro-economic our new 20% objective for the first time. Japan in March 2011. uncertainty increasing as the year Total order intake for Severe Service We have again surveyed our key progressed. Whilst organic growth in was up 2% for the year and the order customers across all our markets to revenues slowed to 6% in the second book ended the year 16% higher than gauge their views on the demand half of the year against tougher 2010 at the start of the year as order intake outlook for 2012. Within the comparators, organic growth for the once again outpaced shipments. As Commercial Vehicle sector we expect full year was 11%. previously indicated, margins were to see further weakening in Europe, We have continued to see good partially offset by improved demand in impacted by a combination of lower momentum in our key global sector North America. In Fluid Power markets new valve margins, notably in the business, which focuses on bespoke more generally, demand in Europe Nuclear sector, a less favourable solutions for key original equipment would appear to have stabilised at aftermarket mix and higher operational manufacturer (OEM) customers in levels similar to last year whilst costs in our new facility in Brno. global niche markets. This grew at customers are indicating reasonable Overall margins for the year were 14% in the full year, compared to growth in North America and good 15.5% compared to 17.3% in 2010. 9% for the rest of the Fluid Power growth in Asia Pacific. Based on this Z&J performed well with both order business. Of the five key global and current demand patterns we intake and shipments showing good sectors Commercial Vehicles, Energy expect the business to show some growth for the full year. We were and Rail grew strongly up 31%, growth in 2012 with the potential for pleased to announce the acquisition 14% and 9% respectively with Life further progress on margins. of THJ on 17 October 2011 for an Sciences and Food & Beverage enterprise value of £15.0m. THJ is broadly unchanged. Overall our Indoor Climate highly complementary to Z&J and will targeted sectors now represent 43% Indoor Climate revenues were up 2% significantly enhance Z&J’s capabilities of total Fluid Power revenues. on an organic basis for the full year as a leading global provider of custom with good growth in the first half Our internet, phone and catalogue engineered valve, actuation and offset by a weaker second half based aftermarket solution, Norgren control solutions for critical in-plant performance, which was impacted by Express, continued to perform well, up processes in the Iron & Steel sector. wholesaler destocking and warmer nearly 10% globally, as we leveraged The acquisitions of Remosa SpA and weather across Europe during the the proven business model in Europe Grupo InterAtiva in February 2012 important autumn heating season. 20 Group operating review BUSINESS OVERVIEW RETAIL DISPENSE GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BEVERAGE DISPENSE MERCHANDISING The new construction market in growing the business in emerging European markets are likely to remain Europe remained very subdued and markets and on new product subdued in 2012. There are a number performance continued to be development. The ongoing drive for of major new product development underpinned by good refurbishment improved energy efficiency positions us opportunities which have the potential, activity levels. Overall, refurbishment well for accelerating growth over time. in time, to both accelerate our growth activity represented more than two and further enhance our margins. Beverage Dispense thirds of sales in the year, reflecting the Beverage Dispense continued to Merchandising drive to improve energy efficiency within existing buildings to comply with perform well during the year with Overall organic growth for the year RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ever more stringent legislation. overall organic revenue growth of 3% was 3%. As expected, after strong on 2010. We continued to exit a growth in the first half, the second half In line with IMI’s aim to accelerate future number of older, more commoditised, was lower mainly due to the large growth, we increased investment in a lower margin product lines which automotive project that shipped in the number of key areas during the year. accounted for over 4% of revenue second half of 2010. During the year We continued to invest in educating the indicating an underlying organic we saw good growth in our cosmetics market to help drive demand for our growth of around 7% for the full year. business and also won a number of energy efficient products and solutions The strongest markets were in the major cosmetics contracts in Europe with around 83,000 customers attending Americas where revenues grew by which will ship over the next two to one of our seminars during the year with 10%. This helped to offset more three years. Our food and beverage particular focus on North America, challenging market conditions in business also performed well and Germany and China. This is an increase Europe and in Asia Pacific, where we the automotive sector, which whilst of 25% on 2010. We also invested in continued to see lower levels of capital modestly down reflecting the a number of centres designed to investment by the major brand owners, aforementioned large contract, demonstrate hydronic control to our particularly in China. continues to show signs of customers and recruited 50 more BOARD REPORTS improvement with dealers once again hydronic sales engineers. During the We remain focused on improving the investing in their showrooms. year we have also made good progress quality of the product mix in the in developing our new range of business, accelerating growth of During the year we opened the InVision balancing and control valves which will higher margin new products for retail science laboratory in Milwaukee, expand our overall market opportunity. dispensing healthier and indulgence US. This enables us to demonstrate to beverages such as smoothies, water, customers how we can deliver a sales Operating margins in the second half juice and frozen beverages whilst uplift of their most profitable products of 23.8% were broadly in line with the continuing the product exits noted in a state of the art facility using the underlying margins achieved in the above. This continued focus delivered latest immersive 3D technology. A second half of the prior year. Full year a 28% increase in operating profit to number of customers have visited the margins were 22.0%, down from the £41.1m and resulted in another strong site, feedback to date has been very 23.8% achieved in 2010. We were uplift in returns with an overall positive and new product opportunities successful in recovering higher input operating margin for the year of 13.0% have emerged as a result. costs and offsetting the impact of exchange rate movements on (2010: 10.2%). It is expected that Operating margins were sustained at last our businesses in Sweden and margins will continue to improve year’s record levels. Whilst 2012 is likely FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Switzerland which affected the first in 2012 based on new product to be a year of further consolidation with half margin performance. contributions, pricing optimisation, revenues and margins unchanged from cost management initiatives and 2011, the Group continues to focus Underlying new construction markets in further low margin product exits. on improving the overall quality of the Europe are expected to remain weak in Whilst North America continues to business by targeting higher margin 2012 and we are continuing to focus show signs of some improvement, project opportunities. our efforts on refurbishment activity, IMI plc Annual Report 2011 21 Group Operating Review FINANCIAL REVIEW The Group’s segmental operating profit margin was 17.5%, compared to 16.7% in 2010. In the traditionally stronger second half, the Group delivered an operating margin of 18.0% (2010 H2: 17.6%). The segmental operating profit was up 17.0% at £374.1m (2010: £319.7m). With effect from 1 January 2011, the Group has and sells isolation valves for the Iron & Steel industry from implemented the amendments to IAS24 ‘Related Party its manufacturing facility near Saarbrücken in Germany. Disclosures’, IAS32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ The fair value of the net assets acquired was £7.7m, and IFRIC14 ‘IAS19-The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, resulting in goodwill of £1.3m. The net assets comprised Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction’. customer relationships of £6.4m, an order book of £1.1m, The amendments do not have a material impact on the property, plant and equipment of £2.9m, working capital financial statements. Following the finalisation of the balances of £3.3m (including trade and other receivables of goodwill relating to the Zimmermann and Jansen (Z&J) £3.7m) less £6.0m of net debt and deferred tax liabilities. acquisition on 31 December 2010, the prior period balance In 2011 the Group’s revenues were up 12% on a reported sheet has been restated and full details of this restatement basis. Excluding a favourable exchange impact of £19m are included in the notes to the consolidated financial and the contribution from acquisitions, organic sales statements. The cash flow statement has also been growth was 5%. The following review of our business restated to show settlement of currency derivatives areas for 2011 compares the performance of our hedging balance sheet as an investing activity. This was operations as reported under IFRS8: ‘Operating previously recognised as a currency fluctuation. Segments’ with 2010. In the below analysis, revenue In all other respects, these financial statements have been growth has been stated on a constant currency basis. prepared on a consistent basis using the accounting In Fluid Controls, excluding both Z&J’s first year policies set out in the IMI Annual Report and financial contribution and THJ’s contribution since its acquisition, statements for the year ended 31 December 2010. Severe Service revenues returned to growth in the second On 17 February 2012, the Group acquired Grupo InterAtiva half to increase by 2% in the year, with strong shipments (InterAtiva), a Brazilian isolation valve business located in in LNG offsetting the effects of a lower brought forward Sorocaba, near Sao Paolo, from its founding partners order book in Fossil Power and depressed demand in the for an initial cash consideration of £22m and contingent Nuclear market. As expected, margins fell to 15.5% for consideration up to a maximum of £21.2m to be paid the full year (2010: 17.3%) principally due to the adverse based on its performance over the next three years. mix variance on lower volume new valve shipments and The consideration is being funded out of IMI’s existing lower after-market activity. Z&J’s contribution to the resources and banking facilities. In the 2011 calendar year, Group result was in line with expectations and it finished InterAtiva’s unaudited sales were £12m and underlying the year strongly. EBITDA was £3m. All of the 2011 sales were in the Fluid Power continued to perform strongly in 2011, growing fast-growing South American markets. at 11% for the year reflecting a continuing improvement in On 16 February 2012, the Group acquired Remosa SpA its end markets with particularly strong growth from the and related companies (collectively Remosa), a leading Commercial Vehicle, Rail and Energy sectors. The key engineering business specialising in valves and related global sectors now represent 43% (2010: 41%) of Fluid flow control products for severe applications, primarily Power revenues. Operating margins continued to show in the petrochemical market, for an enterprise value of strong improvement at 19.6% for the year compared to approximately £84.7m (€100m), being cash consideration 16.6% in 2010 due to the underlying quality of the business of £69.8m (€82.4m) and debt assumed of approximately and its impetus in improving operational efficiencies, moving £14.9m (€17.6m). The consideration was funded out of to lower cost manufacturing locations and securing IMI’s existing resources and banking facilities. The main procurement benefits. Remosa manufacturing facility is located in Sardinia. In the The Indoor Climate business grew by 2% in the year as 2011 calendar year, Remosa’s unaudited sales were a result of strong levels of refurbishment activity more £40.7m (€48m) and underlying EBITDA was £6.8m (€8m). than offsetting subdued demand for new commercial On 17 October 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the construction builds and the strength of its customer share capital of TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH (THJ) for relationships. Operating margins were 22.0% compared an enterprise value of £12.8m, net of £2.2m due from to 23.8%, partially driven by adverse transactional the vendor, which is subject to agreement through the exchange rates. completion accounts process. THJ designs, manufactures 22 Group operating review BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Douglas Hurt Finance Director In Retail Dispense, the Beverage Dispense business principally reflecting movements in exchange rates during continued to recover and posted 3% growth in spite of the the year on forward foreign exchange contracts. continuing impact of the exit of lower margin product lines. Profit from continuing operations before tax and exceptional These product lines accounted for 4% of 2010 revenue items was up 19% at £363.4m (2010: £304.4m). BOARD REPORTS indicating an underlying growth rate for the year of Restructuring costs in the year were £23.5m (2010: £16.0m) closer to 7%. Operating margins improved to 13.0% as the Group continued to seek operational efficiencies and (2010: 10.2%) for the year helped by the favourable mix move more activity to lower cost manufacturing locations. and further improvement in operational efficiencies. Of this amount the largest costs were in the Severe Service In Merchandising, sales growth was 3% for the year (£11.9m) and Fluid Power (£5.5m) businesses and principally following a strong first half, particularly in the automotive relate to the costs of relocating manufacturing activities to and beverage sectors. Operating margins were held at low cost manufacturing locations and other value chain 15.0% (2010: 15.0%) in spite of the prior year benefiting improvements. The Group expects to continue to incur from a property disposal and insurance claim which restructuring costs in 2012 of approximately £20m as part improved the 2010 margin by one percentage point. of this ongoing initiative. The Group’s segmental operating profit margin was 17.5%, Acquired intangible amortisation increased to £32.3m compared to 16.7% in 2010. In the traditionally stronger (2010: £7.0m) following the acquisition of Z&J in 2010. second half, the Group delivered an operating margin of The Z&J order book is now fully amortised, which will 18.0% (2010 H2: 17.6%). The segmental operating profit reduce the 2012 charge, but the charge will increase was up 17.0% at £374.1m (2010: £319.7m). due to the amortisation of THJ, Remosa and InterAtiva FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Interest costs on net debt of £16.9m (2010: £15.3m) were intangible assets. covered 23 times (2010: 24 times) by earnings before Profit before tax from continuing operations was £301.4m interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment of (2010: £306.1m). £391.7m (2010: £369.2m). A loss arose on the revaluation of financial instruments and derivatives under IAS39 of £2.1m (2010: gain of £12.3m) IMI plc Annual Report 2011 23 Group Operating Review FINANCIAL REVIEW A summary of the major changes in revenue and profit Half year analysis over each six month period compared to the prior period The comparison for the first and second halves of the year is as follows: is as follows: Revenue PBTE* PBT Change 2011 2010 £m £m £m % £m £m First half Revenue 2010 925 136.4 133.5 First half +12 1,032 925 Effects of currency translation (2) 2.0 2.0 Second half +11 1,099 986 Acquisitions 39 6.9 6.9 +12 2,131 1,911 Organic growth 71 21.9 21.9 Net interest cost 0.1 0.1 Segmental operating profit Other financing items 4.0 4.0 First half +21 176.4 145.6 Financial instruments excluding Second half +14 197.7 174.1 economic hedge +17 374.1 319.7 contract gains and losses (3.7) Restructuring costs (6.6) PBTE* Acquired intangible amortisation (13.8) First half +26 171.3 136.4 Reversal of economic hedge Second half +14 192.1 168.0 contract gains and losses (1) +19 363.4 304.4 2011 1,032 171.3 144.3 Profit before tax Second half First half +8 144.3 133.5 2010 986 168.0 172.6 Second half -9 157.1 172.6 Effects of currency translation 21 4.1 4.1 -2 301.4 306.1 Acquisitions 57 11.7 11.7 Restructuring costs Organic growth 32 7.8 7.8 First half (9.9) (3.3) Net interest cost (1.7) (1.7) Second half (13.6) (12.7) Other financing items 2.2 2.2 Financial instruments excluding (23.5) (16.0) economic hedge Employee benefit curtailment contract gains and losses (12.1) UK scheme Restructuring costs (0.9) Second half 15.1 Employee benefit curtailment UK Scheme (15.1) 15.1 Acquired intangible amortisation (11.5) Acquired intangible amortisation Reversal of economic hedge and impairment contract gains and losses 3 First half (17.4) (3.6) 2011 1,099 192.1 157.1 Second half (14.9) (3.4) Year 2,131 363.4 301.4 (32.3) (7.0) Financial instruments excluding * Profit before tax and exceptional items. economic hedge contract gains and losses First half 0.3 4.0 Second half (6.5) 5.6 (6.2) 9.6 * Profit before tax and exceptional items. 24 Group operating review BUSINESS OVERVIEW Taxation £153m (2010: £200m). The cash outflow on acquisitions After the tax charge for the year of £97.7m (2010: £92.5m), of £8.9m included a receipt of £3.6m in respect of the the profit from continuing operations after tax was £203.7m finalisation of the Z&J acquisition and £12.5m for THJ, (2010: £213.6m). The effective tax rate for the Group of which £2.2m is subject to repayment through the before exceptional items reduced to 28% (2010: 30%) completion process. Net debt of £2.5m was also taken on during the year as a result of business re-organisations, as part of the acquisition. Dividends paid to shareholders together with a strong focus on global tax incentives and totalled £89m (2010: £71m) and there was a net cash tax compliance management. These commercial initiatives outflow of £7m in respect of shares purchased and issued are expected to continue to improve the Group’s taxation (2010: £28m). The net cash flow was £44m (2010: £27m) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW profile. In addition, exceptional tax relief of £15.1m and which reduced net debt to £108m (2010: £145m). exceptional tax charges of £11.0m, netting to a tax credit of £4.1m (2010: £1.2m charge), arose in connection with business restructuring and other exceptional costs. Taxes Restated paid in the year of £90.9m (2010: £56.3m) have increased 2011 2010 due to the significant growth in profits in the previous year, £m £m but remain below the level of the tax charge. EBITDA* from continuing operations 391.7 369.2 Working capital requirements (13.0) 32.2 Discontinued operations Capital expenditure (including There were no operations that became classified as development expenditure) (58.9) (50.8) discontinued during 2011. In 2010 income of £12.8m was Other (13.0) (15.8) recognised in respect of discontinued operations, being a £5.4m partial rebate of a fine originally imposed on a Operating cash flow** 306.8 334.8 business in 2005, which the Group disposed of in 2002 Tax paid (90.9) (56.3) and £7.4m deferred contingent consideration received in Interest/derivatives (8.3) (14.2) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS respect of the Polypipe disposal in 2005. Operating cash flow after Earnings per share (EPS) interest and tax 207.6 264.3 Basic EPS reduced 10.2% to 63.2p (2010: 70.4p) and diluted EPS was 62.1p (2010: 69.4p). The Board considers Severe Service investigation costs that a more meaningful indication of the underlying and fine (2.1) (4.3) performance of the Group is provided by earnings from Additional pension scheme funding (52.9) (65.4) continuing operations before charging/(crediting) Refund of EU fine 5.4 exceptional items after tax. Details of this calculation are Free cash flow before given in note 9 to the Group financial statements. On this corporate activity 152.6 200.0 basis the adjusted EPS from continuing operations was 81.5p, an increase of 23% over last year’s 66.3p. Acquisitions (including non-controlling interests) (8.9) (129.8) Cash flow Polypipe earnout recovery 7.4 The Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows is Dividends paid to equity shareholders (88.8) (70.9) shown on page 74. The change in net debt is summarised Dividends paid to non-controlling BOARD REPORTS in the table opposite. interests (0.5) The operating cash flow from continuing operations was Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) £307m (2010: £335m). This represents a conversion rate Net purchase of shares (6.6) (27.9) of segmental operating profit after restructuring costs into Investment in pension partnership by operating cash flow of 88% (2010: 110%). Cash spent on UK Pension Fund 48.6 property, plant and equipment and other non-acquired Net cash flow (excluding debt intangibles in the year was £59m (2010: £51m) which was repaid/drawndown) 43.9 26.9 equivalent to 1.2 times (2010: 1.0 times) depreciation and amortisation thereon. Expenditure on research and Opening net debt (145.4) (172.4) development in the year was £43m (2010: £42m). Of this Net debt acquired (2.5) amount development costs capitalised in the year were Foreign exchange translation (4.2) 0.1 £4m (2010: £5m). Closing net debt (108.2) (145.4) After payment of interest and tax, the free cash flow generated from operations was £208m (2010: £264m). * Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The additional pension contributions of £53m comprised and impairment. £17m in accordance with the repayment plan agreed ** Operating cash flow is the cash generated from the following the 2008 actuarial valuation of the UK Fund operations shown in the consolidated statement of cash and an additional contribution of £36m agreed following flows less cash spent acquiring property, plant and completion of the 2011 actuarial valuation. After Severe equipment, other non-acquired intangible assets and Service investigation costs (and in 2010 the refund of investments; plus cash received from the sale of property, plant and equipment and the sale of investments. the EU fine) free cash flow before corporate activity was IMI plc Annual Report 2011 25 Group Operating Review FINANCIAL REVIEW Balance sheet arrangements and has, therefore, continued to undertake a Net debt at the year end was £108m compared to £145m number of key initiatives to manage this risk, including the at the end of the previous year. The year end net debt to closure of one scheme to new entrants and one to future EBITDA ratio was 0.3 times (2010: 0.4 times). accrual. In addition, the Group has settled four pension arrangements, two of which were in Japan (replacing the At the end of 2011 the US loan notes totalled £255m defined benefit plans with a defined contribution scheme) (2010: £252m), with a weighted average maturity of 5.8 resulting in a gain of £1.5m. years (2010: 6.8 years) and other loans totalled £1m (2010: £16m). Total committed bank loan facilities available to the The net liability for defined benefit obligations at Group at the year end were £250m (2010: £226m) of which 31 December 2011 was £204m compared to £199m at the £nil (2010: £13m) was drawn. end of 2010. The increase principally arose from the use of a lower discount rate as a result of the reduction in Intangible assets corporate bond yields. The impact of this was offset by The value of the Group’s intangible assets decreased to our adoption of a lower long-term inflation assumption, our £497m at 31 December 2011 (2010: £519m) because the liability management initiatives and cash contributions. amortisation of acquired intangibles (particularly the Z&J The IMI Pension Fund (the Fund) in the UK is the largest order book) exceeded the acquired intangibles and goodwill employee benefit obligation within the Group. The Fund recognised on the THJ acquisition. The amortisation charge was closed to new entrants at the end of 2005 and to will reduce in 2012 as a consequence of the high first year future accrual on 31 December 2010. Also in 2010, the charge on the Z&J acquisition in 2011, but will increase due Group made a contribution of £48.6m to the Fund which to the impact of the THJ, Remosa and InterAtiva acquisitions. was invested into a partnership as described in the 2010 Property, plant and equipment Annual Report. The net book value of the Group’s investment in property, A payment of £16.8m was made to the Fund in July 2011. plant and equipment at 31 December 2011 was £248m The latest actuarial valuation of the Fund as at 31 March (2010: £241m). The increase arose because capital 2011 has now been completed. This valuation showed a expenditures of £52m more than offset depreciation and funding deficit at 31 March 2011 of £120m. A revised the reversal of impairments of £41m whilst exchange recovery plan has been agreed with the Fund Trustee and differences reduced the balance by £4m. as a result a contribution of £36.1m was paid in December 2011. Thereafter contributions will revert to the previously Shareholders’ equity agreed annual payments of £16.8m until 2016 or full Shareholders’ equity at the end of December was £565m, funding if sooner. The next triennial valuation of the Fund an increase of £39m since the end of 2010, which includes will be conducted as at 31 March 2014. the profit attributable to the shareholders for the year of During the year the Group offered certain members the £200m, less an after-tax actuarial loss on the defined opportunity to participate in an Enhanced Transfer Value benefit pension plans of £69m and the 2010 final and 2011 exercise, which was finalised as at 31 December 2011. interim dividends totalling £89m. This exercise resulted in enhanced benefits for the Share buybacks members but a reduction in the liability of £11.7m which No shares were repurchased by the Company during the after accrual for the payment of the enhancements and year. 0.8m (2010: 3.6m) shares costing £8.0m (2010: national insurance resulted in a £2.1m gain in the 2011 £29.5m) were purchased by the IMI Employee Benefit Trust income statement. for potential use in relation to employee share schemes. The Group continues to explore various options with the Trustee to reduce further the funding and investment risk Dividends in respect of the Fund and a similar Pensions Increase The Board has recommended a final dividend in respect of Exchange will be finalised early in 2012. 2011 of 19.0p per share, an increase of 12% over last The Group will also continue its programme of closing year’s level. This makes a total dividend for the year of overseas defined benefit plans where they are neither 30.0p (2010: 26.0p). The cost of the final dividend is mandatory nor an operational necessity. expected to be £60m, giving a total dividend cost of £95m in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011. Dividend Treasury policy cover based on adjusted earnings is 2.7 times. IMI’s centralised Treasury function provides treasury Pensions services to Group companies including funding liquidity, credit, foreign exchange, interest rate and base metal The Group has 75 (2010: 79) defined benefit obligations in commodity management. It ensures that the Group operation as at 31 December 2011. It recognises there is a operates within Board-approved guidelines in order to funding and investment risk inherent within defined benefit 26 Group operating review BUSINESS OVERVIEW minimise the major financial risks and provide a stable Going concern financial base. The use of financial instruments and The Group’s business activities, together with the factors derivatives is permitted where the effect is to minimise likely to affect its future development, performance and risk to the Group. Compliance with approved policies position are set out in the Business Overview and the is monitored through a control and reporting system. Group Operating Review on pages 4 to 21. The financial There have been no changes in the year or since the position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and year-end to the major financial risks to the Group or the borrowing facilities are described in this Financial Review. way in which they are managed. In addition, note 18 to the financial statements includes GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Foreign exchange and interest rate risk the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management Further information on how the Group manages its objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging exposure to these financial risks is shown in note 18 to the activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. financial statements. The translation impact on the 2011 Note 19 to the financial statements addresses the segmental operating profit was an improvement of £6.4m. management of the funding risks of the Group’s employee The most important foreign currencies for the Group benefit obligations. remain the Euro and the US Dollar and the relevant rates of exchange were: The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing relationships with a number of Average At 31 December customers, suppliers and funding providers across different geographic areas and industries. The Group’s 2011 2010 2011 2010 forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably Euro 1.15 1.17 1.20 1.17 possible changes in trading performance, show that the RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS US Dollar 1.60 1.54 1.55 1.57 Group is able to operate within the level of its current bank facilities without needing to renew facilities expiring If the exchange rates as at 28 February 2012 of US$1.59 before March 2013. As a consequence, the directors and €1.18 had been applied to our 2011 results, it is believe that the Group is well-placed to manage its estimated that revenue and segmental operating profit business risks successfully despite the uncertainties would both have been 1% lower. inherent in the current economic outlook. Additionally, as part of the Group’s normal ongoing funding review, Economic value added the Group has received indicative offers of additional Economic value added (EVA) is defined as the segmental funding facilities and has signed a new £25m facility operating profit after tax less a capital charge. The capital since the year-end. charge is arrived at by applying the after tax weighted After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable average cost of capital to the average invested capital. expectation that the Company and the Group have Invested capital is defined as net assets plus net debt and adequate resources to continue in operational existence the IAS19 pension deficit (net of deferred tax), excluding BOARD REPORTS for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to exceptional items in the balance sheet (being restructuring adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual provisions, net derivative liabilities and Severe Service Report and financial statements. investigation costs). For 2011 the segmental operating profit was £374.1m and the Net Operating Profit after Tax Share price and shareholder return (NOPAT) was £269.4m. The Group’s invested capital at The share price at 31 December 2011 was 760p the end of 2011 was £880.9m comprising £772.7m of (2010: 945p), a decrease of 20% over the year. net assets excluding exceptional items and £108.2m of Based on the year-end share price, the proposed total net debt. The average invested capital was £860.3m. dividend of 30.0p represents a yield of 3.9%. Applying the 2011 WACC of 8.0% to the average invested capital gives a charge of £68.8m. The EVA in 2011 was £200.6m, representing an increase of 22% over the 2010 EVA of £164.5m. EVA has been calculated on a consistent basis with 2010. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Douglas Hurt Finance Director 1 March 2012 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 27 Responsible Business Responsible Business THE IMI WAY It is our desire to become the most admired and innovative engineering solutions business of our size anywhere in the world, and we believe that this admiration comes not only from great products and services but also from being a responsible business. Our commitment to responsible business starts with the IMI Way, which sets out our core values. Whenever you meet an IMI person you will find someone To support this commitment, IMI continues to be a signatory who: to the UN Global Compact, which establishes standards for human rights, labour practices and anti-corruption. • pursues excellence and delivers results Our continued inclusion in both the FTSE4Good and Dow • innovates and provides value to our customers Jones Sustainability Europe indices is strong evidence • acts with integrity of our responsible business progress and continued As a reflection of these values, we take our responsibilities commitment. to the environment and the communities in which we All of our businesses are required to have their own operate very seriously. We put particular emphasis responsible business objectives, which are fully aligned to on ensuring that our management of people, social, the Group’s four responsible business priorities. These environmental and economic issues is aligned and key priorities are reviewed annually to ensure they remain integrated with the overall management of the business. relevant and appropriate, whilst the performance of our We strongly believe that high standards of responsibility businesses is assessed through an annual audit, and impact positively on profitability, returns to shareholders, quarterly reviews where best practice ideas are shared. reputation and growth. All of our employees receive annual IMI Way face-to-face training. Responsible Business priorities – Focusing on excellence The IMI Way is a driver for responsible growth and directly supports our responsible business priorities: • Health and safety • Supporting our customers’ responsible business priorities • Supply chain risk management • Energy efficiency and carbon management During 2011, we trained 436 IMI Way trainers to deliver face-to-face training to all our employees worldwide. 28 Responsible business BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY The IMI Way is part of our roadmap to success, guiding our decision making and our ability to bring about strategic convergence. Our values underpin our responsible business priorities and we are focused GROUP OPERATING REVIEW not just on what we achieve, but on how we achieve it. Health and safety promotes a strong culture to protect our people, the environment, adjacent communities and other stakeholders. In 2011, we continued to make good progress in our health and safety performance with a 28% improvement in our key lost time accident measure. Supporting our customers’ responsible business priorities is integral to our Key Account Management FLUID TECHNOLOGIES NICHE LEADERSHIP and to delivering Engineering Advantage. We place Precision flow control in P Market leadership in critical applications: global niches significant emphasis on helping our customers P Valves P Blue chip clients meet their own responsible business commitments supported by world class P Actuators Key Account Management RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS recognising the opportunities for sustainability and P Controllers and P Customised solutions positioners delivered through developing our respective businesses. Engineering Advantage Supply chain risk management is fundamental as P Extensive aftermarket we work in partnership with suppliers to develop our Engineering Advantage. IMI’s manufacturing plants in emerging economies such as Mexico, China, GROWTH DRIVERS the Czech Republic and India have all been developed P Climate change with full attention to health, safety and environmental risks, P Resource scarcity energy efficiency, and lean manufacturing techniques. P Urbanisation Energy efficiency and carbon management supports P Ageing population our growth drivers of climate change, resource scarcity and urbanisation and is key to delivering responsible solutions. Integral to this is managing our own facilities BOARD REPORTS and we have various programmes in place to reduce energy consumption and normalised CO2 emissions across our locations around the world. DOING BUSINESS THE IMI WAY IS THE RIGHT WAY IMI is pleased to report that it is the first company in the world to be accredited by Investing in Integrity for its commitment to acting with integrity at all times. The accreditation process was an FINANCIAL STATEMENTS independent audit process which involved reviewing our policies and procedures, face-to-face interviews with many senior leaders of the worldwide businesses and extensive surveys of our employees in all of our key territories. The accreditation is a collaboration between the Institute of Business Ethics and the Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 29 Responsible Business Responsible Business HEALTH AND SAFETY / ENERGY EFFICIENCY Health and safety Energy efficiency and carbon management We promote a strong health and safety culture to minimise IMI has an ongoing commitment to reduce its CO2 risk for our people, the enviroment, adjacent communities emissions and become more energy efficient in both our and other stakeholders. During 2011, we worked hard products and processes. This has both environmental and at building on the good performance of recent years. cost saving benefits and in 2011 we launched a major new We now have 50 full-time health, safety and environmental initiatve called Project 20:20. This project involves our 20 professionals across the Group, up 11% on 2010. We largest energy-using sites, which account for more than also increased capital expenditure in this critical area. 70% of our energy consumption. The aim of the project is Our overall >3 day lost time accident rates per 100,000 to identify 20 best practice projects to implement across hours worked have fallen by over 50% since 2008 and in IMI and to push for 20% reduction in normalised CO2 2011 a further improvement of 28% was achieved. This emissions at these key sites. The project has involved an performance demonstrates the continued clear focus and intensive programme of energy surveys, best practice commitment at all levels across the Group on health and sharing, regular conference calls and tracking project safety matters. implementation. During 2011, we have seen an 8% reduction in our key carbon usage indicator to 3.3 CO2 tonnes per 1,000 hours LOST TIME ACCIDENT RATES (>3 DAYS) worked. Our target by the end of 2012 is 3.2 and as such we are now moving in the right direction. Undoubtedly, the milder winter weather in 2011 helped, but the 0.27 0.25 implementation of our energy efficiency measures has had a strong impact and will continue to do so into 2012 and beyond. 0.18 CO2 EMISSIONS 3.5 3.6 3.3 09 10 11 Whilst we are extremely proud of our achievements which enabled this improvement, we are maintaining the 2012 target of 0.22, recognising the importance of demonstrating this higher level of performance on a sustainable basis. 09 10 11 In achieving these results, we focused very strongly on communication of a positive approach to health and safety across IMI. This includes our twin initiatives ‘Safety Alerts’ and ‘Safety Stand-downs’. The ‘Safety Alerts’ aim to document lessons learned from accidents to prevent other incidents across IMI and ‘Safety Stand-downs’ are site-focused briefings on the root causes and lessons learned from accidents. 30 Responsible business BUSINESS OVERVIEW OUR CUSTOMERS’ RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRIORITIES Supporting our customers’ responsible business priorities is integral to our continued success and in particular to our Key Account Management and to delivering Engineering Advantage. Our focus on market leadership in global niches is reinforced by our ability to deliver on our customers’ need to demonstrate responsibility. We place significant emphasis on helping our customers to meet their responsible business commitments – from diversity targets to carbon emissions – ensuring superior long term value for our customers and inspiring their trust. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Global concerns relating to energy issues and climate change, whether driven by legislation or not, have a positive impact on customer demand for our products and services – many of which are clearly dedicated to energy efficient operation. Our customers also value the high standard of ethical business practices set out in the IMI Way, which is particularly relevant in emerging markets where responsible business risks can be higher. France’s first energy-positive building actually produces more energy than it consumes. It was designed to cut back on consumption by 65% compared to those built to RT 2005 standards, France’s most recent energy regulation for buildings. The TA Hydronics team in France were able to RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS provide a complete system solution for the building’s pressurisation, balancing and thermostatic control requirements thereby maximising comfort, whilst minimising energy usage. “Reducing climate change can start with effective indoor climate control. TA Hydronics is the industry leader in green solutions for indoor climate control.” Sean Toomes, Executive Director One of the largest LNG projects in the world, focused BOARD REPORTS on energy optimisation and the environment, turned to our Severe Service business to provide critical ball valves that can meet cryogenic temperatures (below -162°C) and provide 100% shut-off with proven reliability. In total, 2,700 valves were ordered for the Gorgon LNG plant in Australia, ensuring optimal plant efficiency and energy consumption. “CCI supports our customers’ responsible business priorities. We work with our customers proactively to identify and manage issues that are beneficial to all parties.” Mike Semens-Flanagan, President CCI FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 31 Responsible Business Responsible Business SUPPLY CHAIN AND MANUFACTURING IMI sources components, materials and services for its manufacturing and sales operations from many countries around the world. We recognise that there are local and national differences in business standards, but we will only procure from suppliers who have the same commitment to a set of minimum standards. IMI has set out these standards in the IMI Supply Chain To ensure compliance with these requirements, IMI Policy. It is our stated objective that IMI will only trade with developed a 3-step audit process which resulted in 140 suppliers that meet or exceed these minimum standards, or supplier audits in 2010 and 124 supplier audits in 2011. with suppliers that can demonstrate progression towards The audits in 2011 covered the following regions: these standards over an agreed and suitable timescale and • Asia (China, India and Korea) 40 audits who act according to the published IMI Way guidelines in relation to supply chain and procurement activities. • Central & South America (Mexico and Brazil) 64 audits • Central & Eastern Europe (Poland, Ukraine and the Czech Republic) 20 audits The audits challenge the suppliers on labour standards, ethics, health and safety and the environment in keeping with the IMI Way. As a result of the audit process, we identified 59 suppliers as a priority for additional review, following which we exited agreements with five suppliers due to responsible business and performance issues. However, the majority of the suppliers were totally committed to the IMI Way message and are working with us to improve their operations and businesses. In addition, in 2011, 62 of our supplier auditors across the world received additional training. In 2012, we will continue our audits of suppliers, invest in auditor training and complete Responsibly sourcing aluminium from suppliers our “audit-the-auditor” programme to ensure that all IMI is fundamental to our manufacturing operations. supplier auditors have a consistently high standard when reviewing the supply base. Each IMI Company must therefore ensure that suppliers comply with or exceed the following minimum requirements: • Suppliers will comply with all appropriate legislative requirements • No forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour will be used • No children are to be employed by IMI’s suppliers • Employees of our suppliers shall be paid wages and benefits that meet or exceed minimum national requirements • Employees of our suppliers shall work hours that comply with national laws • Our suppliers shall protect the health and safety of In the UK, Artform made a donation to The Water their employees to standards in keeping with local Project helping a community in Sierra Leone. expectations of good practice The charity focuses on building long-term, truly • Our suppliers shall protect the environment to sustainable water projects. The donation resulted standards in keeping with local expectations of in the purchase of a hand well pump alongside good practice supplying two school classrooms with safe water. Clean water doesn’t just save lives, it changes them forever. 32 Responsible business BUSINESS OVERVIEW OTHER IMI ACTIVITIES Community engagement The communities where we operate are crucial to the success of IMI. We have a duty to be a responsible business citizen and to meet our commitments to these communities. Although our projects and facilities can bring benefits to local communities by creating jobs and GROUP OPERATING REVIEW investment in the surrounding area, they can also give rise to concerns. Consequently, IMI works to be a good neighbour and demonstrates high economic, social and environmental standards. We also remain respectful of human rights and assist our local communities through charitable activities The Reynosa team at IMI Cornelius, Mexico, was and community volunteering. able to purchase, deliver and present new equipment Employee investment and talent development to three local charities. Through these donations, over We continue to focus on the development and engagement 500 children will enjoy the benefit of new advanced of our employees to ensure we have the right skills and equipment to support their treatment, help their expertise to fulfil our ambitions as a company. therapy and improve their lifestyles. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS In 2011, we conducted our second Employee Engagement Survey. Our response rate increased by 3% from 2009 and our employees reported even higher levels of commitment and engagement, indicating that the actions we had taken our future leaders. Finally, we developed job families for in response to the 2009 survey had been to good effect. our specialist areas (including finance, health and safety To directly address the employee concerns from 2011, and Key Account Management) to ensure development of we will launch a new global performance management this key talent and to create visible career paths for these programme in 2012. employees. As well as local training within business units to support The IMI graduate programme continues to provide our employees, we continued to invest in our leadership high-quality engineering and future leadership talent into talent in 2011 via our IMI Leaders Boot Camp programme, the business. delivering high quality training and on-going development All of the investment in our development programmes has to our top talent. We also launched our Management the aim of ensuring that we have a diverse pipeline of BOARD REPORTS Fundamentals programme which provided training and employees for future senior leadership and specialist roles development to around 100 managers globally, developing in the business. In Germany, Norgren Alpen works alongside Spix, a non-profit community organisation, to help people with learning disabilities become active members of the labour market. In this win-win situation, Norgren can relieve its regular employees of some of the simpler tasks whilst Spix clients, who identify enthusiastically with Norgren, enjoy the protection FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of attending a sheltered workshop, increasing their living standards and self-esteem. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 33 Board Reports PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES In common with all businesses, there are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group’s long-term performance. The Group has in place an established risk management structure and internal controls framework which together are designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk. A summary of the Group’s risk management processes is given on page 46 and the Group’s approach to corporate social responsibility and associated risks is described on pages 28 to 33. In addition to the risks described here, the Group is also exposed to a number of financial market risks including credit risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. A description of these risks and the Group’s centralised approach to managing them is described in note 18 to the financial statements. Further information about pension liabilities is given in note 19 to the financial statements. Risk Description of risk and potential impact Examples of mitigating actions Economic The Group’s European revenues are principally derived from • Diverse business portfolio serving different customers and market Northern and Central Europe, however, the status of the global and markets economy and in particular the uncertainties in the Eurozone could environment adversely affect the Group’s revenues. The Group’s cost base • Accelerate growth agenda: investment in new product development and emerging markets includes many costs that cannot be reduced in the short-term in line with reductions in profitability. The Group may also be • Monitoring of customer and supplier financial security required to reassess the carrying value of acquired goodwill and • Cost base reduction initiatives other assets if certain end-markets deteriorate further or for longer, which may result in impairment charges. • Regular updating of contingency plans • Effective cash management • Allocation of resource to more resilient customers, markets and geographies and focus on global growth trends (climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and ageing population) Legal and The Group’s worldwide operations and expansion in emerging • Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in regulatory markets expose it to different legal and regulatory requirements The IMI Way providing a guiding set of values that exemplify how IMI risks and standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates employees should behave including those for financial reporting, taxation, environmental, operational, anti-corruption, fraud and competition matters. • IMI Way days held in all businesses which includes face-to-face training for all employees The Group is also exposed to the potential for litigation from third parties which may arise in the ordinary course of business. • Policies, manuals, training, business processes and monitoring of key The Company operates various corporate governance, compliance and legal risks compliance and internal control frameworks which are essential • Increase in resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance for the effective management of such geographically diverse businesses. Failures in these controls might have a material • Training of employees on The IMI Way and key risk areas such as competition law and anti-corruption impact on the Group. • Enhanced version of The IMI Way to be published in 2012 • Availability and promotion of the IMI Hotline to report concerns anonymously • Internal financial control audits by IMI Group Assurance • Anti-bribery, corruption and fraud workshops carried out Health, The Group recognises that it has a duty of care to all of its • Established systems in place under the IMI Safety First, Safety Always safety and employees and to others with whom the Group interacts through slogan, to ensure that health, safety and environmental matters are environits products and operations. In the event of any failure in the appropriately addressed and any such risks are minimised including mental Group’s health, safety and environmental procedures, there is a monthly reporting to, and review at, the Executive and quarterly review potential risk of injury or death to IMI’s employees or others; or at the IMI Board environmental damage, with the consequential impact on the operations and the risk of regulatory action against the Group. • Increase of full-time health, safety and environmental officers across the Group to ensure policies are embedded and measured • Introduction of a new travel risk management programme providing appropriate advice and support to all of the Group's international travellers • Regular review of Group safety performance • Group Environment, Health and Safety function with experienced specialist employees to provide support and guidance to businesses including the conduct of regular risk control and health and safety audits • Maintenance of insurance for costs associated with any employers' liability, workers' compensation or equivalent claims and also certain environmental incidents Pension The Group’s defined benefit pension arrangements are exposed • Deficit reduction plans implemented where appropriate funding to the risk of changes in interest rates and the market values of investments as well as inflation, increased longevity of members • Liability management exercises implemented to remove risk from the IMI Pension Fund and statutory requirements. This may result in the cost of funding defined benefit pension arrangements becoming an increasingly • Closure of overseas defined benefit plans to new members and future significant burden on the Group’s financial resources. accrual where permissible • Active management of pension scheme assets and long-term view of liability assumptions 34 Board reports Risk Description of risk and potential impact Examples of mitigating actions BUSINESS OVERVIEW Products The Group is exposed to risks associated with the • Continued focus on quality and safety, including audits to and commercial failure of products, projects and technologies appropriate quality standards technology such as product liability and warranty claims. The quality and safety of our products is of the highest importance and there • Processes to mitigate the reputational and legal implications of any failure is an associated risk if they are below standard. For product claims not covered by insurance, the costs that cannot • Maintenance of insurance cover for product liability claims otherwise be recovered may be material to the Group. • Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality and product development • Contract management resources for both sales and purchases GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Key Certain of the Group’s businesses benefit from close • Collaborative development of bespoke new products customers commercial relationships with key customers. The loss of certain of these key relationships whether through • Development of strong relationships with new accounts to maintain a diverse portfolio across business sectors and geographic regions competition, consolidation or insolvency could have a material impact on the Group’s results. The Group’s top • Monitoring of markets for advance warning of negative commercial developments ten customers represent approximately 15% of total Group revenues. Onerous contract conditions with key customers • Further investment in and development of Key Account Management and Engineering Advantage could impact the Group’s financial performance. • Increase in resources dedicated to legal contract review and enhanced contract sign off procedures Supply The Group has a significant number of contracts with • Monitoring of risk and development of contingency plans to chain a broad base of suppliers. In the current economic mitigate the impact of any supplier failure or increased prices environment there is a risk that their access to credit or adverse trading conditions could lead to an inability to • Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers meet their contractual commitments to the Group. In • Moves to new lower cost manufacturing facilities, ongoing review of alternative low cost economy based suppliers and, where addition, upward price pressure from the supply chain appropriate, supplier consolidation could erode profits. The increasing use of suppliers in low • RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Training and audit programme to validate suppliers’ business cost economies could introduce risks related to quality processes, quality and standards or responsible business practices. All this could have a material impact on the Group’s results. Competitive The Group operates in highly competitive markets. • Initiatives and investment in research and development targeted markets Significant product innovations, technical advances or to sustain the Group’s Engineering Advantage the intensification of price competition could all adversely affect the Group’s results. The Group’s continued success • Monitoring of competing markets and products, including adjacent technologies, to facilitate early identification of potential depends upon its ability to continue to develop and threats and development of contingency plans produce new and enhanced products and services on a cost-effective and timely basis in accordance with • Cost base reduction initiatives, including supplier rationalisation and value engineering customer demands. • Processes for managing investment in research and development including appropriate stage gates for reviewing progress against clearly-defined, often customer-driven, technical and commercial objectives M&A IMI’s growth strategy is in part dependent on acquisitions. • Rigorous due diligence process with clear financial targets BOARD REPORTS activity The execution and integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks, including diversion of management’s • Formal internal approval requirements attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired • Appropriate business integration processes to ensure that the Group’s policies, values, compliance and control framework are business and risks associated with unanticipated events or adopted and embedded liabilities. The Group may also be subject to liabilities as a result of past or future disposals. • Investment in M&A skills and resources to support the growth strategy Talent A loss of key personnel or the inability of the Group to recruit • Succession plans in place and regularly reviewed acquisition and retain high calibre managers and engineering talent may lead to the Group not being able to implement its business • Group-wide training and development programmes and plans and strategy effectively and experiencing delays, or • Increased resources in emerging markets retention increased difficulty, in the strategic development of the Group, • Regular employee-wide surveys and action plans targeted by company or geography including in developing and selling its products and services. Major The achievement of IMI’s strategic objectives will require a • Upgrade of resources and talent in project management change number of major change projects in areas of manufacturing realignment, information technology improvements and • Regular review of project progression by Executive projects • Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action FINANCIAL STATEMENTS business reorganisations. Failure to deliver successful plans for all major change projects major change projects in a timely manner could impact the Group’s financial performance. Risk Appetite The Board has considered the Group’s risk appetite and it is considered appropriate to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives. The level of risk appetite varies according to the rewards associated with each of the above risk categories. Risk appetite is higher for new product development, emerging market growth and bolt-on acquisitions, in keeping with our objective for further strategic convergence and is lower for employee safety and compliance with regulatory and business ethics. The degree of risk to be accepted on an operational basis is managed through delegation of authority levels and ensuring consistency with The IMI Way. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 35 Board Reports Board of Directors NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ROBERTO QUARTA Chairman Age 62; non-executive; joined the IMI Board in 2011. Roberto Quarta has significant management experience spanning a broad range of manufacturing and service businesses with global operations. Roberto is currently a partner and Chairman Europe of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, where he has worked since 2000. He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rexel SA, a non-executive director of Foster Wheeler AG and Spie SA, and recently stepped down from the Board of BAE Systems plc. Roberto is the Roberto Quarta head of the Nominations Committee. TERRY GATELEY KEVIN BEESTON ANITA FREW BOB STACK Age 58; non-executive; Age 49; non-executive; Age 54; non-executive; Age 61; non-executive; joined the IMI Board in joined the IMI Board in joined the IMI Board in joined the IMI Board in 2008. 2003. 2005. 2006. Bob Stack is a non-executive Terry Gateley began his Kevin Beeston is Chairman Anita Frew is Chairman director of J Sainsbury plc career as a Chartered of Taylor Wimpey plc and of Victrex plc, a senior where he is Chairman of the Accountant and was in also chairs three private non-executive director Remuneration Committee. private practice with KPMG businesses, Partnerships of Aberdeen Asset He is a Trustee of Earthwatch until 1999, and since in Care Limited, Domestic Management plc and a Europe and on the Board then he has chaired eight and General Limited and non-executive director of Earthwatch International. private equity businesses. Equiniti Group. He is also an of Lloyds Banking Group Past directorships include He chairs the IMI Audit Operating Partner with the plc. She was previously executive director of Cadbury Committee and is IMI’s global private equity firm an executive director of plc where he served for senior independent director. Advent International. Abbott Mead Vickers plc 12 years. Bob chairs the and Director of Corporate Remuneration Committee. Development at WPP Group plc. Terry Gateley Kevin Beeston Anita Frew Bob Stack 36 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MARTIN LAMB Chief Executive GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Age 52; joined IMI in 1986. Martin Lamb has been Chief Executive of IMI since 2001 having been appointed to the Board in 1996. Martin, who has an engineering background, has worked for IMI for over 25 years and has held a number of senior management roles across the Group during this time. He is also a non-executive director of Severn Trent Water plc. Martin Lamb RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS DOUGLAS HURT ROY TWITE IAN WHITING SEAN TOOMES Finance Director Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Age 55; joined IMI and the Age 44; joined IMI in 1988. Age 48; joined IMI in 2005. Age 43; joined IMI in 1985. Board in 2006. Roy Twite was appointed to Ian Whiting was appointed Sean Toomes was Douglas Hurt was previously the Board in February 2007. to the Board in 2010. He appointed to the Board with GlaxoSmithKline, During his career with IMI, joined Control Components in 2011. He joined IMI where he held both financial Roy has held a number of Inc in 2005 from Novar plc on a trainee programme and operational roles senior roles in all five of where he was President of at Watson Smith, part of including a number of IMI’s platform businesses. Novar Systems Americas. the Fluid Power business. US and European senior In 2011, Roy retained Ian was previously President Sean is President of IMI’s management positions. responsibility for Fluid of Severe Service and is now Indoor Climate division, He is a member of the Power, whilst accepting responsible for leading IMI’s and is accountable for Institute of Chartered the additional management emerging markets business, IMI’s responsible business BOARD REPORTS Accountants. He is also a accountability for the corporate development, the portfolio of compliance, non-executive director of Severe Service business. mergers and acquisitions health, safety and Tate & Lyle plc. agenda and the Group environment, as well as the supply chain function. continuing development and promotion of our Key Account Management capabilities. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Douglas Hurt Roy Twite Ian Whiting Sean Toomes IMI plc Annual Report 2011 37 Board Reports Directors’ Report The directors present their report, together with the audited Share capital financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011. As at 31 December 2011, the Company’s share capital Business review comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each. Details of the share The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to present capital of the Company are set out in note 22 to the a business review in this report. The information that fulfils financial statements on pages 119 and 120. The ordinary the business review requirements can be found on pages 4 shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. to 33 and page 46, which are incorporated into this report by reference. This includes a review of the development The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt and performance of the business of the IMI group of (ADR) programme for which Citibank, N.A. acts as companies (the Group), including the financial performance depositary. The ADRs are traded on the US over-theduring the financial year ended 31 December 2011, key counter market under the symbol IMIAY, where each ADR performance indicators, the principal risks and uncertainties represents two ordinary shares. facing the Group and our risk management processes. As at 31 December 2011, 3,831,120 shares are held in an employee trust for use in relation to certain executive Principal activities incentive plans representing 1.2% of the issued share IMI plc is a global engineering group focused on the precise capital (excluding treasury shares) at that time. The voting control and movement of fluids in critical applications. rights attached to shares held in the employee trust were IMI plc is the holding company of the Group. The Group’s not exercised during the year. businesses comprise five platforms organised into two During the year, 310,310 new ordinary shares were issued principal activities: Fluid Controls, comprising Severe Service, under employee share schemes: 150,563 under the all Fluid Power and Indoor Climate; and Retail Dispense, employee share ownership scheme and save as you earn comprising Beverage Dispense and Merchandising. The main plans and 159,747 under executive share plans. Shares subsidiary companies operating within these two principal acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank activities are listed on pages 130 and 131. The revenue, equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights. profit and capital employed attributable to each of these businesses is shown in note 2 on pages 85 to 87. The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares are set out in the Company’s articles of Results and dividend association, copies of which can be obtained from The Group consolidated income statement is shown Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company on page 70. Segmental operating profit amounted to Secretary. Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be £374.1m (2010: £319.7m) and profit before taxation issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company amounted to £301.4m (2010: £306.1m). may by ordinary resolution decide or (if there is no such The directors recommend a final dividend of 19.0p per resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision) share (2010: 17.0p per share) on the ordinary share capital as the Board may decide. payable, subject to shareholder approval, on 21 May 2012 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Company’s report and accounts, to attend, speak and vote at 13 April 2012. Together with the interim dividend of 11.0p general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to per share paid on 14 October 2011, this final dividend will exercise their rights. Holders of ordinary shares may receive bring the total distribution for the year to 30.0p per share a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the (2010: 26.0p per share). Company. Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of Research and development ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at annual general meetings. Expenditure on research and development in the year Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are was £43.2m (2010: £41.9m), of this amount £4.4m suspended and the treasury shares carry no rights to receive (2010: £5.0m) has been capitalised. dividends or other distributions of assets. Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ funds increased from £525.7m at the end of 2010 to £564.8m at 31 December 2011. 38 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with in the Company other than: significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other than those noted above. • certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example insider Statement on corporate governance trading laws); and The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate • pursuant to the Company’s share dealing code whereby Governance Report on pages 42 to 47 and are the directors and certain employees of the Company incorporated into this report by reference. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW require approval to deal in the Company’s shares. Employment policies The Company is not aware of any arrangements between The Group continues to support employee involvement at shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of all levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each ordinary shares or on voting rights. None of the ordinary of its businesses to keep its employees informed on Group shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the and individual business developments and to make its Company. The only restrictions on voting rights are those employees aware of the financial and economic factors that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury, as affecting the performance of the business in which they described above. Electronic and paper proxy appointments work, using their own consultation and communication and voting instructions must be received by the Company’s methods. A European Works Council has been in registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting, operation since 2003 and meets at least once a year to or any adjournment thereof. exchange views on pan-European issues facing the Group. Own shares acquired by the Company At the date of this Annual Report, there are 15 members of RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS At the annual general meeting of the Company held on the European Works Council comprising 13 employee 6 May 2011 authority was given for the Company to representatives nominated from among employees from purchase up to 48,116,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p each of our European businesses, covering 11 countries, each. The Company did not use this authority to make any with the balance being Company appointees. The Group’s purchases of its own shares during the period. At the next financial results and important initiatives such as health annual general meeting of the Company, shareholders will and safety, training and development, and employee be asked to give a similar authority, details of which are engagement are communicated through a number of contained in the separate circular. mechanisms including the Works Council, newsletters and As at 31 December 2011, 19,124,700 ordinary shares intranets for the individual businesses and the Company’s (nominal value £4,781,175) were held in treasury website and ‘town hall’ meetings. representing 6% of the issued share capital (excluding Share schemes are a long established and successful part treasury shares) at that time. of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting employee share ownership. Full details of employee share Substantial shareholdings BOARD REPORTS schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages Information provided to the Company pursuant to the 48 to 67 and in note 20 to the financial statements on FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a pages 115 to 118. regulatory information service. As at 31 December 2011, A number of people development initiatives are cothe following voting interests in the ordinary share capital ordinated across the Group, which are based on the of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Company’s values of excellence, innovation and integrity. Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company: These initiatives include succession and development BlackRock, Inc. 10.81% planning, leadership development programmes, the IMI Standard Life Investments Limited 9.02% graduate programme and the embedding of the Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 4.99% ‘Leadership Blueprint’, our competency model, in AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4.86% recruitment and selection, performance management processes, and training programmes. These initiatives and Newton Investment Management Limited 3.96% the Company’s approach to employee investment and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Legal and General Group plc 3.86% talent development are explained on page 33. During the period from 31 December 2011 to 1 March 2012 the Company was notified that the interests of BlackRock, Inc. had changed to 9.97%, Standard Life Investments Limited had changed to 8.92% and Ameriprise Financial, Inc. had changed to 5.02%. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 39 Board Reports Directors’ Report Our policy on employee diversity and equal opportunity is Directors to comply with relevant legislation in the countries in which The membership of the Board and biographical details of we operate and to actively promote our diversity goal the directors are given on pages 36 and 37 and are to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic incorporated into this report by reference. Roberto Quarta priorities and to reflect the diverse nature of our global was appointed to the Board initially as a non-executive business. We ensure that our talent pipelines are director with effect from 1 June 2011, before taking over as diverse, for example our Global Graduate Programme Chairman from Norman Askew who retired from the Board includes people from more than 20 countries, with, in on 31 October 2011. Sean Toomes was also appointed to recent years, over 40% of our graduate intake being the Board as an executive director on 1 June 2011. female. At all levels we are focused on increasing our The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors diversity as reflected in the appointment of our new are set out in the Company’s articles of association. Chairman, Roberto Quarta and our long-standing female Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for non-executive director, Anita Frew. When recruiting we election at the next annual general meeting following their strive to ensure that our shortlists of candidates are diverse appointment and Roberto Quarta and Sean Toomes will and that our people are trained to avoid bias in the process seek election having been appointed to the Board during in order to ensure fair selection criteria. Our training the year. In addition, the Company’s articles of association programmes for senior and middle management (the IMI require each director to stand for re-election at least once Academy, Management Fundamentals and the IMI Leaders every three years. However, in accordance with the new Boot Camp) include selection and interview training. provision contained in the UK Corporate Governance One way we measure progress is through the Employee Code, all continuing directors will submit themselves for Engagement Survey. The 2011 survey confirmed that over re-election at the next annual general meeting and are 80% of our employees feel highly valued and respected recommended for re-election. Changes to the articles of for the diversity they bring to the business and the association must be approved by a special resolution of opportunities they have within our meritocracy. the shareholders (75% majority required) in accordance Health, safety and the environment with the legislation in force at the time. It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from regard to the environment. Information on our key qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in place performance indicators in this area is given on pages 15 during the financial year. At the date of this Annual Report and 30 and further information is available on page 29 there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in and on our website www.imiplc.com. respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against them, in their capacity as a Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors director, where not covered by insurance and subject always Operating units are responsible for setting terms of payment to the limitations set by the Companies Act 2006. when agreeing the terms of each business transaction, ensuring that suppliers are made aware of the terms of Directors’ powers payment and abiding by such terms, subject to the supplier The powers of the directors are determined by UK performing to its obligations. IMI plc is a holding company legislation and the articles of association of the Company and has no trade creditors. in force from time to time. The directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make Donations market purchases of the Company’s ordinary shares. £214,000 was given during 2011 (2010: £180,000) for These powers are exercised under the authority of charitable purposes. The Group supports a range of resolutions of the Company passed at its annual general selected national charities and smaller charitable meeting. Further details of authorities the Company is organisations operating in communities where the Group seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its has a presence. Our approach to charitable and other ordinary shares are set out in the separate circular donations is explained on pages 32 and 33. No political containing the notice of the annual general meeting. donations were made during the year. 40 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW Directors’ interests Cautionary statements The interests of the persons (including the interests of The business review and other content of this Annual any connected persons) who were directors at the end of Report have been prepared for and only for the members the year, in the share capital of the Company, and their of the Company as a body and no other persons. interests under share option and incentive schemes, are Neither the Company nor its directors or officers accept or shown on pages 64 to 65 and on page 67. assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report Essential contracts and change of control beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of GROUP OPERATING REVIEW this Annual Report pursuant to and for the purposes The Group does not have any single contract or other required by UK legislation. arrangement which is essential to its business taken as a whole. Sections of this Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements about the Group, including, for example, The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of statements relating to: future demand and markets for the agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or Group’s products and services, research and development terminate the arrangements on a change of control of the relating to new products and services, tax rates, liquidity Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial and capital resources and implementation of restructuring contracts and employee share plans. Other than as plans and efficiencies. Any forward-looking statements are referred to in the next paragraph, none of these is by their nature subject to numerous risks and uncertainties considered by the Company to be significant in terms that could cause actual results to differ materially from those of its likely impact on the Group as a whole. expressed or implied by such statements depending on a In the event of a change of control of the Company, the variety of factors, including, for example, those described in Group’s main funding agreements allow the lenders to RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS this Annual Report under the heading ‘Principal risks and renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all uncertainties’. IMI undertakes no obligation to update any outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities. In the forward-looking statements whether as a result of new current economic climate this could have a significant information, future events or otherwise. Nothing in this effect on the liquidity of the business. Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. The Company does not have agreements with any director Annual general meeting or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment specifically resulting from a takeover, The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton although provisions of the Company’s share schemes Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors Birmingham on Friday 4 May 2012, commencing at noon. and employees under such schemes to vest in those Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a circumstances. separate circular. Going concern Auditor BOARD REPORTS A statement in relation to the adoption of the going Resolutions for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as concern basis in preparing the financial statements auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to appears on page 27 and is incorporated into this report determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next by reference. annual general meeting. Disclosure of information to auditor By order of the Board Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the John O’Shea Company’s auditor is unaware; and each director has Company Secretary taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a 1 March 2012 director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275 audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 41 Board Reports Chairman’s Governance Introduction I became Chairman in November 2011, following the retirement of Norman Askew. As Chairman, I intend to play a leading role in shaping the governance agenda and taking the Company forward. First, I would like to pay tribute to Norman Askew for his excellent stewardship of the Company during his six years as Chairman. His legacy includes an open and engaged Board working within a well developed corporate governance structure, all of which together provide firm foundations to build on for the future. To help me assess and find ways to improve Board effectiveness, I arranged workshops with the non-executive directors and with the executives, both of which were facilitated by an external consultant. I will be using this input to develop some changes in practice aimed at enhancing the role of the Board. A full, externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise will be conducted later in the year. On the non-executive side of the Board, we have a strong team of four independent directors with varied backgrounds and experience. They have all been IMI directors for several years and all are familiar with the businesses and enjoy opportunities for contact with the wider management group at formal Board meetings, management conferences and visits to IMI facilities. In 2011 the non-executives and I have each visited a number of facilities around the Group. In January 2012 most of the non-executive team again joined the top senior managers at IMI’s annual senior management conference, which was held in Milan and combined with visits to IMI operations in Italy. I am keen to engage with shareholders and have already met with a number of larger institutional investors since my appointment in the autumn. I look forward to meeting many more shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting. Roberto Quarta Chairman 1 March 2012 42 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW Board Reports the Board’s corporate governance report Set out below is the Board’s formal report on corporate governance. Compliance Statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2011 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Board’s report on corporate governance and in its Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67. The Board is able to report compliance with the Code throughout 2011, subject to the need to fill one vacancy for a non-executive director which arose in November 2011. The Board GROUP OPERATING REVIEW At the end of the year the Board comprised ten directors: the Chairman; Chief Executive; four independent non-executive directors; the Finance Director and three operational executive directors. Changes in the composition of the Board during the year are noted below and in the Directors’ Report. In order to balance the mix of non-executive and executive directors, at least one additional non-executive director is to be appointed and a search is underway. The non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. All of them meet the criteria for independence under the Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of the Group’s executive management. The Chairman, Roberto Quarta, was also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment to the Board. Terry Gateley is the senior independent director. The nonexecutive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry. Biographical details of the current directors are shown on pages 36 and 37. In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves for re-election at annual general meetings. The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and oversees business and management performance. In December 2010, the Board adopted a Corporate Governance Framework which defines Board roles and includes the list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS management. Board reserved matters include strategy and key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group. The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis. Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group, as well as regularly tracking changes in risk assessment and controls. Senior executives from around the Group are regularly invited by the Board to attend meetings to make presentations and join in discussion. The Company’s articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the Company website. These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board of potential conflicts of interest. These procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and it is the Board’s view that they operated effectively during the year under review. There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reflected in the written Corporate Governance Framework approved by the Board. In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities. The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in running the businesses and implementing operating and strategic plans under authority BOARD REPORTS delegated by the Board. The five executive directors are: the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb; Finance Director, Douglas Hurt; and three operational executives, Sean Toomes, Roy Twite and Ian Whiting. Changes in executive responsibilities were announced effective from 1 September 2011. Roy Twite, in addition to continuing in his role as President of Fluid Power, assumed responsibility for the Severe Service businesses. Ian Whiting, has responsibilities for corporate development, including M&A and developing IMI’s interests in the emerging markets, and for the Group procurement function. Sean Toomes runs the Indoor Climate business and has functional responsibility for compliance, environmental, health and safety matters. Non-executive directors are supported in becoming familiar with the businesses during and after induction and there is regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits and formal meetings and events like the annual management conference. The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration. He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant regulatory requirements. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the standing committees of the Board. The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense and all directors have access to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Secretary who is a solicitor. The Board met on nine occasions during the year including four quarterly reviews, strategy discussions, visits to operations and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose. All members of the Board were in attendance at each of the meetings held during their tenure save that Kevin Beeston, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite missed one special purpose meeting but none of them missed a quarterly or strategy meeting. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 43 Board Reports the Board’s corporate governance report The Board (continued) The non-executive directors met individually and as a group with the Chairman on a number of occasions during the year. The senior independent director, Terry Gateley, met with the other non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman, inter alia, to review the Chairman’s performance as contemplated by the Combined Code. Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation A formal induction process for new directors has been well established for several years and is the responsibility of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive, Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director. A revised, standard induction programme for new directors has been set by the Chairman following his own experience of joining the Board in 2011. During and after induction directors are expected to visit business units around the Group and to meet with operating management and corporate staff. Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing professional development is available to all directors and all directors participated in some appropriate training during the year at Board meetings. In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process at least once every three years starting from 2012. An internal evaluation of the Board and its committees was completed in 2011, the results of which the Chairman reported to the Board. This process included questionnaires and appropriate face to face discussions including individual meetings between the Chairman and the non-executive directors. In addition, the other directors met with the senior independent director regarding the performance of the Chairman. The Board received the findings of the evaluation in March 2011 and the directors confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately. The evaluation concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that each director demonstrated a valuable contribution. The contribution and performance of the directors, all of whom are standing for election or re-election at the 2012 annual general meeting, is further commented on in the notice of the annual general meeting. Following his appointment as Chairman in November 2011, Roberto Quarta held Board effectiveness workshops with an external facilitator as mentioned in the introduction on page 42. Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee. Each of these committees operates under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities. The full terms of reference of these committees were updated in December 2010 and are part of the Corporate Governance Framework which appears on the Company website. The committees report to the Board on their work, normally through their respective Chairman, at quarterly or more frequent intervals as appropriate. Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Terry Gateley. All of the other independent non-executive directors were also members of the Audit Committee throughout the year. Terry Gateley is a qualified Chartered Accountant and has significant recent and relevant financial experience. The committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the financial statements and reports that are prepared by executive management. The committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when required to do so. The committee’s work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies, significant issues of judgement and, as described below under the section headed Internal Control starting on page 47, it looked at the effectiveness of internal financial controls. The committee approved the proposed external audit approach and scope as well as the internal audit programme. The committee takes a risk based approach to audit and other assurance activity. The committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor. In assessing auditor independence the committee had regard to the Smith Guidance for audit committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the committee and requires approval by the Chairman of the committee for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed £150,000 and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as functioning in the role of management or auditing its own work. The committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as the ‘IMI Group Assurance Department’, and reviews the operation of the Group whistle-blowing policy and the independent hotline (www.imihotline.com). During the year the committee received an independent report on the effectiveness of the internal assurance function and will be monitoring progress of the implementation of agreed recommendations. The committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor and believes the work has been satisfactory. The committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to reappoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting. Ernst & Young was first appointed as auditor in 2009 following a formal selection process. The term of appointment is annual and there are no contractual restrictions on the committee’s choice of auditor. 44 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance. Minutes and papers are normally circulated to all members of the Board. The committee normally calls upon the Chairman, all of the executive directors, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Assurance Director to attend meetings but holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with the auditor and Group Assurance Director. The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Bob Stack and he, Kevin Beeston, Anita Frew and Terry Gateley were all members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year. Norman Askew was a member until his retirement on GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 31 October 2011 and Roberto Quarta joined the committee on 1 June 2011. The committee’s main responsibilities are to determine the remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors including new appointments and to set the Chairman’s remuneration. As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is responsible for the structure and level of the performance related elements of executive remuneration and other benefits. The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management and has regard to pay for employees across the Group when determining executive remuneration. The committee met on six occasions during the year with all members in attendance. External consultants are engaged by the committee to provide independent advice and the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Group Human Resources Director attended its meetings when required. The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing summary report on its work. More details in respect of remuneration matters are given in the Remuneration Report. Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, Roberto Quarta who chairs the committee, all of the independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive. Norman Askew was committee chairman until he retired on 31 October 2011 and was succeeded by Roberto Quarta, who joined the committee on 1 June 2011. During the year the committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees and made nominations for appointments to the Board and its RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS committees. External consultants are engaged by the committee in relation to any search for successor non-executives. Appointments of non-executives are made on the basis of a standard form of appointment letter. Each non-executive director and the Chairman were appointed on the basis of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the committee. The committee considers that the time given by each non-executive was sufficient. The committee also reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and during the year it made recommendations, which were approved by the Board, concerning the appointment of Sean Toomes as an executive director. The committee met on six occasions during the year with all members in attendance. During the year the committee spent a substantial part of its time on executive talent development and succession planning. The senior independent non-executive director, Terry Gateley, led the search for the new Company Chairman along with the other members of the committee, excluding the outgoing Chairman, and external search consultants were engaged for this purpose. In response to Lord Davies’ report on Boardroom Diversity, the Company issued a policy statement, approved by the committee and the Board, which appears on the corporate website. Our policy is to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities and to reflect the diverse nature of the global footprint of our businesses, reflecting the location of our customers and markets. We will continue to review the composition of our management teams and Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution BOARD REPORTS capabilities. We will seek a diverse pool of the best quality candidates to draw from, both internally and when recruiting externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness of the Company. At Board level, there are three nationalities, one of four non-executives is female and there is a broad mix of backgrounds and experience. The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work. Executive Committee The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors and the Group Human Resources Director. The secretary to the committee is the Company Secretary. Senior executives and line managers from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee. It normally meets monthly and more often as may be required and all members attended at least ten of the twelve meetings in the year, several of which were held over two days. The committee is the senior management body and as part of its broad remit it will monitor performance, review progress against strategic objectives, consider business management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board. It also acts as the risk committee of the Board and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance and legal and corporate affairs. Its minutes are circulated to all members of the Board. The committee reviewed its own FINANCIAL STATEMENTS performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work. Investor relations The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, particularly private investors. The 2011 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors. The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 45 Board Reports the Board’s corporate governance report Investor relations (continued) Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2011 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the Directors’ Report for 2010. A separate resolution for the approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting. Notice of the 2011 annual general meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the Company’s website. The Board values its good relations with shareholders and resolutions proposed at the 2011 annual general meeting received great support. In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results and interim results announcements in March and August, respectively, as well as, interim management statements. The Company website includes recordings of certain key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, interim management statements, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses. The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with Equiniti (details are shown on page 134). A sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme was established on 16 February 2011 for which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary (details on page 134). The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their investments. Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors. The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and report thereon to the Board at least quarterly. They are supported by the Investor Relations Director, Will Shaw. In addition, financial analysts’ notes are circulated to the directors and regular feedback reports from the Company’s brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors’ views. The Chairman, senior independent director and other non-executives do meet with major shareholders upon request, and will do so if any of them considers it appropriate: informal meetings of this type did take place in 2011 and there were also consultations with the larger shareholders and institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect of remuneration matters. Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, voting and other rights of shareholders, directors’ appointments, removal and powers is set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 38 to 41. Risk management processes The Board has assigned specific responsibility to the Executive Committee to act as the risk committee of the Board. This is a key feature of the remit of the Executive Committee, which is part of the IMI Corporate Governance Framework. The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk management systems in respect of which the Board has oversight. The annual strategic risk review process is integrated into the annual forecasting and business planning requirements of the Group and monitoring and updates are carried out between annual reviews. Each operating unit and corporate function is therefore required to undertake a regular process of business risk assessment and reporting. The President of each business division has appointed a Risk Champion with responsibility for embedding the Group risk assessment process in their business. The businesses’ risk reports, including mitigation action plans for significant risks, are reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant business and then considered by the Group Assurance Director who puts regular reports to the Executive Committee, which in turn submits a full annual risk review and at least two updates each year to the Board. The other corporate functions go through a similar process and their input is reflected in these reports. The Chairman and Terry Gateley, the senior independent non-executive and chair of the Audit Committee, attended the Executive Committee’s annual risk review meeting. The divisional business Presidents present their strategic risks to the Board as part of the annual business plan session and the Board explicitly considers the risks associated with the Company’s strategic objectives. The Executive Committee also reports to the Board on major business and other risks involved in specific investment decisions including acquisitions. During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control. The Audit Committee also reviewed the nature and scope of the external audit and the internal audit work carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department. The Remuneration Committee conducted a review of incentive arrangements with reference to their alignment with strategic objectives and appropriate risk-taking. Through these processes significant risks are identified, assessed and ranked according to their probability and materiality and, following Executive Committee review, the Board considers what measures are appropriate in order to mitigate, transfer or avoid such risks. Risk appetite across the range of strategic objectives of the Group was also reviewed by the Board. Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 34 to 35. Financial reporting processes The use of the Group accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Group’s accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process. The use of a standard reporting package by 46 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements. Internal control The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Group’s system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the Combined Code and relevant guidance as updated in 2005 by the Financial Reporting Council (the ‘Turnbull Guidance’). In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly defined in writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for the Chief GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Executive and the Executive Committee. The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting and control disciplines. Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities. They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject to regular senior management reviews of performance. All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board. Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board. Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group. Certified quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group financial reporting requirements. There is also a central internal audit function, the IMI Group Assurance Department, which operates a rolling programme of internal assurance reporting and reviews. These include on site reviews of selected operating units which are carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department. Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group finance personnel. These internal assurance processes are co-ordinated with the external auditor. Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their materiality, to the Board. In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls in relation to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions. Compliance and audit reports are made to the Board, and to the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored. Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal control system. More information in relation to risk is given above under the heading Risk management processes. Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2011 and up to the date of this Annual Report. The Board believes that the Group’s system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Business model A description of how the Group preserves and generates value and the strategy for delivering its long-term objectives is BOARD REPORTS given in the Business Overview section on pages 4 to 5 and 10 to 15. Responsible business A major ethics and compliance programme, known as The IMI Way, has been adopted across the Group and is led by the Group Compliance Manager, Jo Morgan. Reports on compliance and The IMI Way programme are considered at every regular meeting of the Board and the Executive Committee. The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and The IMI Way Code of Responsible Business incorporates a series of corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the Group. At a Group level, responsible business activity is co-ordinated through a steering group chaired by Sean Toomes and key issues of corporate social responsibility are identified, monitored and addressed through the Group’s general business processes and risk management framework. The Company satisfies the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index. In addition, IMI has membership of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 28 to 33 and on the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company website. By order of the Board John O’Shea Company Secretary 1 March 2012 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 47 Board Reports remuneration report 1. Overview This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. In its 2011 annual review the Remuneration Committee concluded that the current remuneration strategy and structure remain appropriate and provide strong alignment with the creation of shareholder value and an appropriate balance between long-term and short-term reward. The reward programme is compatible with the Company’s approach to risk, and reinforces the Company’s values and behaviours defined in The IMI Way. The committee is encouraged by the excellent results achieved by the business and regards performance related pay as a critical element of remuneration and a driver of success. Against a global backdrop of political, economic and market instability, IMI management has achieved a record segmental operating performance and adjusted earnings per share growth and upper quartile relative shareholder returns. Achievements in 2011 Year on year 2011 growth % Segmental revenue £2,135m 5%* Segmental operating profit £374.1m 9%* Segmental margin 17.5% n/a Cash conversion 88% n/a EVA £200.6m 22% Adjusted EPS 81.5p 23% *on an organic basis Segmental operating margin 20.0 18.0 17.5% 16.7% 16.0 14.0% 14.0 13.0% 13.1% 12.2% 12.7% 12.0 % 10.5% 10.0 9.2% 9.8% 8.0 7.7% 6.0 4.0 2.0 0.0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The committee is confident that the rewards for this success are appropriate and well-deserved. A review of remuneration decisions and proposals is set out below: • Base salaries: modest increases of up to 2.8% in executive salaries have been made for 2012 taking into account in particular the financial performance of the businesses, economic uncertainties in some of our markets, external benchmarking and internal relativities within the wider senior management team and general employee population. • Annual Incentive Plan: 2011 Annual Incentive Plan weighted as 85% on financial performance and 15% on a range of non-financial measures including personal objectives. The 2012 bonus metrics are confirmed as profit before tax and exceptional items, Group adjusted EPS, organic revenue growth percentage, cash conversion percentage and some non-financial measures, based on health and safety, ethics and compliance and personal objectives. • Risk review: a remuneration strategy and structure risk review was carried out in 2011 with the Independent Advisor to the committee. This review will continue on an annual basis to ensure alignment with strategy and performance drivers. 48 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW • New all-employee global share plans: at the 2011 Annual General Meeting shareholder approval was given for new share plans that will enable employees outside the UK to choose to make regular savings that can be used to buy IMI plc shares at a discounted price. This ability will reinforce the IMI culture across our businesses and emphasise the Group’s combined value. In 2011 the new plans were operated in the USA and Germany and it is planned to expand them into China in 2012. • Renewal of AESOP: approval provided by the committee for a twenty-ninth invitation to be issued to apply for options to be granted in April 2012 under the SAYE. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW • Renewal of the IMI Share Incentive Plan: following the expiry of the authority to satisfy awards under the IMI Employee Share Ownership Plan using new issue shares (following the tenth anniversary of the plan), the committee recommend renewing the plan and refreshing this authority at the 2012 Annual General Meeting. 2. The Remuneration Committee This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. 2.1 Remuneration Committee’s composition The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were Bob Stack (Chairman), Kevin Beeston, Terry Gateley, Anita Frew and Norman Askew, the Company’s non-executive Chairman until his retirement on 31 October 2011, and from 1 June 2011, Roberto Quarta, who became non-executive Chairman on 1 November 2011. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the foregoing non-executive directors were regarded by the Board as independent and both Norman Askew and Roberto Quarta were both considered independent on their respective appointment as Chairman of the Company. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2.2 Remuneration Committee’s role The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration policy and rewards for the executive directors and, in his absence, the Chairman. The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management and has regard to levels of pay across the Group. A copy of the Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference is available from the corporate governance section of the IMI website, where it appears as part of IMI’s Corporate Governance Framework. New terms of reference were adopted in December 2010 which explicitly recognise the committee’s responsibility for considering the risk implications of incentives and the remuneration structure. 2.3 Advice received by the Remuneration Committee The committee consulted the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb, regarding the remuneration policy and the packages of the other executive directors and senior managers. It also received the advice and services of the Finance Director, Douglas Hurt, the Group Human Resources Director, Matt Huckin and the Company Secretary, John O’Shea, who is secretary to the committee. None of these executives was involved in determining their own remuneration. BOARD REPORTS Independent remuneration advisors, New Bridge Street, were again engaged by the committee to provide advice on directors’ remuneration to the committee during 2011. These advisors also attended certain meetings at the request of the committee. During the year, New Bridge Street also provided advice to the Group Human Resources Director in relation to the implementation of the committee’s decisions. The terms of engagement with the committee’s advisors are available on request from the Company Secretary. 2.4 Remuneration advisor tender process During 2011, a tender process was undertaken to select a new advisor for the Remuneration Committee. Invitations to tender were issued to five leading advisory institutions. The tender process consisted of three stages including written submissions, a formal presentation and shortlist discussions with the Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive. The new advisor appointed in February 2012 was confirmed as PwC. 2.5 Chairman’s remuneration FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Chairman’s sole remuneration consists of fees of £250,000 per annum inclusive of all committee and other work. The level of fees was set in connection with the appointment of Roberto Quarta as Chairman, which was effective on 1 November 2011, and no increase for 2012 is proposed. The Chairman is non-executive. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 49 Board Reports remuneration report 2. The Remuneration Committee (continued) 2.6 Non-executive directors’ remuneration The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined, after reference to external benchmarks, by the Chairman and the executive directors. The policy on non-executive remuneration is to pay an appropriate level on a comparative basis for their time and work on the Board and its committees. They do not participate in any bonus or employee share schemes of the Company and no part of their remuneration is conditional upon the performance of the Company. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is shown in the table on page 63. Annual remuneration in 2011 was as follows: • Non-executive director’s fee £52,500. • Additional fee for chairing a committee £10,000. • Additional fee for the senior non-executive director £5,000. • Non-executive director’s fees are reviewed annually but were not increased in 2012. 2.7 Terms of appointment of the Chairman and the non-executive directors Letters of appointment set out the key duties and expectations for the non-executive Chairman and the independent non-executive directors. They include appropriate time commitments, provisions for induction and familiarisation with the businesses and wider senior management team and require approval for other directorships and potential conflicts of interest. The dates and unexpired terms of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors, which are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting and at the Company’s registered office, are as follows: Date of letter Unexpired term Date of appointment of appointment at 01.01.12 as a director K S Beeston 07.01.12 1 year 2 months 08.03.05 A M Frew 07.01.12 1 year 2 months 02.03.06 T M Gateley 01.09.11 1 year 5 months 01.11.03 R Quarta 01.09.11 2 years 5 months 01.06.11 R J Stack 01.09.11 2 years 5 months 13.06.08 The normal period for initial appointment and first renewal is three years. After six years, renewal is usually considered on an annual basis and this currently applies to Kevin Beeston. However, in 2011 Terry Gateley’s term was extended until the Annual General Meeting in 2013, to ensure he continues to be available as senior independent director to support the new Chairman. Appointments are made under a letter of agreement subject to removal under the Company’s articles of association, and all directors will be submitting themselves for annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code. There are no provisions for the Company to give notice or pay compensation in relation to the early termination of the appointment of the Chairman or any non-executive director. There is a provision in the appointment letters to the effect that a non-executive director is normally expected to give at least one month’s prior notice of termination to the Company and, in the case of the Chairman, three months’ notice. 3.0 Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. 3.1 Statement of policy The Company aims to ensure that remuneration generally, and incentives in particular, provide strong alignment between individual performance, business performance and shareholder interests. The remuneration policy also recognises that the Company operates in global and highly competitive markets with the vast majority of its activities outside the UK. The policy is to provide competitive remuneration packages to attract, motivate, reward and retain executives of the calibre required, and to align their interests with those of shareholders by relating a significant element of the remuneration package to performance. During 2011 the committee reviewed the structure and metrics of the incentive arrangements for the executive directors from a risk perspective and concluded that they were aligned with appropriate risk-taking and shareholders’ interests. 50 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Remuneration Committee considers it to be important to maintain the flexibility to respond to individual circumstances. However, its normal approach has been to pay salaries within appropriate market competitive ranges, combined with realistic potential for above-market total compensation if performance is outstanding. In setting the remuneration of each executive director, the Remuneration Committee takes into account their role and responsibilities, skills and individual performance and makes reference to market rates as evidenced by published studies and comparisons with international UK-based groups of a similar size and complexity. In connection with this the committee considered benchmarking data prepared by New Bridge Street. The committee uses such data with caution in GROUP OPERATING REVIEW view of the risk of an upward ratchet of remuneration levels. The Remuneration Committee also has received information about and had regard to pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group. The committee has the discretion to take account of environmental, social and corporate governance matters when setting the remuneration of the executive directors. The policy of the committee is to set performance conditions for incentives which are both stretching but also reasonably attainable in the environment in which the Company is then operating. 3.2 Key elements of executive packages The key elements of the executive packages and their purposes are set out in the table below. Elements of executive packages Purpose Base salary Recognise value of the role and the individual. Annual incentive bonus Performance-based reward for annual performance across RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS a range of financial and non-financial measures. Share Matching Plan Drive share ownership and co-investment of bonus into shares to increase alignment with shareholders’ interests. Performance Share Plan Encourage and reward long-term performance and shareholder value. Pension provision or allowance Allowance or long-term savings arrangement. Benefit in kind and allowances Medical, company car and fuel or allowances, relocation allowances and an allowance for tax advice. 3.3 Base salary Salary reviews for the executive directors are conducted annually with increases, if any, normally effective from 1 January. Salaries are set by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the executive’s role, responsibilities and individual BOARD REPORTS performance and pay conditions elsewhere in the Company and external benchmark data (looking at UK listed companies of similar size, complexity and international presence). The normal policy is to pay salaries within appropriate market competitive ranges for each role. The salaries for the 2011 financial year were reviewed in December 2010 and the committee decided that it was no longer appropriate to continue the freeze adopted since the 2008 review. Increases for January 2012 were agreed in December 2011 to reflect the outstanding financial performance of the Group, uncertain economic conditions, comparative market data and the need to balance internal relativities. The committee made the following changes to take effect from 1 January 2012 as shown in Table A on page 52. In making these decisions the committee took account of the salary increases that have been and will be awarded to employees across all levels and in all parts of the IMI Group. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 51 Board Reports remuneration report 3. Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment (continued) 3.3 Base salary (continued) Table A: Executive Remuneration 2011 and 2012 Element of How this supports the Name/Position Level Performance measures Changes for 2012 Remuneration strategy 31/12/11 1/1/12 and vesting schedule Base Salary Takes account in Chief Executive £720,000 £740,000 • Benchmarked against • Base salary increased by particular the financial M J Lamb companies of a 2.8% from 1 January 2012 performance of the similar size and business, economic Finance Director £395,000 £405,000 complexity and other • Base salary increased by uncertainties and D M Hurt companies in the 2.5% from 1 January 2012 internal relativities same industry sector. within the wider senior Executive Director £330,000 £330,000 • Reviewed annually • Appointed to new position management team, S Toomes from 1 January. on 1 June 2011 as well as the individual performance and personal Executive Director £395,000 £405,000 • Base salary increased by contribution to R M Twite 2.5% from 1 January 2012 delivering the Group strategy. Executive Director £345,000 £345,000 • Appointed to new position I W Whiting on 1 September 2010 Annual Incentive Drives and rewards Chief Executive Maximum of 150% • 2011 bonus metrics • No change in the maximum Bonus performance against of salary (on target were based on 85% award for 2012. annual financial, performance results in a financial performance • For 2012 the performance strategic and payment of 50% of the and 15% on a range measures will encourage operational goals maximum bonus). of non-financial focus on organic growth which are consistent measures including (15%), in place of RoS with the medium to personal objectives. measure which is now an long term strategic • 55% Profit before tax embedded discipline. In needs of the business Finance Director Maximum of 125% and exceptionals, addition an element of also taking into of salary (on target 15% Return on IMI Group bonus will be account individual performance results in a Sales, 15% Cash based on EPS (15%). behaviour and payment of 50% of the Conversion, 5% IMI Non-financial metrics will contribution. maximum bonus). Way, 5% Health & increase from 15% to Safety and 5% 20%. Personal Objectives. Executive Directors Maximum of 115% • Bonus award of salary (on target payments subject to performance results in a ‘Share Ownership payment of 50% of the Guidelines’ (see maximum bonus). Section 3.6 for explanation). Share Ownership Incentivise long term All Executives Shareholding guidelines • All executives met • No change to the Guidelines (SOG) value creation and 125% of salary for all the guidelines at the shareholding guidelines for alignment with Executive Directors. year end. Executives for 2012. shareholder interests. Share Matching Aligns the interest of Chief Executive Investment to maximum • 100% EVA • No proposed changes for Plan (SMP) executives and 100% of annual incentive • 3-year vesting period 2012 to maximum shareholders through opportunity. Matching subject to continued investment levels or level the delivery of awards awards for voluntarily employment and of Company matching. in shares and provides invested shares is 200% achievement of • EVA will be retained for a retention tool for and lower level of match performance 100% of the 2012-14 key executives as is 125%. conditions. award. matching awards and performance share Finance Director Investment to maximum awards are forfeitable 100% of annual incentive on cessation of opportunity. Matching Executive Directors awards for voluntarily employment. invested shares is 200% and lower level of match is 100%. Performance Share All Executives The PSP allows for • 50% Adjusted EPS Given the focus on organic Plan (PSP) share-based awards CAGR % revenue growth, and the worth up to the • 25% TSR (39 acceptance that strong maximum of 100% of member international margin discipline is firmly annual salary. peer group) embedded, in 2012 there will be the following changes to • 25% Return on the performance measures: Operating Capital Employed (RoOCE) 3 • 25% RoOCE will be year average. replaced with 25% Organic revenue growth CAGR %. • 3-year vesting period subject to continued • There are no further employment and changes to the 2012 performance performance conditions. conditions. 52 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW 3.4 Chief Executive’s remuneration The following charts show the fixed and performance-related elements of the Chief Executive’s remuneration at both target and maximum based on the proposed 2012 incentive arrangements (assuming maximum personal investment in the Share Matching Plan and excluding the impact of changes in share price). This supports the committee’s policy that a significant proportion of remuneration should be performance-related and that the Company rewards Executives for investing in and retaining shares within IMI. The mix of remuneration for the other executive directors is broadly comparable, although their maximum bonus potentials are lower. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW The Remuneration Committee considers the quantum of the Chief Executive’s remuneration to be appropriate and commensurate with the growing performance of the Company, changes to the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group and strong alignment with the creation of shareholder value. Chief Executive’s target remuneration Chief Executive’s maximum remuneration 25% Fixed pay 15% Fixed pay (salary) (salary) 75% Variable pay 85% Variable pay (annual incentive bonus (annual incentive bonus and long-term incentive and long-term incentive awards) awards) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 3.5 Annual Incentive Bonus Executive directors participate in an Annual Incentive Bonus (see Table B on page 54). The Annual Incentive Bonus supports the business strategy by driving and rewarding performance against annual financial, strategic and operational goals which are consistent with the medium to long term strategic needs of the business also taking into account individual behaviour and contribution. The 2011 Annual Incentive Bonus metrics were weighted as follows: 85% on financial performance and 15% on a range of non-financial measures including personal objectives. Achievement of the 2011 Annual Incentive Bonus can be seen in Table B on page 54. The structure for the 2012 Annual Incentive Bonus will remain similar to 2011, which has now been in place for several years. However, now that Return on Sales is an embedded discipline and to encourage focus on organic growth, the Return on Sales metric has been replaced with an Organic Revenue Growth metric. A further additional BOARD REPORTS feature for 2012 is the inclusion of Group adjusted EPS within the financial measures. EPS was chosen as an appropriate measure because it rewards absolute growth in underlying earnings. The 2012 Annual Incentive Bonus will be weighted as follows; 80% on financial performance and 20% on a range of non-financial measures including personal objectives. Weighting of Annual Incentive Bonus metrics 2011 Weighting of Annual Incentive Bonus metrics 2012 5% 10% 5% Profit before tax Profit before tax 5% 5% Return on sales Group adjusted EPS 5% 35% Cash conversion Organic revenue 15% growth Health, safety & 15% 55% environment Cash conversion FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15% IMI Way compliance Health, safety & 15% 15% environment Personal objectives IMI Way compliance Personal objectives IMI plc Annual Report 2011 53 Board Reports remuneration report 3. Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment (continued) 3.5 Annual Incentive Bonus (continued) Maximum bonus is only payable if the stretching targets set by the Remuneration Committee are met. All the bonus metrics have a sliding scale calibration and on-target performance will result in a payment of 50% of the maximum bonus. The Annual Incentive Bonus maximum is shown in Table B below. Table B: Annual Incentive Bonus maximum Annual Actual bonus (% of max) Maximum bonus (% of salary) Actual bonus (% of salary) bonus CEO FD Executives CEO FD Executives1 CEO FD Executives1 2011 150% 125% 115% 127% 105% 86% 85% 84% 75% 2010 150% 125% 115% 143% 119% 110% 95% 95% 96% 2009 130% 115% 100% 118% 105% 92% 91% 91% 92% 2008 150% 125% 100% 116% 101% 85% 77% 81% 85% 2007 100% 100% 100% 80% 80% 80% 80% 80% 80% 1 This is the average achievement across all executive directors, excluding the CEO and FD. There are no changes proposed for the 2012 Annual Incentive Bonus maximum. The alignment of Annual Incentive Bonus payments to the executive directors with Group profit before tax is illustrated in the chart below. Profit (£m) Average bonus paid % of maximum award 400 120% 350 100% 300 80% 250 Profit 200 60% % paid 150 40% 100 20% 50 0 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Under the rules of the Executive Retirement Plan (ERP), introduced in 2010, UK-based directors and senior managers were able to waive their bonus entitlement. The Remuneration Committee was then able to choose, at its discretion, to make a contribution into the ERP on their behalf. Following changes to UK tax legislation during 2011, no further contributions will be made. The Remuneration Committee always reserves the right to apply discretion in awarding bonuses and performance shares and may exercise this freedom should an executive not achieve their share ownership guideline within a reasonable period. The committee retains power to reduce or withhold annual bonus payments in exceptional circumstances and in line with best practice it has reserved the power to seek claw-back of bonuses in certain cases where the bonus should not have been paid in the first place (see section 7.1 for further details on discretionary powers). 54 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW 3.6 Share Ownership Guidelines The executive directors and senior executives are subject to share ownership guidelines. To the extent that an individual does not meet their shareholding guideline, up to 50% of the annual bonus award is required to be invested in shares and a matching award will be made under the Share Matching Plan (SMP) (at a lower level of maximum match). If the individual meets the shareholding guideline, then the investment of their bonus in shares is encouraged through participation in the SMP with matching at a higher level. The shareholding guidelines were increased in 2009 to 125% of salary for all the executive directors (to be achieved by GROUP OPERATING REVIEW those in office at the time by 30 June 2011 or, for new appointments, within a five year period after joining the Board). All of the executive directors met the guidelines at the year end. The levels of holdings at the end of 2011 relative to basic salaries (calculated using the average share price in December 2011) were as follows: Executive director Level of share ownership M J Lamb 402% D M Hurt 362% S Toomes 153% R M Twite 226% I W Whiting 633% RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 3.7 Long-Term Incentive Plans The Company operates two long-term share incentive plans for executive directors: The Share Matching Plan (formerly the Deferred Bonus Plan) which is a performance-based investment arrangement; and The Performance Share Plan which is a conventional long-term performance incentive plan. 3.7.1 Share Matching Plan The Share Matching Plan (SMP) runs in conjunction with the Annual Incentive Plan and is linked to the achievement of the share ownership guidelines for executive directors and senior executives. Under the SMP individuals may invest up to 100% of their maximum annual bonus potential into shares; the limit being set on an annual basis by the Remuneration Committee. The committee intends to allow such a level of investment in 2012. By investing in the SMP, matching shares may be earned, which vest after three years, subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions. Current policy is that awards made under the share matching arrangements, where BOARD REPORTS settled in shares, will be satisfied through shares purchased in the market but the committee retains the flexibility to use new issue and treasury shares. Matching awards allow for a higher level of match up to 200% for shares that are purchased through the voluntary investment of bonus or other monies. The lower levels of match up to 125% for the Chief Executive and 100% for other executive directors apply to annual bonus that is to be compulsorily paid in shares, being up to 50% of the bonus according to whether, and if so, the extent to which, an executive has not met their share ownership guideline. The matching share awards are subject to improvement in Economic Value Added (EVA) over a three year period. The calculation of EVA is based on segmental operating profit after tax with appropriate adjustments, less a capital charge on the invested capital in the business reflecting IMI’s cost of capital. Further details of the performance conditions attaching to existing awards are set out in the notes to the table on page 65. The 2008 Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) awards vested in 2011 at 97% of maximum. 2009 SMP awards are due to vest in March 2012 at 95% of maximum. Economic uncertainties at the time of commencing the 2009 plan made it difficult to forecast EVA and led to the 2009 SMP awards being made based on exceptional metrics which included one third total FINANCIAL STATEMENTS shareholder return (on the same relative basis as for the 2009 Performance Share Plan awards), one third profit before tax (measured annually) and one third annual priority targets aligned to annual incentive targets (measured annually). The level of vesting reflects the excellent operational performance over the period and the upper quartile relative total shareholder return against the comparator group. In line with best practice, the committee retains power to claw-back awards in exceptional circumstances (see section 7.1 for further details on discretionary powers). IMI plc Annual Report 2011 55 Board Reports remuneration report 3. Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment (continued) 3.7 Long-Term Incentive Plans (continued) 3.7.2 Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan (PSP) aligns the interest of executives and shareholders through the delivery of awards in shares and provides a retention tool for key executives. The PSP allows for share-based awards worth up to a maximum of 100% of annual salary. The vesting of awards is subject to the satisfaction of stretching performance conditions over a three year period. The current policy is for PSP awards, where settled in shares, to be satisfied through shares purchased in the market but the committee retains the flexibility to use new issue and treasury shares. The 2009 PSP awards are due to vest in March 2012 at 100% of maximum. The performance conditions for the PSP awards are shown below: Grant Vest Performance Conditions Maximum earnings per share (EPS) 50% 2007 2010 relative total shareholder return (TSR) 50% earnings per share (EPS) 50% 2008 2011 relative total shareholder return (TSR) 50% 2009 2012 relative total shareholder return (TSR) 100% return on operating capital employed (RoOCE) 25% 2010 2013 earnings per share (EPS) 50% relative total shareholder return (TSR) 25% return on operating capital employed (RoOCE) 25% 2011 2014 earnings per share (EPS) 50% relative total shareholder return (TSR) 25% organic revenue growth (CAGR) 25% 2012 2015 earnings per share (EPS) 50% relative total shareholder return (TSR) 25% 3.7.2.1 Total Shareholder Return performance condition Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is well understood and accepted as a performance measure for long-term incentives and links rewards to shareholder value. PSP awards granted under the plan in 2009 were also subject to a single performance condition in respect of relative TSR because economic uncertainties made it difficult to set a realistic three year earnings per share target. IMI’s relative TSR performance at the end of the three year performance period ended 31 December 2011 placed it at the top end of the upper quartile of the comparator group and as a result the 2009 PSP awards will vest in full in March 2012. TSR Performance 225% 200% 175% 150% 125% 100% Median to top 25% TSR 75% Company TSR 50% 25% 0% -25% -50% 2009 2010 2011 Three year performance period ended 31 December... 56 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW 25% of the 2011 and intended 2012 PSP awards are subject to a TSR performance condition. TSR is defined as the movement in the share price during the performance period on a local currency basis with adjustments to take into account changes in capital structure and dividends (which are assumed to be reinvested in shares on the ex-dividend date). The vesting schedule for the element of awards subject to the TSR performance condition is as follows: Ranking Vesting Upper quartile (top 25%) or above 100% GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 25% and 100% Median 25% Below median 0% To ensure that TSR reflects improvement in the underlying performance of the Company the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the financial performance of the Company over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as calculated under the TSR condition. In the event that the Remuneration Committee is not satisfied in this respect on the vesting of a PSP award it has committed to disclose the factors that it reviewed and give a commentary on the exercise of its overriding discretion. The TSR comparator groups for awards made in 2008 to 2011 are shown below: Name Country* Name Country* RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Amada Japan Johnson Matthey United Kingdom Atlas Copco A Sweden Manitowoc United States BBA Aviation United Kingdom Meggitt United Kingdom Bodycote International United Kingdom Metso Corporation Finland Borgwarner United States NSK Japan Cobham United Kingdom Parker-Hannifin United States Cookson Group United Kingdom Pentair United States Eaton United States Rotork United Kingdom Emerson Electric United States Sandvik Sweden BOARD REPORTS Fanuc Japan Seco Tools B Sweden Flowserve Corp United States SKF B Sweden GKN United Kingdom SMC Japan Halma United Kingdom Spectris United Kingdom Heidelberg Druck Germany Spirax-Sarco Engineering United Kingdom Honeywell United States Sulzer AG Switzerland IDEX Corp United States THK Japan Illinois Tool Works United States Tyco International United States Ingersoll-Rand United States Weir Group United Kingdom FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Invensys United Kingdom Yaskawa Electric Japan * Country is shown as country of primary listing. Note: Enodis, Tomkins, FKI and Charter had been included in the comparator group but delisted between 2008 and 2011. The 2012 comparator group will be the same as it was in 2011 subject to any delisting. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 57 Board Reports remuneration report 3. Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment (continued) 3.7.2.1 Total Shareholder Return performance condition (continued) The graph below compares the Company’s total shareholder return over the five years ended 31 December 2011 with that of the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index and the FTSE All Share Index. The FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index was chosen as a comparator index because it is the industry share index in which the Company is classified and provides a reasonable benchmark for assessment of its relative performance. The FTSE All Share Index was chosen as it is a relevant broad equity market index. Over the past five years the total shareholder return has underperformed the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Sector Index by 24.6% and outperformed the FTSE All Share Index by 94.4%. 250 200 150 100 50 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 IMI plc FTSE All Share / Industrial Engineering SEC FTSE All Share 3.7.2.2 EPS performance condition EPS was chosen as an appropriate measure because it rewards absolute growth in underlying earnings and because the Remuneration Committee believed it worked well in combination with TSR which is a comparative measure. The performance condition for one half of the 2011 PSP awards and the intended 2012 PSP awards will be based on the Company’s compound annual earnings per share growth over a three-year period. The Remuneration Committee sets the EPS targets in respect of each annual award at the level it considers appropriately stretching given the conditions in which the Company is operating. The vesting schedule for the awards subject to the EPS performance condition proposed to be granted in 2012, which is the same as for the 2011 awards, is as follows: Compound EPS growth Vesting 15% per annum 100% Between 6% and 15% per annum Pro-rata between 25% and 100% 6% per annum 25% Less than 6% per annum 0% As for 2011 awards, the EPS measure for intended 2012 PSP awards will be based on adjusted basic earnings per share which includes adjustment for the elimination of the after tax cost of restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation and impairment, financial instruments, but including economic hedge contract gains and losses, and excluding any other items meeting the definition of an exceptional item as defined in the Group Accounting Policies. 58 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW 3.7.2.3 Return on Operating Capital Employed performance condition Return on Operating Capital Employed (RoOCE) was adopted as a performance measure for a portion of PSP awards in 2010 to incentivise sustained working capital improvement. The vesting of the other 25% of the 2011 PSP award will depend on IMI’s average RoOCE over the three years from the year of grant. For 2011 awards RoOCE has been defined to exclude intangible assets and calibrated as follows: Average RoOCE Vesting GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 85% 100% Between 65% and 85% Pro-rata between 25% and 100% 65% 25% Less than 65% 0% Given the focus on organic revenue growth, and the acceptance that strong margin discipline is firmly embedded across the Company for the 2012 PSP grant the RoOCE element will be replaced with a 3-year compound growth in organic revenue. 3.7.2.4 Organic revenue growth % (2012 PSP performance condition) Organic revenue growth % (CAGR) is being adopted for the 2012 PSP to encourage focus on organic growth. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Average CAGR % Vesting +8% 100% Between +2.7% and +8% Pro-rata between 25% and 100% +2.7% 25% Less than 2.7% 0% Details of the awards made under the PSP are contained in the table of directors’ awards on page 64. In line with best practice, the committee retains power to claw-back awards in exceptional circumstances (see section 7.1 for further details on discretionary powers). 4. All Employee Share Plans BOARD REPORTS This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. 4.1 UK SAYE plan The Company operates a HM Revenue and Customs approved savings-related share option scheme which is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including the UK-based executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to use their own money to purchase shares in their employer’s business or group. 4.2 Share Incentive Plan (SIP) UK executive directors also participate in an All Employee Share Ownership Plan which is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees. Subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of a new plan to replace the expired original, shares to a value equal to the lesser of £3,000 and 0.6% of each participant’s basic salary FINANCIAL STATEMENTS will be acquired in 2012 at market value by the Trustee of the plan in respect of their participation during 2011. The plan is not operated subject to specific performance conditions. Eligible employees are able to invest up to £1,500 annually in a tax-efficient manner in purchasing partnership shares under the plan. Each of the UK executive directors makes the maximum contribution from their salary towards partnership shares under the plan. Matching shares may be awarded in respect of partnership shares acquired under the plan although the policy to date has been not to award any matching shares. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 59 Board Reports remuneration report 4. All Employee Share Plans (continued) 4.3 Global Employee Share Purchase Plans New ‘all-employee’ share plans intended to encourage employee investment in IMI shares were approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting and save as you earn type plans were launched in the USA and Germany with extension into China planned for 2012. 4.4 Share Option Plan A share option plan for senior employees was established in 2009 and shareholder approval of this plan was given at the 2011 Annual General Meeting in order to introduce the flexibility to satisfy awards using new issue and treasury shares. No directors or others who receive PSP awards receive such share options. 5. Share dilution This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. The Association of British Insurers has set recommended guidelines on the number of new issue and treasury shares that can be used under a company’s share plans. The guidelines are 10% of the issued share capital in any 10 year period for all share plans, with an inner limit of 5% in 10 years for executive schemes. IMI operates within these limits and its standing as at 31 December 2011 was 2.90% and 1.79% respectively. 6. Pension entitlement This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. The IMI Pension Fund was closed to all employees in respect of future service from 31 December 2010 and alternative pension arrangements were established including an Executive Retirement Plan (ERP), which was intended to be a tax efficient long-term savings vehicle for UK senior managers to save for retirement outside the registered pensions regime. Discretionary contributions were made to the ERP in 2010 and 2011 but it has been rendered tax ineffective for future contributions and possible alternative provisions are being kept under review. 6.1 Pension benefits provided for 2011 service Under the rules of the ERP which was introduced in 2010, UK based directors and senior managers were able to waive their pension benefits and bonus entitlements. The Remuneration Committee was then able to choose, at its discretion, to make a contribution into the ERP on their behalf, which is an unregistered defined contribution arrangement structured as an offshore trust. Such contributions to the ERP in respect of executive directors are determined on a basis that is intended to be cost neutral to the Company. At the 2010 AGM shareholders approved changes to the rules of the SMP and PSP that permit these awards to be settled in the form of employer contributions to the ERP. Following changes to UK tax legislation during 2011, no further contributions will be made. Executive directors are entitled to receive a taxable cash allowance instead of pension benefits. With the Remuneration Committee’s approval the executive directors may, at their discretion, redirect part or all of their allowance into any defined contribution pension arrangement in the country in which they are contracted. The value of the pension allowance for 2011 can be viewed below. Value of pension allowance M J Lamb £252,000 (35% of salary) D M Hurt £138,250 (35% of salary) R M Twite £133,117 (35% of salary) I W Whiting £120,750 (35% of salary) S Toomes £67,375 (35% of salary since appointment) To reflect particular requirements in Switzerland, the Company is establishing a pension arrangement there for S Toomes. The details of this arrangement are being finalised, but it is expected to be mainly defined-contribution in nature, although there will be a defined benefit element as is required by law in Switzerland. The Company contributions to this arrangement will be deducted from the pension allowance described above (and the contributions will be less than the 60 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW pension allowance), it is expected the arrangement will be backdated to 1 June 2011 and further details will be included in next year’s report. 6.2 Pension benefits for past service M J Lamb, R M Twite and S Toomes were previously active members of the defined benefit IMI Pension Fund. M J Lamb opted out with effect from 6 April 2006; R M Twite opted out with effect from 1 February 2007 and S Toomes from 31 August 2010. As a result they retain past pensionable service up to these dates and the value of this is shown in the table on page 66. The nature of these benefits is more complicated than the pension benefits provided in respect of GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 2011, but the key elements are summarised below: • The normal retirement age under the Fund is 60 for M J Lamb, and 62 for R M Twite and S Toomes. M J Lamb may elect to retire from employment with IMI and receive a pension at any time after age 57 without any actuarial discount, and R M Twite and S Toomes may retire from employment with IMI any time after age 60 without actuarial discount. • On death after retirement, a dependant’s pension is provided equal to two-thirds of the member’s pension for M J Lamb and 50% of the member’s pension for R M Twite and S Toomes. • Should M J Lamb die within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum is also paid equal to the balance of five years’ pension payments. For R M Twite and S Toomes, the dependant’s pension is increased to 100% of the member’s pension for the remainder of the five year period. • Pensions in payment, in excess of any guaranteed minimum pension, are increased each year in line with price inflation up to a maximum of 5% in respect of pension built up before 1 January 2006, and 2.5% in respect of pension built up after 1 January 2006. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS • M J Lamb’s past pension benefits generally continue to be linked to final salary inflation (averaged over the past three years) and equivalent benefits to those provided for under the Fund rules immediately prior to closure are preserved in relation to ill-health retirement, death in service and early retirement at the Company’s instance. The difference between these benefits and those automatically provided under the Fund, the EPM benefits, will be assessed as at 31 December 2011 and each subsequent year end until death in service, retirement on ill-health grounds or retirement at the Company’s instance and there may be a payment to the Fund (to augment Fund benefits) or a payment in lieu to M J Lamb (or his estate) or by way of contribution to the ERP or another pension arrangement shortly after each year end until a final augmentation or payment is made following death in service or relevant early retirement event. As at 31 December 2011 no EPM benefits were payable. I W Whiting is eligible for benefits under three arrangements in the USA. The first is a defined contribution arrangement, the IMI 401(k) Plan. The second is a defined benefit arrangement, the Control Components Inc Employees’ Pension Plan. His pension from this plan is payable from age 65 without further increase. The third is also a defined benefit arrangement, the IMI Americas Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. His pension from this plan is payable from age 65, subject BOARD REPORTS to completion of 10 years’ service with the Group, without further increase. On retirement I W Whiting has the option of exchanging part of his pension to provide for a spouse’s pension payable on his death after retirement. The policy regarding pension arrangements for new executive director appointments will be flexible to take account of the individual position, the cost of pension arrangements to the Company, including in particular the cost of defined benefits, and the alternative forms of pension provision. However, the norm would be not to offer defined benefits to new executive directors. 7. Termination Clauses This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. Consistent with the policy on service contracts, the executive directors’ service contracts are subject to termination on one year’s notice by the Company or the executive directors. Contractual retirement age for UK-based executive directors is 65 and for Switzerland-based executive directors, 60. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These contracts do not include any specific provision for compensation payable upon early termination save that, as a consequence of the closure of the IMI Pension Fund on 31 December 2010, the Company has made alternative contractual arrangements in lieu of certain contractual entitlements to pension benefits, which, but for the closure, would have been provided through the IMI Pension Fund to all members in the same membership category as the Chief Executive. The alternative contractual arrangements for all these members include augmentation of Fund benefits (to the level that would have been provided save for the closure) or payment in lieu in respect of benefits arising on early IMI plc Annual Report 2011 61 Board Reports remuneration report 7. Termination Clauses (continued) retirement by reason of redundancy or other termination at the Company’s instance. Had such benefits arisen for the Chief Executive as at 31 December 2011, the estimated cash cost to the Company would have been approximately £5.1m. The payment in lieu computation is designed to be neutral to the Company on a net of tax basis and compared with the cash contributions that would otherwise have been expected to provide the benefits through the Fund. It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee to limit any compensation which might be paid in the event of early termination of an executive director’s contract to the legal minimum, taking into account mitigation and other relevant factors. The dates of the contracts and period to normal retirement age for those serving as executive directors during the year are as follows: Date of Date of Period to legal Date joined appointment service retirement age as Group to Board contract Notice period at 31.12.11 M J Lamb 31.10.86 18.07.96 01.01.11 12 months 13 years D M Hurt 01.05.06 01.07.06 01.10.06 12 months 9 years 5 months S Toomes 18.02.85 01.06.11 01.09.11 12 months 21 years 5 months R M Twite 26.09.88 01.02.07 01.02.07 12 months 20 years 5 months I W Whiting 18.07.05 01.09.10 01.01.10 12 months 17 years 7.1 Discretionary Powers The committee retains power to reduce or withhold Annual Incentive Bonus payments and awards under the long-term incentive share plans in exceptional circumstances (as described below). In line with best practice it has also reserved the power to seek claw-back of bonuses in certain cases where the bonus should not have been paid in the first place. Claw-back conditions feature in all incentive share plan schemes and annual incentive bonus rules. Exceptional circumstances would include the requirement to restate the accounts of the Company’s group, for example, for a correction of an error as defined by IAS8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’, in circumstances where, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the original overstatement in the accounts has resulted, or would result, either directly or indirectly, in either a participant’s awards vesting or Annual Incentive Bonus result, to a greater degree than would have been the case had that misstatement not been made; or where a participant is found guilty of any serious criminal offence (as determined in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee) arising out of or in connection with the participant’s office or employment with a participating company. 8. External appointments This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. Executive directors may accept one external appointment with the consent of the Board, and are normally allowed to retain fees from external non-executive directorships. M J Lamb was appointed a non-executive director of Severn Trent Water plc on 29 February 2008 and received fees in the year to 31 December 2011 of £46,350 (2010: £42,500). D M Hurt was appointed as a non-executive director of Tate & Lyle plc on 10 March 2010 and received fees in the year to 31 December 2011 of £55,800 (2010: £39,682). 62 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW 9. Summary of directors’ remuneration This section of the Remuneration Report is required to be audited. Sums by way Bonus and pension Salary Non-cash of taxable allowance and fees benefits allowances Bonus 2011 Total 2011 Total 2010 waived 20102 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Non-executive GROUP OPERATING REVIEW N B M Askew1 163 163 195 K S Beeston 53 53 45 A M Frew 53 53 45 T M Gateley 68 68 60 R Quarta1 64 64 R J Stack 63 63 55 Executive D M Hurt 395 4 157 416 972 403 534 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS M J Lamb 720 5 273 914 1,912 830 1,020 S Toomes1 193 5 172 187 557 R M Twite3 380 4 150 387 921 530 325 I W Whiting 345 13 267 216 841 304 Total 2,497 31 1,019 2,120 5,667 2,467 1,879 1 S Toomes became a director on 1 June 2011. N B M Askew retired as a director on 31 October 2011. R Quarta was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 June 2011 and as Chairman from 1 November 2011. 2 M J Lamb, D M Hurt and R M Twite waived all or part of their 2010 bonus entitlement and pension allowance. The Company made discretionary contributions into the Executive Retirement Plan as disclosed in last year’s annual report. BOARD REPORTS 3 R M Twite’s salary increased from £373,000 to £395,000 on 1 September 2011. Non-executive remuneration shown above of £464,000 (2010: £400,000) represents fees rather than salary. No compensation for loss of office was paid to or receivable by any director in 2011. Benefits in kind provided to executive directors consist of the provision of private health care arrangements and all employee share ownership plan awards. All executive directors elected for a cash alternative, instead of a company car. Sums paid by way of taxable allowances in the above table include cash allowances in lieu of company car, certain pension benefits and tax assistance. Relocation allowances were provided to S Toomes and I W Whiting in respect of their moves to Switzerland. 10. Directors’ share awards This section of the Remuneration Report is required to be audited. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Share awards/options are outstanding under the following schemes: UK SAYE IMI Savings-Related Share Option Scheme PSP Performance Share Plan SMP Share Matching Plan (formerly DBP) SOP Share Option Plan US SAYE IMI US Stock Purchase Plan 2011 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 63 Board Reports remuneration report 10. Directors’ share awards (continued) 10.1 Table of SAYE, PSP and SOP awards As at 01.01.11 Perf(or date During the year As at Mid ormof app31.12.11 Date market ance Date of oint(or date of from which price at condgrant/ Award ment Exercised retirement exercisable/ Expiry Date of date of Director Scheme ition award price* if later) Granted / vested Lapsed if earlier) vesting date date exercise exercise M J Lamb UK SAYE a) 09.04.09 201.36p 4,544 4,544 01.08.12 31.01.13 PSP b) 04.04.08 473.58p 138,500 158,977+ Nil 28.03.11 04.04.18 28.03.11 1016.00p c) 11.03.09 229.50p 285,800 285,800 11.03.12 11.03.19 d) 07.05.10 679.00p 96,600 96,600 22.03.13 22.03.20 d) 10.03.11 956.17p Nil 75,300 75,300 10.03.14 10.03.21 D M Hurt UK SAYE a) 09.04.09 201.36p 7,772 7,772 01.08.14 31.01.15 PSP b) 04.04.08 473.58p 76,000 87,235+ Nil 28.03.11 04.04.18 28.03.11 1016.00p c) 11.03.09 229.50p 156,800 156,800 11.03.12 11.03.19 d) 07.05.10 679.00p 53,000 53,000 22.03.13 22.03.20 d) 10.03.11 956.17p Nil 41,300 41,300 10.03.14 10.03.21 R M Twite UK SAYE a) 09.04.09 201.36p 4,544 4,544 01.08.12 31.01.13 PSP b) 04.04.08 473.58p 71,500 82,069+ Nil 28.03.11 04.04.18 28.03.11 1016.00p c) 11.03.09 229.50p 148,100 148,100 11.03.12 11.03.19 d) 07.05.10 679.00p 50,100 50,100 22.03.13 22.03.20 d) 10.03.11 956.17p Nil 39,000 39,000 10.03.14 10.03.21 I W Whiting US SAYE a) 19.12.11 631.85p Nil 977 977 25.08.13 18.03.14 PSP b) 04.04.08 473.58p 30,000 34,434+ Nil 28.03.11 04.04.18 28.03.11 1016.00p b) 03.10.08 376.25p 9,900 11,276+ Nil 03.10.11 03.10.18 23.12.11 746.50p d) 10.03.11 956.17p Nil 36,000 36,000 10.03.14 10.03.21 SOP e) 03.09.09 440.93p 120,000 120,000 03.09.12 03.09.19 e) 22.03.10 645.00p 75,000 75,000 22.03.13 22.03.20 S Toomes PSP d) 10.03.11 956.17p 21,100 21,100 10.03.14 10.03.21 SOP e) 03.09.09 440.93p 90,000 90,000 03.09.12 03.09.19 e) 22.03.10 645.00p 57,500 57,500 22.03.13 22.03.20 During the year + This includes dividends paid in shares on the vested portion over the three year period. a) No performance conditions are attached to the SAYE options. b) 50% of the 2008 awards were based on comparative TSR (subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied that the relative TSR position reflects underlying performance) with vesting at median (25% vests) to upper quartile (full vesting), and the remaining 50% on EPS growth of between 6% per annum (25% vests) to 15% per annum (full vesting) over the three-year performance period. 2008 PSP awards vested in 2011 at maximum. c) 2009 awards were entirely based on comparative TSR with the vesting scale as described in b) above and will vest in 2012 at maximum. d) 2010 and 2011 awards were based on TSR and EPS measures with the vesting scales as described in b) above for 25% and 50% of awards, respectively, and, as to the other 25%, upon RoOCE with vesting on a linear scale from 24% (originally 25% before adjustment made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J) of maximum to maximum for RoOCE of between 24% and 30% (originally 25% and 32% before adjustments made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J). e) SOP awards shown were made to I W Whiting and S Toomes prior to their appointment as executive directors and are not subject to performance conditions. Executive directors are not eligible to participate in the SOP. * The award price is the exercise price for awards structured as options and the price used to calculate the number of shares for PSP awards to UK participants in the PSP which are structured as deferred share awards or nil cost options and, in each case, is determined by reference to an average middle market quotation without discount. The closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2011 was £7.60 per share and the closing price range during the year was £6.36 to £11.19. 64 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW 10.2 Table of SMP awards As at 01.01.11 Mid (or date During the year As at Mid market of app31.12.11 Date market PerformDate of price at oint(or date of from which Date of price at ance grant/ date of ment Exercised/ retirement exercisable/ exercise/ date of Director condition award award if later) Granted vested Lapsed if earlier) vesting date vesting exercise M J Lamb a) 04.04.08 461.75p 66,100 78,174+ 1,983 Nil 28.03.11 28.03.11 1016.00p GROUP OPERATING REVIEW b) 01.06.09 357.75p 690,359 690,359 26.03.12 c) 07.05.10 640.50p 330,090 330,090 22.03.13 d) 28.03.11 1016.00p Nil 212,530 212,530 28.03.14 D M Hurt a) 04.04.08 461.75p 28,300 33,956+ 849 Nil 28.03.11 28.03.11 1016.00p b) 01.06.09 357.75p 174,917 174,917 26.03.12 c) 07.05.10 640.50p 160,246 160,246 22.03.13 d) 28.03.11 1016.00p Nil 97,190 97,190 28.03.14 R M Twite a) 04.04.08 461.75p 49,702 61,158+ 1,491 Nil 28.03.11 28.03.11 1016.00p b) 01.06.09 357.75p 146,645 146,645 26.03.12 c) 07.05.10 640.50p 131,602 131,602 22.03.13 d) 28.03.11 1016.00p Nil 84,448 84,448 28.03.14 I W Whiting a) 04.04.08 461.75p 24,446 31,672+ 733 Nil 28.03.11 28.03.11 1016.00p b) 01.06.09 357.75p 122,370 122,370 26.03.12 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS c) 07.05.10 640.50p 63,729 63,729 22.03.13 d) 28.03.11 1016.00p Nil 72,238 72,238 28.03.14 S Toomes b) 01.06.09 357.75p 62,367 62,367 26.03.12 c) 07.05.10 640.50p 34,487 34,487 22.03.13 d) 28.03.11 1016.00p 35,109 35,109 28.03.14 + This includes dividends paid in shares on the vested portion over the three-year period. a) The applicable performance measure was EVA over the years 2008-2010. Vesting was tiered (with linear progression in each band) as follows: 0% to 20% of maximum (maximum being a 125% match for the Chief Executive and a 100% match for other executive directors) for positive EVA of up to £200m, 20% to 50% for £200m to £290m, 50% to 85% for £290m to £380m and 85% to 100% for £380m to £400m EVA. 2008 SMP awards vested in March 2011 at 97% of maximum. b) Performance measures for 2009 SMP awards were exceptional, and included one third TSR (on the same basis as for the 2009 PSP awards), one third profit before tax (measured annually) and one third annual priority targets (measured annually). The annual priority targets were weighted equally, in 2009 between cash conversion and profit drop through and, in 2010 and 2011, between cash BOARD REPORTS conversion and return on sales. 2009 SMP awards will vest in 2012 at 95% of maximum. c) The performance measure for 2010 SMP awards was EVA over the years 2010 to 2012. Vesting is tiered (with linear progression in each band) as follows: 0% to 25% of maximum for positive EVA of up to £235m, 25% to 50% for £235m to £335m, 50% to 75% for £335m to £369m (originally £395m before adjustment made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J) and 75% to 100% for between £369m (originally £395m before adjustment made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J) and £475m. d) The performance measure for 2011 SMP awards was compound annual growth in EVA over the years 2011 to 2013 compared to EVA in the preceding 3 years. No awards will vest if compound annual growth in EVA is negative. 10% of awards vest for positive compound annual growth over the period, with subsequent vesting being tiered (with linear progression in each band) as follows: 10% to 25% vesting for compound annual growth between 0% and 6% and 25% to 100% vesting for compound annual growth of between 6% and 17%. 10.3 Awards under the legacy IMI Deferred Share Plan 2002 Purchase price Number of Mid-market * Date of DSP for initial shares initial shares Matching price at Director award (per share) purchased award Release date release date FINANCIAL STATEMENTS M J Lamb 04.04.08 465.37p 37,225 9,306 28.03.11 1016.00p R M Twite 04.04.08 465.37p 16,872 4,218 28.03.11 1016.00p * No performance conditions were attached to DSP awards which were made following mandatory reinvestments into the DSP of cash payments under a defunct long-term incentive scheme under which no other awards remain outstanding. The final 2008 awards vested in March 2011. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 65 Board Reports remuneration report 11. Summary of directors’ pension arrangements This section of the Remuneration Report is required to be audited. Details of the pension benefits earned in the IMI Pension Fund or, in relation to Ian Whiting, the Control Components Inc Employees’ Pension Plan and the IMI Americas Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan are summarised in the following table: Difference Increase Value of Transfer Transfer between in accrued increase value of value of transfer Increase pension in accrued Accrued accrued accrued values at in accrued over the pension at Pensionable pension pension pension 31.12.103 pension year 31.12.11 Age at service to at at at and over the (net of (net of 31.12.11 31.12.11 31.12.111 2 31.12.11 31.12.10 3 31.12.11 year 2 inflation) inflation) Director Years Years £000 pa £000 £000 £000 £000 pa £000 pa £000 M J Lamb 51 20 310 6,424 5,290 1,134 15 S Toomes 4 43 24 69 849 746 103 1 n/a n/a R M Twite 44 18 61 786 650 136 3 I W Whiting 5 47 5 38 187 137 50 1 Pensionable service ceased with effect from 6 April 2006 for M J Lamb, 1 February 2007 for R M Twite, 31 August 2010 for S Toomes and 1 September 2010 for I W Whiting. 2 For M J Lamb and R M Twite the increase in the accrued pension during the year reflects the increase under the IMI Pension Fund, which is generally in line with inflation. No allowance has been made for the value of benefits that may be derived by the payment of additional voluntary contributions. 3 Or as at date of appointment if later. 4 S Toomes was appointed as a director on 1 June 2011 and the figures shown in the table relate to the period from 1 June 2011 to 31 December 2011. As S Toomes has been a director for less than one year the increase in accrued pension relative to (annual) inflation and the value of this increase relative to (annual) inflation is not applicable. 5 Figures have been converted using exchange rates of £1:$1.55 as at 31 December 2011 (£1:$1.57 as at 31 December 2010). Due to rounding the pension shown as at 31 December 2011 is £1,000 pa higher than that previously shown at 31 December 2010. The actual increase is less than £500 pa and this is entirely due to the change in exchange rates over the year as in $ terms I W Whiting’s pension has not changed over the year. The transfer values that would be payable from the IMI Pension Fund at the relevant date are also shown in the table, together with the transfer value (at the end of the year) of the increase in the accrued pension over the year (net of inflation). The transfer value shown is the estimated capital value of the future pension payments in retirement, determined by the Fund’s Trustee in accordance with the appropriate statutory requirements. In respect of I W Whiting’s benefits under US pension arrangements, the transfer value quoted is based on the method and assumptions used by the Company to account for the costs associated with its US defined benefit pension schemes (see note 19 to the financial statements on pages 108 to 114). Under the method and assumptions used by the Company to account for the costs associated with its defined benefit pension schemes, the aggregate value of the accrued benefits as at 31 December 2011 for the executive directors was £11.77m (2010: £8.96m). 66 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW 12. Directors’ interests This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. The interests (all being beneficial) of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company are shown below: Director during Interest as at 31.12.11 Interest as at 01.01.11 2011 Shares held or date of retirement if earlier or date of appointment if later N B M Askew Ordinary shares 10,000 10,000 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW K S Beeston Ordinary shares 20,000 20,000 A M Frew Ordinary shares 7,500 7,500 T M Gateley Ordinary shares 7,500 7,500 D M Hurt Ordinary shares+ 193,928 186,243 M J Lamb Ordinary shares+ 390,834 411,574 R Quarta* Ordinary shares R J Stack Ordinary shares 15,000 15,000 S Toomes* Ordinary shares 68,049 68,049 R M Twite Ordinary shares+ 121,757 146,605 I W Whiting Ordinary shares+ 292,033 214,651 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS + Including shares held within company share plans. * R Quarta and S Toomes became directors on 1 June 2011. During the period 31 December 2011 to 1 March 2012 there were no changes in the interests of any current director from those shown save for purchases within the IMI All Employee Share Ownership Plan on 10 January 2012 of 15 shares on behalf of each of M J Lamb and R M Twite and 16 shares on behalf of D M Hurt at 808.5p per share and 14 February 2012 of 14 shares on behalf of M J Lamb and R M Twite and 13 shares on behalf of D M Hurt at 916p per share. Approved by the Board on 1 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by: Bob J Stack Chairman of the Remuneration Committee BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 67 Board Reports Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Directors’ Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Under company law the directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing those Group financial statements, the directors are required to: • select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ and then apply them consistently; • make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; • present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; • provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group’s financial position and financial performance; and • state that the Company has complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements. The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors must not approve the parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; • make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; • state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and • prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Directors’ responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors listed on pages 36 and 37 confirms that: • the Group and parent company financial statements in this annual report, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and • the management report (which comprises the Directors’ Report and the business review) includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. By order of the Board John O’Shea Company Secretary 1 March 2012 68 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditor’s report to the members of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 We have audited the Group financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 27. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as GROUP OPERATING REVIEW a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 68, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: • Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended; • Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and • Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements. Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: • Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or BOARD REPORTS • We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: • The directors’ statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going concern; and • The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and • Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration. Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. John C Flaherty (Senior statutory auditor) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 1 March 2012 The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 Notes 2011 2010 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 2,3,4 2,135 (4) 2,131 1,917 (6) 1,911 Segmental operating profit 2 374.1 374.1 319.7 319.7 Reversal of economic hedge contract gains 2 (4.1) (4.1) (2.7) (2.7) Restructuring costs 2,4 (23.5) (23.5) (16.0) (16.0) Acquired intangible amortisation 11 (32.3) (32.3) (7.0) (7.0) Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme 19 15.1 15.1 Operating profit 2,3,4 374.1 (59.9) 314.2 319.7 (10.6) 309.1 Financial income 6 3.3 13.9 17.2 5.2 20.5 25.7 Financial expense 6 (20.2) (16.0) (36.2) (20.5) (8.2) (28.7) Net finance credit relating to defined benefit pension schemes 19 6.2 6.2 Net financial (expense)/income 6 (10.7) (2.1) (12.8) (15.3) 12.3 (3.0) Profit before tax 7 363.4 (62.0) 301.4 304.4 1.7 306.1 Taxation 8 (101.8) 4.1 (97.7) (91.3) (1.2) (92.5) Profit for the year from continuing operations 261.6 (57.9) 203.7 213.1 0.5 213.6 Profit from operations discontinued in prior years 5 12.8 12.8 Total profit for the year 261.6 (57.9) 203.7 213.1 13.3 226.4 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 200.4 224.7 Non-controlling interests 3.3 1.7 Profit for the year 203.7 226.4 Earnings per share 9 Basic from profit for the year 63.2p 70.4p Diluted from profit for the year 62.1p 69.4p Basic from continuing operations 63.2p 66.4p Diluted from continuing operations 62.1p 65.4p 70 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 £m £m £m £m Profit for the year 203.7 226.4 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Change in fair value of effective net investment hedge derivatives 1.9 (6.5) Income tax effect on above (0.5) 1.8 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of GROUP OPERATING REVIEW hedge settlements and funding revaluations (9.7) 16.9 Income tax effect on above 0.3 (0.9) (8.0) 11.3 Fair value gain/(loss) on available for sale financial assets 1.2 (2.5) Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans (84.8) (22.2) Income tax effect on above 15.5 3.4 (69.3) (18.8) Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax (76.1) (10.0) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 127.6 216.4 Attributable to: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Owners of the parent 123.9 214.4 Non-controlling interests 3.7 2.0 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 127.6 216.4 BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2011 Restated (note 1) Notes 2011 2010 £m £m Assets Intangible assets 11 497.2 519.3 Property, plant and equipment 12 248.3 241.3 Employee benefit assets 19 1.9 1.6 Deferred tax assets 13 75.7 56.3 Other receivables 5.5 4.9 Other financial assets 18 4.9 7.0 Total non-current assets 833.5 830.4 Inventories 14 323.6 288.0 Trade and other receivables 15 388.1 345.2 Other current financial assets 18 7.2 12.3 Current tax 12.1 4.8 Investments 18 20.4 19.2 Cash and cash equivalents 18 147.9 122.9 Total current assets 899.3 792.4 Total assets 1,732.8 1,622.8 Liabilities Bank overdraft 18 (0.4) (2.5) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 16, 18 (13.3) (13.2) Provisions 21 (21.6) (13.9) Current tax (31.4) (36.8) Trade and other payables 17 (484.1) (422.8) Other current financial liabilities 18 (7.1) (4.6) Total current liabilities (557.9) (493.8) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 16, 18 (242.4) (252.6) Employee benefit obligations 19 (205.7) (201.0) Provisions 21 (33.2) (47.4) Deferred tax liabilities 13 (39.6) (20.5) Other payables (39.8) (31.7) Total non-current liabilities (560.7) (553.2) Total liabilities (1,118.6) (1,047.0) Net assets 614.2 575.8 Equity Share capital 22 85.0 85.0 Share premium 169.3 168.1 Other reserves 59.0 67.4 Retained earnings 251.5 205.2 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 564.8 525.7 Non-controlling interests 49.4 50.1 Total equity 614.2 575.8 Approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by: Roberto Quarta Chairman 72 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2011 Share Capital Total NonShare premium redemption Hedging Translation Retained parent controlling Total capital account reserve reserve reserve earnings equity interests equity £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m As at 1 January 2010 84.9 166.6 7.9 7.4 41.1 91.9 399.8 2.2 402.0 Profit for the year 224.7 224.7 1.7 226.4 Other comprehensive income (4.7) 15.7 (21.3) (10.3) 0.3 (10.0) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Total comprehensive income (4.7) 15.7 203.4 214.4 2.0 216.4 Issue of share capital 0.1 1.5 1.6 1.6 Dividends paid (70.9) (70.9) (0.5) (71.4) Share based payments (net of tax) 10.3 10.3 10.3 Shares acquired for employee share scheme trust (29.5) (29.5) (29.5) Investment in partnership by UK Pension Fund 48.6 48.6 Income earned by partnership (2.2) (2.2) At 31 December 2010 85.0 168.1 7.9 2.7 56.8 205.2 525.7 50.1 575.8 Changes in equity in 2011 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Profit for the year 200.4 200.4 3.3 203.7 Other comprehensive income 1.4 (9.8) (68.1) (76.5) 0.4 (76.1) Total comprehensive income 1.4 (9.8) 132.3 123.9 3.7 127.6 Issue of share capital 1.2 1.2 1.2 Dividends paid (88.8) (88.8) (88.8) Share based payments (net of tax) 10.6 10.6 10.6 Shares acquired for employee share scheme trust (7.8) (7.8) (7.8) Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) At 31 December 2011 85.0 169.3 7.9 4.1 47.0 251.5 564.8 49.4 614.2 BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2011 Restated 2011 2010 £m £m Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the year from continuing operations 203.7 213.6 Adjustments for: Depreciation 43.6 44.8 (Reversal of impairment)/impairment of property, plant and equipment (2.5) 3.4 Amortisation 36.4 11.4 Impairment of intangible assets 0.4 Loss/(gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 (2.9) Loss on disposal of investments 0.1 Financial income (17.2) (25.7) Financial expense 36.2 28.7 Net finance income relating to defined benefit pension scheme (6.2) Equity-settled share-based payment expenses 8.9 5.5 Income tax expense 97.7 92.5 Increase in trade and other receivables (45.1) (13.3) Increase in inventories (35.7) (7.8) Increase in trade and other payables 67.8 53.3 Decrease in provisions and employee benefits (25.3) (26.0) Cash generated from the operations 362.5 378.0 Income taxes paid (90.9) (56.3) 271.6 321.7 CCI investigation costs (2.1) (4.3) Refund of EU fine * 5.4 Additional pension scheme funding (52.9) (16.8) Special contribution to the UK Pension Fund (48.6) Net cash from operating activities 216.6 257.4 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 3.3 5.2 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2.8 7.1 Sale of investments 1.1 0.8 Purchase of investments (0.7) (0.3) Settlement of transactional derivatives 3.0 4.0 Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 5.6 (2.7) Income from discontinued business (Polypipe) * 7.4 Acquisitions of controlling interests (8.9) (117.4) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (52.1) (45.8) Capitalised non-acquired intangibles (6.8) (5.0) Net cash from investing activities (52.7) (146.7) Cash flows from financing activities Interest paid (20.2) (20.7) Investment in pension partnership by UK Pension Fund 48.6 Acquisition of non-controlling interests (12.4) Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) Purchase of own shares (7.8) (29.5) Proceeds from the issue of share capital for employee share schemes 1.2 1.6 Net (repayment)/drawdown of borrowings (16.0) 14.2 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (0.5) Dividends paid to equity shareholders (88.8) (70.9) Net cash from financing activities (136.0) (69.6) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 27.9 41.1 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 120.4 75.7 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (0.8) 3.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year** 147.5 120.4 * Representing profit from operations discontinued in prior years (2010: £12.8m) ** Net of bank overdrafts of £0.4m (2010: £2.5m) Notes to the cash flow appear in note 23 74 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 1. Significant accounting policies IMI plc (the ‘Company’) is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The Company financial statements present information about the company as a separate entity and not about the Group. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and applicable law (IFRSs). The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 124 to 129. The financial statements were approved by the GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Board of Directors on 1 March 2012. The following relevant standards and interpretations were adopted by the Group during 2011: • IAS24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (Amendment adopted from 1 January 2011) The IASB issued an amendment to IAS24 that clarifies the definitions of a related party. The new definitions emphasise a symmetrical view of related party relationships and clarify the circumstances in which persons and key management personnel affect related party relationships of an entity. The adoption of the amendment had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. • IAS32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ (Amendment adopted from 1 February 2011) The IASB issued an amendment that alters the definition of a financial liability in IAS32 to enable entities to classify rights issues and certain options or warrants as equity instruments. The amendment is applicable if the rights are given pro rata to all of the existing owners of the same class of an entity’s non-derivative equity instruments, to acquire a fixed number of the entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed amount in any currency. The adoption of the amendment had no effect RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS on the financial position or performance of the Group. • IFRIC14 ‘IAS19-The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction’ (Amendment adopted from 1 January 2011) The amendment removes an unintended consequence of the interpretation when an entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and makes an early payment of contributions to cover such requirements. The amendment permits a prepayment of future service cost by the entity to be recognised as a pension asset. The adoption of the amendment had no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group. Improvements to IFRSs In May 2010, the IASB issued its third omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording. There are separate transitional provisions for each standard. The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies, but no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. BOARD REPORTS • IFRS3 ‘Business combinations’: The measurement options available for non-controlling interest (NCI) were amended. Only components of NCI that constitute a present ownership interest that entitles their holder to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation are entitled to the choice of measurement basis; namely at either fair value or at the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. All other components are to be measured at their acquisition date fair value. This amendment was effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011 but the Group adopted it from 1 January 2011 and changed its accounting policy accordingly. • IFRS7 ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’: The amendment was intended to simplify the disclosures provided by reducing the volume of disclosures around collateral held and improving disclosures by requiring qualitative information to put the quantitative information in context. The Group reflects the revised disclosure requirements in note 18. • IAS1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’: The amendment clarifies that an entity may present an analysis of each component of other comprehensive income either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements. The Group provides this analysis in the statement of changes in equity. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 1. Significant accounting policies (continued) Other amendments, resulting from improvements to IFRSs, to the following standards did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: • IFRS3 ‘Business Combinations’ (Contingent consideration arising from business combinations prior to the adoption of IFRS3 (as revised in 2008)) • IFRS3 ‘Business Combinations’ (Unreplaced and voluntarily replaced share-based payment awards) • IAS27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ • IAS34 ‘Interim Financial Statements’ The following interpretation and amendments to interpretations did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: • IFRIC13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’ (Amendment determining the fair value of award credits) • IFRIC19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities and Equity Instruments’ The following relevant standards and interpretations were issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2011: • IAS1 ‘Financial Statement Presentation’ – Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendment) The amendments to IAS1 change the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income. Items that could be reclassified (or ‘recycled’) to profit or loss at a future point in time (for example, upon derecognition or settlement) would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified. The amendment affects presentation only and therefore will have no impact on the Group’s financial position or performance. The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. • IAS19 ‘Employee Benefits’ (Amendment) The IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS19. These include a fundamental change which will affect the basis by which the Group apportions finance income between the income statement and other comprehensive income from 1 January 2013. Had this change been effective for 2011 we estimate that the financing cost would have increased by around £16m. The main impact on the Group of the other changes to IAS19 is to increase the information required to be disclosed. • IFRS9 ‘Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement’ IFRS9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASB’s work on the replacement of IAS39 and applies to the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in IAS39. The effective date of the standard has recently been revised so that it will now only apply for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, although earlier adoption is encouraged. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Group’s financial assets, but will potentially have no impact on classification and measurements of financial liabilities. The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture. • IFRS10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ IFRS10 replaces the portion of IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements. It also includes the issues raised in SIC-12 Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities. IFRS10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities. The changes introduced by IFRS10 will require management to exercise significant judgment to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS27. This standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. Restatement In accordance with IFRS3, following the finalisation of the balances relating to the Zimmermann & Jansen acquisition reported in the 2010 consolidated financial statements, the 2010 balance sheet has been restated. The details of this restatement are set out in note 3. In the consolidated statement of cash flows, comparatives have been restated to reclassify a £2.7m outflow for settlement of currency derivatives as an investing activity. This was previously included in the line item for the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held, which has been increased by an equivalent amount. 76 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME a) Basis of accounting The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (which is the Company’s functional currency), rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except revenues which are rounded to the nearest whole million. They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments; available-for-sale financial assets; financial assets and liabilities identified as hedged items; and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, where applicable, are stated at the lower of carrying amount and GROUP OPERATING REVIEW fair value less costs to sell. The following accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these consolidated financial statements. b) Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. The nature of the markets in which the Group operates leads, from time to time, to a variety of possible legal and other claims from customers. Whenever such matters are notified to the Group, they are investigated and any liability which results is recognised in the accounts as soon as a reliable estimate can be made. Where it is not possible to make a RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS reliable estimate of any future liability, a contingent liability is disclosed. The Company has disposed of a number of its previous businesses. The sale agreements contained various warranties and indemnities. In some cases, the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, sometimes contingent on future events. At the time of disposal, the accounts reflect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements. Estimates are updated at each reporting date to reflect the latest information available. Information about other areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are described in the notes which follow, on Revenue; Acquisitions; Intangible assets; Deferred tax assets and liabilities; Financial risk management; Employee benefits; Share-based payments; Provisions for liabilities and charges and Contingencies. c) Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) for the year to 31 December. BOARD REPORTS Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies. All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full. A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it (i) derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary; (ii) derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; (iii) derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity; (iv) recognises the fair value of the consideration received; (v) recognises FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the fair value of any investment retained; (vi) recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; (vii) reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 1. Significant accounting policies (continued) c) Basis of consolidation (continued) Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and the IMI Pension Fund interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (the partnership). Non-controlling interests are presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent. Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance. d) Revenue i) Sale of products Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the income statement net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable measurement is possible. No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods. Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale. Sales made under internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer risks as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce Official Rules for the Interpretation of Trade Terms. Sales made outside of Incoterms 2010 are generally recognised on delivery to the customer. ii) Services Revenue from services rendered is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date. The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer. Installation fees are recognised as revenue by reference to the stage of completion on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which case they are recognised when the goods are sold. iii) Construction contracts Revenue from significant machinery or valve contracts is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference to the specific contract terms unless the contract contains discrete components separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer. Where separate components are present, revenue is recognised on each component in accordance with the policy on the sale of products. e) Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately where either the quantum, the one-off nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying trading performance. The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional in these financial statements: • Restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the closure of activities or factories and the cost of significant reductions in workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities; • The employee benefit curtailment gain on the closure of the UK scheme to future accrual; • The amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible fixed assets; • Gains and losses (including fair value adjustments) on derivative financial instruments. The tax impact of the above items is also shown within exceptional items, together with the exceptional tax charge in connection with the restructuring. f) Financial income and expense Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset. Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared. Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, the 78 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME interest related element of derivatives and losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement. The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method. Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes represents the difference between the assumed interest on employee benefit plan liabilities and the assumed returns on employee benefit plan assets. Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective GROUP OPERATING REVIEW assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. g) Income tax Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments in respect of prior years. Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. h) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Where applicable, on initial classification as ‘held for sale’, non-current disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses on the initial classification of assets as held for sale are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are impairment losses on subsequent remeasurement and any reversal thereof. A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale. i) Foreign currencies BOARD REPORTS i) Foreign currency transactions Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reflected in profit before taxation in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. ii) Foreign operations The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to year end rates is taken directly to reserves. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly as a separate component of equity. Since 1 January 2004, the Group’s date of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 1. Significant accounting policies (continued) j) Financial instruments and fair value hedging Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs unless the instrument is a derivative not designated as a hedge (see below). Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39: • Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and other financial institutions are classified as ‘available for sale assets’ under IAS39, and held at fair value. Short term borrowings and overdrafts are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost. • Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options, metals futures contracts and any embedded derivatives, are classified as ‘fair value through profit or loss’ under IAS39, unless designated as hedges. Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net financial income or expense. • Long term loans and other interest bearing borrowings are generally held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Where the long term loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded as effective, the carrying value of the long term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the hedge. • Trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. • Trade payables are stated at cost. • Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. • Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in equity, except for impairment losses which are recognised in the income statement. k) Other hedging i) Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or forecast transactions Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, or financial commitment or a forecast transaction, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense. For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the segmental revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment. ii) Hedge of net investment in foreign operation Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective. The Company assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value changes of its net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the debt designated as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument. l) Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or volatility meets the definition of an exceptional item as set out in accounting policy (e) above. 80 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in contracts held by the acquiree. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business combination. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs. Identifiable intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably. If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS recognised in profit and loss. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. m) Intangible assets BOARD REPORTS Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts between acquired intangible assets and non-acquired intangible assets. Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as described in note (e) of these accounting policies, because of its inherent volatility. The accounting policy for goodwill is described in note 1 above. i) Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised provided benefits are probable, cost can be reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’) and is included in the other acquired or other non-acquired category of intangible assets depending on its origin. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 1. Significant accounting policies (continued) m) Intangible assets (continued) ii) Software development costs Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host computer equipment are capitalised on initial recognition as intangible assets at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price plus external costs incurred on development of the asset to bring it into use. Following initial recognition, software development costs are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation (see below) and accumulated impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’) and are included in the other acquired or other non-acquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin. iii) Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value calculated by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate. Expenditure on other internally generated intangible assets is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. iv) Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit) over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets. Amortisation commences from the date the intangible asset becomes available for use. The estimated maximum useful lives are as follows: • Capitalised development costs 5 years • Software development costs Life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) • Customer relationships Life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) • Order book Period of the outstanding order book • Other intangible assets Life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) n) Property, plant and equipment Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’). Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment. Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group for clearly identifiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution received from customers and are included in plant and equipment. Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit) so as to write down the cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful lives within the following ranges: • Freehold buildings 25 to 50 years • Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years o) Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see above) and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’). Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the period of the lease unless a different systematic method is more appropriate under the terms of the lease. The majority of leasing transactions entered into by the Group are operating leases. 82 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW p) Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In respect of work in progress and finished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production and the appropriate proportion of production overheads. q) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW r) Impairment The carrying values of the Group’s non-financial assets other than inventories (see accounting policy ‘Inventories’) and deferred tax assets (see accounting policy ‘Income tax’), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets within its cash generating unit is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date. i) Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables other than financial assets held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted. The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use an individual assessment is made of the estimated future cash flows generated for each cash-generating unit (based upon the latest Group three year plan and extrapolated using an appropriate long term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity consistent with long term GDP growth). These are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Management believe that this approach, including the use of the indefinite cash flow projection, is appropriate based upon both historical experience and because it is one of the bases management utilise to evaluate the fair value of investment opportunities. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. ii) Reversals of impairment BOARD REPORTS As required by IAS36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, any impairment of goodwill or available for sale financial assets is non-reversible. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. s) Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the Company’s shareholders or by the subsidiary’s shareholders in respect of dividends to non-controlling interests. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 1. Significant accounting policies (continued) t) Employee benefits i) Defined contribution pension plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred. ii) Defined benefit pension plans The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling. When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised in profit or loss in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income. iii) Long-term service and other post-employment benefits The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service and other post-employment benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Group’s obligations. iv) Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits as set out in note 20. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised. u) Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are valued at management’s best estimate of the amount required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date. A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly. 84 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW 2. Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements for each of the Group’s operating segments. The operating segment reporting format reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structures. Inter-segment revenue is insignificant. The Group includes the following five operating segments and activities: Fluid Controls Severe Service GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Design, manufacture, supply and service of high performance critical control valves and associated equipment for power generation plants, oil & gas producers, petrochemical, iron & steel plants, and other process industries. Fluid Power Design, manufacture and supply of motion and fluid control systems, principally pneumatic devices, for original equipment manufacturers in commercial vehicle, life science, rail, energy, food and beverage and other industries. Indoor Climate Design, manufacture and supply of indoor climate control systems, principally balancing valves for large commercial buildings, thermostatic radiator valves for residential buildings and water conditioning equipment. Retail Dispense Beverage Dispense Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense systems and associated merchandising RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS equipment for brand owners and retailers. Merchandising Design, manufacture and supply of point of purchase display systems for brand owners and retailers. Information regarding the performance of each operating segment is included below. Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the profit reported by the businesses, stated before exceptional items including restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation, reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses and the employee benefit curtailment on the UK scheme. Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and values in accordance with the Group’s policy to minimise the risk of volatility in revenues, costs and margins. Segmental operating profits are therefore charged/credited with the impact of these contracts. These contracts do not meet the technical provisions required under IAS39 for hedge accounting therefore gains and losses are reversed out of segmental profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes of the statutory consolidated income statement. Segmental Segmental BOARD REPORTS revenue operating profit 2011 2010 2011 2010 £m £m £m £m Fluid Controls 1,649 1,433 307.6 262.4 Severe Service 572 452 88.9 78.4 Fluid Power 767 685 150.5 113.7 Indoor Climate 310 296 68.2 70.3 Retail Dispense 486 484 66.5 57.3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Beverage Dispense 317 315 41.1 32.0 Merchandising 169 169 25.4 25.3 Total 2,135 1,917 374.1 319.7 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 2. Segmental information (continued) Reconciliation of reported segmental revenue and operating profit Revenue Profit 2011 2010 2011 2010 £m £m £m £m Segmental result 2,135 1,917 374.1 319.7 Reversal of economic hedge contract gains (4) (6) (4.1) (2.7) Restructuring costs (23.5) (16.0) Acquired intangible amortisation (32.3) (7.0) Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme 15.1 Total revenue/operating profit reported 2,131 1,911 314.2 309.1 Net financial expense (12.8) (3.0) Profit before tax continuing operations 301.4 306.1 Balance sheet Segment Segment assets liabilities Restated Restated 2011 2010 2011 2010 £m £m £m £m Fluid Controls 1,183.4 1,130.9 377.9 337.1 Severe Service 595.5 556.6 201.6 167.6 Fluid Power 436.0 426.5 114.9 106.1 Indoor Climate 151.9 147.8 61.4 63.4 Retail Dispense 283.4 275.0 91.4 80.9 Beverage Dispense 137.3 137.1 58.6 53.0 Merchandising 146.1 137.9 32.8 27.9 Total 1,466.8 1,405.9 469.3 418.0 Reconciliation of segment assets and liabilities to Group balance sheet Assets Liabilities Restated Restated 2011 2010 2011 2010 £m £m £m £m Segment assets and liabilities 1,466.8 1,405.9 469.3 418.0 Corporate items 8.0 12.1 87.6 77.7 Employee benefits 1.9 1.6 205.7 201.0 Investments 20.4 19.2 Funds/borrowings 147.9 122.9 256.1 268.3 Net taxation and others 87.8 61.1 99.9 82.0 Per Group balance sheet 1,732.8 1,622.8 1,118.6 1,047.0 86 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW Other information Restructuring Capital Depreciation & costs expenditure amortisation* 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m Fluid Controls 21.4 10.7 50.7 41.9 70.7 44.4 Severe Service 11.9 4.8 11.4 20.0 39.2 11.2 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Fluid Power 5.5 3.1 26.2 15.0 23.3 25.9 Indoor Climate 4.0 2.8 13.1 6.9 8.2 7.3 Retail Dispense 2.1 5.3 8.0 8.7 8.8 11.3 Beverage Dispense 2.1 5.0 5.3 4.9 6.3 8.3 Merchandising 0.3 2.7 3.8 2.5 3.0 Subtotal 23.5 16.0 58.7 50.6 79.5 55.7 Corporate 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.5 Total 23.5 16.0 58.9 50.8 80.0 56.2 * Included within depreciation and amortisation for Severe Service is £28.9m (2010: £3.1m) amortisation of acquired intangibles Included within depreciation and amortisation for Fluid Power is £3.1m (2010: £3.4m) amortisation of acquired intangibles RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Included within depreciation and amortisation for Indoor Climate is £0.3m (2010: £0.2m) amortisation of acquired intangibles Included within depreciation and amortisation for Beverage Dispense is £nil (2010: £0.3m) amortisation of acquired intangibles Revenue by geographical destination 2011 2010 £m £m UK 136 141 Germany 296 261 Rest of Europe 577 542 USA 580 543 Asia/Pacific 319 285 Rest of World 227 145 BOARD REPORTS Total segmental revenue 2,135 1,917 Reversal of economic hedge contract gains (4) (6) Total 2,131 1,911 No individual customer, or group of customers under common control, represents more than 10% of Group revenue (2010: none). Segmental analysis of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Restated 2011 2010 £m £m UK 103.7 99.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Germany 164.2 181.0 Rest of Europe 187.2 186.5 USA 232.1 232.5 Asia/Pacific 46.6 47.2 Rest of World 11.7 14.0 Total 745.5 760.6 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 3. Acquisitions 3.1 Acquisitions subsequent to the year-end Remosa On 16 February 2012, the Group acquired Remosa SpA and related companies (collectively Remosa), a leading engineering business specialising in valves and related flow control products for severe applications, for an enterprise value of approximately £84.7m (€100m), being cash consideration of £69.8m (€82.4m) and debt assumed of approximately £14.9m (€17.6m). The consideration was funded out of IMI’s existing resources and banking facilities. Founded in 1955 by Giulio Mambrini, Remosa is a severe service valve business based in Sardinia, Italy and was privately-owned prior to acquisition. Remosa makes specialist valves used in critical applications in the downstream petrochemical sector and also has an established valve servicing business. The main Remosa manufacturing facility is located in Sardinia. The senior management and all of its 360 employees will be transferring with the business. In the 2011 calendar year, Remosa’s unaudited sales were £40.7m (€48m) and underlying EBITDA was £6.8m (€8m). Remosa will join IMI’s Severe Service division and is highly complementary with Zimmermann & Jansen, which IMI acquired at the end of 2010, and will strengthen the Group’s presence in the downstream petrochemical market. The use of IMI’s global sales and aftermarket infrastructure is expected to improve Remosa’s geographic penetration, notably in North America, and develop its aftermarket offering. Remosa already has a strong presence in emerging markets, including South America and Asia, with over 50% of sales coming from those markets. InterAtiva On 17 February 2012, the Group acquired Grupo InterAtiva (InterAtiva), a Brazilian isolation valve business, from its founding partners for an initial cash consideration of £22m and contingent consideration up to a maximum of £21.2m to be paid based on its performance over the next three years. The consideration is being funded out of IMI’s existing resources and banking facilities. Founded in 1992 by Wilson Gabriel and Mauro Bilbao, InterAtiva was privately-owned and designs, assembles and distributes isolation valves to various end-markets including oil and gas, sugar and ethanol production, and water treatment. It currently leases a 9,000sq metre facility located in Sorocaba, near Sao Paolo and employs 70 people who are all transferring with the business. In the 2011 calendar year, InterAtiva’s unaudited sales were £12m and underlying EBITDA was £3m. All of the 2011 sales were in the fast-growing South American markets. InterAtiva will join IMI’s Severe Service division and has existing strong customer relationships and approvals in Brazil with the major engineering, procurement and construction firms and also with the major oil and gas companies. With an experienced management team, and capacity for final assembly, it will be a strong platform for IMI’s existing severe service isolation valve brands, including Orton and TruFlo Rona, to enter this market. Given the proximity of these acquisitions to the date of approval of these financial statements, the initial accounting for them is not yet complete and consequently disclosures regarding, inter alia, the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, the fair value of the consideration and the amounts allocated to goodwill and intangible assets have not been given, but will be included in the Group’s 2012 Interim Report. 3.2 Acquisitions during the year TH Jansen The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH (THJ) on 17 October 2011. Consideration of £10.3m, including the overdraft acquired of £1.3m, is net of £2.2m due from the vendor, which is subject to agreement through the completion accounts process. Net debt of £2.5m was taken on as part of the acquisition. Assuming that the acquisition of THJ had been completed on 1 January 2011, it is estimated that the Group segmental revenue and segmental operating profit would have been £2,150m and £375.4m respectively. Segmental revenue of £3.4m and segmental operating profit of £0.3m for the period since acquisition has been reported within the Severe Service segment. THJ designs, manufactures and sells isolation valves for the iron & steel industry from its manufacturing facility near Saarbrücken in Germany. Similar to IMI’s existing Severe Service businesses, THJ’s products are typically customengineered for specific, critical, severe service applications with significant ongoing aftermarket requirements. 88 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW The fair value of the net assets acquired was £7.7m, resulting in goodwill of £1.3m. The net assets comprised customer relationships of £6.4m, an order book of £1.1m, property, plant and equipment of £2.9m, working capital balances of £3.3m (including trade and other receivables of £3.7m) less £6.0m of net debt and deferred tax liabilities. The methodology for arriving at fair values, intangible asset values and residual goodwill is described in the accounting policies in note 1 to these financial statements. The goodwill recognised on acquisition principally relates to skills present within the assembled workforce, customer service capability and an element of the synergies available when the business is integrated with the Zimmermann & Jansen (Z&J) business acquired in 2010. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW The fair value adjustments relate principally to the harmonisation with Group IFRS compliant accounting policies, recognition of intangible assets (which comprise the value of non-contractual customer relationships and the order book at acquisition) and adjustments to move the carrying value of the identifiable net assets from cost to fair value. Transaction costs of £0.5m have been expensed and are included within administrative expenses. The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired and the consideration for THJ have been provisionally determined at 31 December 2011. Completion accounts have been prepared and adjustments to both consideration and the fair value of assets acquired may arise when these are finalised. Cash flows from the acquisition of controlling interests are shown below: Cash flows from acquisition of controlling interests £m RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Purchase consideration: Cash 11.2 Receivable from vendor (2.2) Total purchase consideration for THJ 9.0 Overdraft acquired 1.3 Receivable from vendor 2.2 Gross amount paid on acquisition of THJ 12.5 Finalisation of consideration for acquisition of Z&J (3.6) Included in cash flow from investing activities 8.9 Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) 0.5 Total cash flow on acquisition of controlling interests 9.4 BOARD REPORTS 3.3 Prior year acquisitions On 31 December 2010 the Group acquired Z&J for total purchase consideration of £124.4m, net of a £6.3m receivable (subsequently £6.4m due to exchange rate movements) from the vendor for amounts to be finalised in the completion accounts. Total identifiable net assets were £75.0m, resulting in goodwill of £49.4m. These amounts were deemed provisional at this date. During the first half of this year, these provisional amounts were finalised, resulting in an increase to consideration of £2.8m, represented by increases to trade and other receivables of £0.4m, decreases in trade and other payables of £0.4m, an increase in the associated deferred tax liabilities of £0.2m and an increase to goodwill of £2.2m. The 2010 balance sheet has been restated accordingly. During 2010 the Group also paid £1.6m in deferred consideration in respect of the acquisition of 70% of Pneumatex AG originally completed on 28 December 2007. 3.4 Non-controlling interests FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (the partnership) was established during the year ended 31 December 2010. The IMI Pension Fund agreed to invest a special contribution of £48.6m made by the Group into the partnership, giving them rights to receive income of £4.4m per year for twenty years. The partnership is fully consolidated in these accounts with the pension fund’s interest presented within equity in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to the owners of the parent. The investment valuation at 31 December 2011 was provided by the Trustee, based on an independent valuation prepared for the Trustee in June 2011. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 4. Operating profit 2011 2010 £m £m Revenue (i) 2,130.5 1,911.3 Cost of sales (ii) (1,228.4) (1,097.4) Gross profit 902.1 813.9 Selling and distribution costs (iii) (245.4) (234.0) Administrative expenses (iv) (342.5) (270.8) Operating profit 314.2 309.1 i) includes reversal of £4.4m economic hedge contract gains (2010: gain £5.8m) ii) includes £9.1m restructuring costs (2010: £1.9m) and a reversal of £0.3m economic hedge contract gains (2010: £3.1m) iii) includes £1.0m restructuring costs (2010: £2.7m) iv) includes £13.4m restructuring costs (2010: £11.4m), £32.3m of acquired intangible amortisation (2010: £7.0m) and £nil in respect of the closure of the UK pension scheme to future accrual (2010: £15.1m credit). Total restructuring costs of £23.5m (2010: £16.0m) were incurred during the year, which are analysed by division in note 2. These costs principally related to the relocation of fluid controls manufacturing activities to low-cost manufacturing locations, particularly within the Severe Service division. 5. Discontinued operations There was no income or expense in respect of discontinued operations during 2011. In 2010 the General Court of the European Union issued its judgement on the Group’s appeal against the fine levied in 2005 in respect of allegations of anti-competitive behaviour among certain manufacturers of copper tube. The result of the appeal was a reduction in the fine of £5.4m. This income was shown as discontinued operations as it related to a business that was sold in 2002. Also in 2010, consideration of £7.4m was received in relation to the disposal of Polypipe during 2005 and was credited within profit from discontinued operations. No tax was chargeable on the discontinued items in 2010. The basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations in 2010 was 4.0p. 90 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6. Net financial income and expense 2011 2010 Financial Financial Interest instruments Total Interest instruments Total Recognised in the income statement £m £m £m £m £m £m Interest income on bank deposits 3.3 3.3 5.2 5.2 Financial instruments at fair value GROUP OPERATING REVIEW through profit or loss: Designated hedges 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.5 Other economic hedges current year trading 8.1 8.1 9.6 9.6 future year transactions 5.1 5.1 10.4 10.4 Financial income 3.3 13.9 17.2 5.2 20.5 25.7 Interest expense on interest bearing loans and borrowings (20.4) (20.4) (20.7) (20.7) Interest cost capitalised 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges (0.8) (0.8) (0.4) (0.4) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Other economic hedges current year trading (9.0) (9.0) (7.3) (7.3) future year transactions (6.2) (6.2) (0.5) (0.5) Financial expense (20.2) (16.0) (36.2) (20.5) (8.2) (28.7) Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes 6.2 6.2 Net financial (expense)/income (10.7) (2.1) (12.8) (15.3) 12.3 (3.0) Included in financial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for management reporting purposes (see note 2) are included in segmental operating profit. For statutory purposes these are required to be shown within net financial income and expense above. Gains or losses for future year transactions are in BOARD REPORTS respect of financial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash flows. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 6. Net financial income and expense (continued) Recognised in other comprehensive income 2011 2010 £m £m Foreign currency translation differences (9.7) 16.9 Change in fair value of other financial assets 1.2 (2.5) Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges 1.9 (6.5) Income tax on financial income/(expense) recognised directly in equity (0.2) 0.9 Financial income/(expense) recognised directly in equity (net of tax) (6.8) 8.8 Recognised in: Hedging reserve 1.4 (4.7) Translation reserve (9.8) 15.7 Retained earnings 1.2 (2.5) Non-controlling interests 0.4 0.3 (6.8) 8.8 7. The following have been charged/(credited) in arriving at profit before tax 2011 2010 £m £m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 43.6 44.8 Amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets 32.3 7.0 Amortisation of non-acquired intangible fixed assets 4.1 4.4 Research and development * 38.8 36.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (2.5) 3.8 Loss on disposal of investments 0.1 Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2.7 2.4 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 Tax services 0.2 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.2 Rentals under operating leases: Property rents 21.4 20.7 Hire of plant and machinery 9.1 8.0 Exchange (gains)/losses on operating activities net of hedging arrangements (1.3) 1.0 * In addition to the research and development costs above, £4.4m (2010: £5.0m) has been capitalised in respect of development costs and is included in other non-acquired intangible assets in note 11. 92 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW 8. Taxation 2011 2010 £m £m £m £m a) Recognised in the income statement: Current tax expense UK corporation tax: Current tax on income for the year (0.4) 9.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.2) 0.2 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW (1.6) 9.5 Overseas tax: Current tax on income for the year 86.7 58.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 0.1 86.8 58.3 Total current tax 85.2 67.8 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12.5 24.7 Total income tax expense 97.7 92.5 b) Total current and deferred tax recognised directly in equity: On equity-settled transactions (1.6) (4.8) On gains and losses of financial instruments 0.5 (1.8) On actuarial losses (15.5) (3.4) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS On foreign currency translation differences (0.3) 0.9 (16.9) (9.1) c) Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2011 2010 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptionals items Total exceptionals items Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Profit before tax from continuing operations 363.4 (62.0) 301.4 304.4 1.7 306.1 Income tax using the Company’s domestic rate of tax of 26.5% (2010: 28.0%) 96.3 (16.4) 79.9 85.2 0.5 85.7 Effects of: Non-deductible items 1.3 1.2 2.5 0.1 1.7 1.8 Exceptional tax charge on restructuring 11.0 11.0 BOARD REPORTS Utilisation of tax losses (1.0) (1.0) (0.1) (0.1) Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 0.4 0.4 1.8 1.8 Differing tax rates in different jurisdictions 6.1 0.1 6.2 4.7 (1.0) 3.7 Over provided in prior years (1.3) (1.3) (0.4) (0.4) Total tax in income statement on continuing operations 101.8 (4.1) 97.7 91.3 1.2 92.5 Effective rate of tax 28.0% 6.6% 32.4% 30.0% 70.6% 30.2% The weighted average rate of corporation tax for the calendar year in the UK is 26.5% (2010: 28.0%). As the Group operates worldwide it is subject to several factors which may affect future tax charges, principally the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions in which the Group may or may not have offsetting tax losses and the various tax rates imposed in those jurisdictions. The tax credit on exceptional items of £4.1m (2010: charge of £1.2m) includes a tax credit of £15.1m on the exceptional FINANCIAL STATEMENTS costs of £62.0m together with a tax charge of £11.0m in connection with certain of the restructuring activities. Changes to the main rate of UK Corporation Tax were proposed in the Budget of 23 March 2011 to reduce the main rate of UK Corporation Tax to 26% from 1 April 2011 and by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014. The further reduction of the main rate to 25% from 1 April 2012 was substantively enacted on 19 July 2011. The other proposed reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and consequently are not reflected in these financial statements. No tax was chargeable on the discontinued operations in 2010. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 9. Earnings per ordinary share The weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, net of shares held as treasury shares or held in trust to satisfy employee share schemes, was 317.0m, 322.5m diluted for the effect of outstanding share options (2010: 319.0m, 323.8m diluted). Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated on earnings of £200.4m (2010: £224.7m). As there is no income from discontinued operations in 2011, the basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations have also been calculated on earnings of £200.4m (2010: £211.9m). The directors consider that adjusted earnings per share figures, using earnings as calculated below, give a more meaningful indication of the underlying performance because the quantum, the one-off nature, or the volatility of the items adjusted would otherwise distort it. 2011 2010 £m £m Profit for the year from continuing operations 203.7 213.6 Non-controlling interests (3.3) (1.7) 200.4 211.9 Charges/(credits) included in profit for the year: Restructuring costs 23.5 16.0 Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme (15.1) Acquired intangible amortisation 32.3 7.0 Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains and losses 6.2 (9.6) 262.4 210.2 Taxation (credit)/charge on exceptional items (4.1) 1.2 Earnings for adjusted EPS 258.3 211.4 Weighted average number of shares 317.0m 319.0m Adjusted EPS 81.5p 66.3p Diluted adjusted EPS 80.1p 65.3p 10. Employee information The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: 2011 2010 Fluid Controls 11,251 9,992 Retail Dispense 2,970 2,988 Corporate 182 184 Total 14,403 13,164 The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. As Z&J was acquired on 31 December 2010, these employees are also excluded from 2010 figures. The aggregate employment cost charged to operating profit for the year was: £m £m Wages and salaries 498.8 456.3 Share-based payments (see note 20) 8.9 5.5 Social security costs 83.1 70.9 Pension costs * 12.8 0.8 Total 603.6 533.5 * In 2011, pension costs above exclude £9.6m (including £1.2m National Insurance contributions) for committed payments to be made to deferred members in respect of the enhanced transfer value exercise and the associated settlement gain of £11.7m (both included in note 19) because these amounts are in respect of former employees. In 2010, pension costs include the curtailment benefit of £15.1m relating to the closure of the UK pension scheme as this related to current employees. The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report. 94 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW 11. Intangible assets Acquired Other Other customer acquired non-acquired Goodwill relationships intangibles Sub total intangibles Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost As at 1 January 2010 341.3 44.6 38.3 424.2 41.0 465.2 Exchange adjustments 9.9 0.1 1.9 11.9 1.3 13.2 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Acquisitions (restated) 51.6 54.5 22.8 128.9 128.9 Additions 5.0 5.0 As at 31 December 2010 (restated) 402.8 99.2 63.0 565.0 47.3 612.3 Exchange adjustments 0.1 (1.8) (0.5) (2.2) (0.1) (2.3) Acquisitions 1.3 6.4 1.1 8.8 8.8 Additions 6.8 6.8 As at 31 December 2011 404.2 103.8 63.6 571.6 54.0 625.6 Amortisation As at 1 January 2010 21.0 33.1 54.1 24.7 78.8 Exchange adjustments 1.7 1.7 0.7 2.4 Impairment 0.4 0.4 Amortisation for year 5.8 1.2 7.0 4.4 11.4 As at 31 December 2010 26.8 36.0 62.8 30.2 93.0 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Exchange adjustments (0.4) (0.5) (0.9) (0.1) (1.0) Amortisation for year 10.6 21.7 32.3 4.1 36.4 As at 31 December 2011 37.0 57.2 94.2 34.2 128.4 NBV at 31 December 2010 (restated) 402.8 72.4 27.0 502.2 17.1 519.3 NBV at 31 December 2011 404.2 66.8 6.4 477.4 19.8 497.2 Cumulative impairment recognised in relation to goodwill is £6m (2010: £6m). Goodwill is tested annually for impairment with the recoverable amount based on value in use. Value in use is calculated based on the discounted cash flows of the cash generating unit being tested for impairment. The key assumptions in the BOARD REPORTS discounted cash flow calculations are the growth rate and the discount rate. The growth rate is based on the 3 year long term forecasts extrapolated into perpetuity at 2.25%, which is consistent with the long term growth rates of the industry in which the Group operates. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units based on the synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition on which the goodwill arose. The Group has 34 cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated but these cash generating units neither have a significant proportion of the total goodwill allocated to them, nor is this the case after any aggregations of cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. Pre-tax discount rates of between 10% and 15% are applied in determining the recoverable amounts of cash generating units. The discount rates are estimated based on the Group’s cost of capital, risk adjusted for individual unit’s circumstances. The Group’s estimates of impairments of goodwill are most sensitive to the increases in the discount rate used and the long term growth rates used in the forecast cash flows in addition to the achievement of the forecasts themselves. These growth rates vary significantly depending on the circumstances of each cash generating unit and have been based on the business reviews carried out in the year. The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 which had been deducted from the profit FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and loss reserves and incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, amounted to £364m. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 12. Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Land & Plant & course of Cost buildings equipment construction Total £m £m £m £m As at 1 January 2010 186.5 671.2 14.9 872.6 Exchange adjustments 2.0 11.3 13.3 Acquisitions 6.0 5.2 0.3 11.5 Additions 3.3 28.2 14.3 45.8 Disposals (9.2) (35.6) (44.8) Transfers 1.0 8.9 (9.9) As at 31 December 2010 189.6 689.2 19.6 898.4 Exchange adjustments (1.6) (9.6) (0.3) (11.5) Acquisitions 1.9 1.0 2.9 Additions 7.4 35.0 9.7 52.1 Disposals (2.0) (55.2) (57.2) Transfers 0.9 10.0 (10.9) As at 31 December 2011 196.2 670.4 18.1 884.7 Depreciation As at 1 January 2010 90.1 549.5 639.6 Exchange adjustments 1.0 8.8 9.8 Disposals (6.3) (34.2) (40.5) Impairment 3.3 0.1 3.4 Depreciation 5.1 39.7 44.8 As at 31 December 2010 89.9 567.1 0.1 657.1 Exchange adjustments (0.9) (6.7) (7.6) Disposals (0.4) (53.8) (54.2) Impairment reversal (1.0) (1.5) (2.5) Depreciation 5.0 38.6 43.6 As at 31 December 2011 92.6 543.7 0.1 636.4 NBV at 31 December 2010 99.7 122.1 19.5 241.3 NBV at 31 December 2011 103.6 126.7 18.0 248.3 Included in the total net book value of plant and machinery is £1.0m (2010: £1.0m) in respect of assets acquired under finance leases. Depreciation for the year on these assets was £0.6m (2010: £0.6m). 13. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m Restated Restated Restated Non-current assets 2.7 9.5 (53.2) (63.3) (50.5) (53.8) Inventories 8.3 6.5 (5.6) (5.5) 2.7 1.0 Revaluation of derivatives 0.9 1.1 (1.2) (2.7) (0.3) (1.6) Employee benefits and provisions 83.1 92.3 (4.7) (5.0) 78.4 87.3 Tax assets 5.8 2.9 5.8 2.9 100.8 112.3 (64.7) (76.5) 36.1 35.8 Set-off of tax (25.1) (56.0) 25.1 56.0 75.7 56.3 (39.6) (20.5) 36.1 35.8 96 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets of £25.4m (2010: £25.7m) have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of £99.4m (2010: £97.5m). The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date, and the assets have not been recognised due to uncertainty over their recoverability. It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption. However £59.9m (2010: £48.7m) of those earnings may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of the dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas taxes jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. These tax liabilities are GROUP OPERATING REVIEW not expected to exceed £5.7m (2010: £5.2m) of which only £1.5m (2010: £1.0m) has been provided as the Group is able to control the timing of the dividends. It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future. Movement in net deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year Restated Recognised Balance Recognised directly in Acquisitions/ Balance at at 1 Jan 11 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 11 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (53.8) 4.8 0.8 (2.3) (50.5) Inventories 1.0 1.8 (0.1) 2.7 Revaluation of derivatives (1.6) 1.4 (0.1) (0.3) Employee benefits and provisions 87.3 (23.4) 14.4 0.1 78.4 Tax assets 2.9 2.9 (0.1) 0.1 5.8 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 35.8 (12.5) 14.4 0.6 (2.2) 36.1 Recognised Restated Restated Balance Recognised directly in Acquisitions/ Balance at at 1 Jan 10 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 10 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (28.0) (0.6) (0.5) (24.7) (53.8) Inventories 1.3 (0.6) 0.3 1.0 Revaluation of derivatives (1.0) (0.3) (0.3) (1.6) Employee benefits 94.8 (18.5) 8.5 0.4 2.1 87.3 Tax assets 7.5 (4.7) 0.1 2.9 74.6 (24.7) 8.5 (0.3) (22.3) 35.8 All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve. Of the £14.4m (2010: £8.5m) recognised directly BOARD REPORTS in equity £15.3m (2010: £4.3m) was credited in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and £0.9m (2010: £4.2m) was charged directly in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. 14. Inventories 2011 2010 £m £m Raw materials and consumables 108.6 101.4 Work in progress 117.4 94.0 Finished goods 97.6 92.6 323.6 288.0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2011 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to £1,213.6m (2010: £1,095.5m). In 2011 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £10.0m (2010: £5.1m). The reversal of writedowns amounted to £0.6m (2010: £0.7m). The write-down and reversal are included in cost of sales. Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to ongoing assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale values across all of the Group’s businesses. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 15. Trade and other receivables Restated 2011 2010 Falling due for payment within one year £m £m Trade receivables 344.9 314.9 Other receivables 21.9 16.2 Prepayments and accrued income 21.3 14.1 388.1 345.2 Receivables are stated after: Allowance for impairment 18.2 17.4 The Group’s exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 18. 16. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18. 2011 2010 £m £m Current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 13.0 12.9 Current portion of finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.3 13.3 13.2 Non-current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 241.8 252.2 Finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.4 242.4 252.6 17. Trade and other payables Restated 2011 2010 Current £m £m Trade payables 298.0 231.7 Bills of exchange payable 5.1 5.1 Other taxation 17.4 15.5 Social security 6.3 4.5 Other payables 0.4 1.1 Accruals and deferred income 156.9 164.9 484.1 422.8 98 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW 18. Financial risk management Overview The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. As described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45, this responsibility has been assigned to the Executive Committee with support and feedback from the Audit Committee and the IMI Group Assurance Department as described below. The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and GROUP OPERATING REVIEW procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The IMI Group Assurance Department undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. The Group’s funding and liquidity as well as its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements are managed centrally by IMI’s treasury function. Treasury uses a combination of derivatives and conventional financial instruments to manage the underlying risks. These derivatives and financial instruments themselves introduce exposure to the following risks: • Credit risk • Market risk • Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks; the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks, including each of the above risks; and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers, cash and cash equivalents held by the Group’s banks and other financial assets. At the end of 2011 these totalled £525.4m (2010: Restated £476.3m). Trade and other receivables The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, have less of an influence on credit risk. 4% (2010: 4%) of the Group’s revenue is attributable to sales transactions with our largest single customer. Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk. The Group’s contract approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at executive director level at which time the risk profile of the contract, including potential credit risks, is reviewed. Credit risk is minimised through due diligence on potential customers, appropriate credit limits, cash flow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate. BOARD REPORTS Counterparty risk A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services, with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution. Financial derivatives are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure to these instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to the counterparties. At the end of 2011 credit exposure including cash deposited did not exceed £20m with any single institution (2010: £22m). Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices will affect the Group’s income and cash flows or the value of its holding of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters. Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters into derivatives in the ordinary course of business and also manages financial liabilities in order to mitigate market risks. All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Currency risk The Group publishes consolidated accounts in Sterling but conducts much of its global business in other currencies. As a result it is subject to the risks associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs (‘transactions’), translation of foreign profits (‘profit translation’) and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign operations (‘asset translation’). IMI plc Annual Report 2011 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 18. Financial risk management (continued) Currency risk (continued) Transactions The Group’s wide geographic spread both in terms of cost base and customer locations helps to reduce the impact on profitability of swings in exchange rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures. It is the Group’s policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and purchases by economically hedging or netting currency exposures at the time of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using currency instruments (primarily forward exchange contracts). A proportion of forecast exposures are hedged depending on the level of confidence and hedging is topped up following regular reviews. On this basis up to 50% of the Group’s annual exposures are likely to be hedged at any point in time and the Group’s net transactional exposure to different currencies varies from time to time. Profit translation The Group is exposed to the translation of profits denominated in foreign currencies into the Sterling-based income statement. The interest cost related to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this exposure. Short term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited protection against Sterling strength on an opportunistic basis. The translation of US Dollar and Euro-based profits represent the most significant translation exposure for the Group. Asset translation The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way of external currency loans and forward currency contracts. The intention is to manage the Group’s exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates. To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is recognised directly in reserves. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Detail of the quantum and management of this exposure is provided in note 18.2. Southern European risk The Group has reviewed its risks from a potential break-up of the Euro affecting Southern European countries. Local cash deposits are already minimised through the use of existing cash pooling and intercompany loan arrangements. There are regular reviews of exposure to and reliance on local banking partners, receivables management and terms of significant contracts. In 2011 Southern Europe represented around 5% of the Group’s revenues and a similar proportion of its costs and assets with the majority being in Italy and Spain. Interest rate risk As a result of the Group’s management of its asset translation risks, it is exposed to a number of global interest rates – the most important of which are US, Eurozone and UK rates. The analysis of this exposure is shown in note 18.3 of these financial statements. The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at fixed interest rates and reviewing the balance of the floating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise globally the effect on the Group’s income statement is manageable. The Group has raised US Dollar debt through the issuance of medium to long term fixed rate Loan Notes. In order to manage its exposure to interest rates, in 1999 US$30m of this fixed rate exposure was hedged back to floating rates through the use of interest rate swaps covering loan notes with a maturity of 2014. The interest component of the fair value of this portion of the Loan Notes has been designated as a hedged item and has been revalued accordingly in the accounts. The fair value of these interest rate swaps is included in the balance sheet at £3.1m (2010: £3.8m). The hedged item is included in the value of the debt as an increase in liability of £3.1m (2010: increase £3.8m). Exposure to other interest rate volatility is managed through a combination of fixed rate debt and derivative instruments where appropriate. Commodity risk The Group’s operating companies purchase metal and metal components with an annual base metal material value of approximately £36m (2010: £26m). The Group manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging copper, zinc, aluminium and nickel using a combination of financial contracts and local supply agreements designed to minimise the volatility of short term margins. 100 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when due, with sufficient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions. This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis. Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a core group of banks, and a series of US Loan Note issues. The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions and corporate activity, including acquisitions and organic growth plans. At the end of 2011 the GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Group had undrawn committed facilities totalling £250m (2010: £213m) and was holding cash and cash equivalents of £148m (2010: £123m). There are no significant seasonal funding requirements or capital intensive investment areas for the Group. Capital management The Board’s policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital base and the strength to sustain the future development of the business including acquisitions. The Board monitors the demographic spread of its shareholders and employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company. The underlying capital base of the Group includes total equity and reserves and net debt. Employee benefit obligations net of deferred tax form part of the extended capital base. Management of this element of the capital base is discussed further in note 19 to the accounts. Undrawn committed funding facilities are maintained as described above to provide additional capital for growth (including acquisitions and organic investments) and liquidity requirements as discussed above. 18.1 Capital base 2011 2010 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS £m £m Total equity 614 576 Gross debt 256 268 Cash (148) (123) Capital base 722 721 Employee benefits and deferred tax assets 155 143 Extended capital base 877 864 Undrawn funding facilities 250 213 Available capital base 1,127 1,077 Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base of the assets being funded as described in the paragraph on asset translation earlier in this section. BOARD REPORTS The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the company is considered regularly by the Board in the light of market conditions, business forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. Funding covenants currently limit net debt to a maximum of 3 times EBITDA (note that the net debt to EBITDA ratio at the end of 2011 was x 0.3 (2010: x 0.4). The Board would consider appropriate acquisitions which might take net debt to EBITDA to an internal limit of up to 2 to 2.5 times EBITDA as long as prevailing market conditions and the outlook for our existing businesses supported such a move. It is expected that at these levels our debt would still be perceived as investment grade. The potential benefits to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and the cost and availability of funding. As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate reserves are available in IMI plc in order to meet proposed shareholder dividends, the purchase of shares for employee share scheme incentives and any on-market share buy-back programme. The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend should be covered by at least 2 times underlying earnings. In the event that the Board cannot identify sufficient growth opportunities through organic investment and acquisitions, the return of funds to shareholders through share buy-backs or special dividends will be considered. It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly bought in the market by an employee benefit trust in order to hedge FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the exposure under certain management incentive plans. Details of these purchases are shown in note 22 to the accounts. The Board will consider raising additional equity in the event that it is required to support the capital base of the Group. The Group currently uses a post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) of 8% as a benchmark for investment returns. This is reviewed regularly in the light of changes in market rates. The Board tracks the Group’s return on invested capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently delivers returns in excess of the WACC. Consistent with this objective the growth in Economic Value Added (EVA) is used as a metric in the Group’s long term incentive programmes. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 18. Financial risk management (continued) 18.2 Currency profile of assets and liabilities Net assets / (liabilities) excluding cash & Exchange Net Net debt Cash Debt contracts assets assets 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m Sterling (12) 51 373 412 336 US Dollar 265 17 (255) 27 32 Euro 228 16 (234) 10 55 Other 241 64 (1) (139) 165 153 Total 722 148 (256) 614 576 Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are financial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets. 18.3 Interest rate risk profile Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2011 2011 2011 2011 rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m % years Sterling 424 424 US Dollar (255) 17 (6) (232) 6.8 6.1 Euro (234) 16 (218) Other (140) 64 (76) Total (629) 521 124 (232) Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2010 2010 2010 2010 rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m % years Sterling 364 364 US Dollar (254) 18 (7) (229) 6.8 7.1 Euro (235) 24 (168) (43) 2.4 1.1 Other (126) 64 (62) Total (615) 470 127 (272) Interest rates are managed using fixed and floating rate debt and financial instruments including interest rate swaps. Floating rate liabilities comprise short term debt which bears interest at short term bank rates and the liability side of exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter bank rate. All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are treated as floating rate investments. Non-interest bearing financial assets and liabilities including short term trade receivables and payables have been excluded from the above two analyses. 102 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW 18.4 Undrawn committed facilities The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities. The facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met were as follows: 2011 2010 £m £m Expiring within one year 50 112 Expiring between one and two years 101 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Expiring after more than two years 200 250 213 The weighted average life of these facilities is 2.7 years (2010: 0.7 years). 18.5 Terms and debt repayments schedule The terms and conditions of cash and cash equivalents and outstanding loans were as follows: Effective 5 years interest Carrying Contractual 0 to 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to and rate value cash flows <1 year <2 years <3 years <4 years <5 years over % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 2011 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Cash and cash equivalents Floating 147.9 147.9 147.9 US Loan Notes 2012 2022 6.93-7.17% (22.6) (31.0) (14.4) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (13.8) US Loan Notes 2014 Floating (22.4) (23.6) (0.4) (0.4) (22.8) US Loan Notes 2016 7.26% (48.4) (64.4) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (50.4) US Loan Notes 2018 5.98% (96.8) (132.4) (5.8) (5.8) (5.8) (5.8) (5.8) (103.4) US Loan Notes 2019 7.61% (64.5) (101.6) (4.9) (4.9) (4.9) (4.9) (4.9) (77.1) Finance leases Various (0.9) (0.9) (0.3) (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) Bank overdrafts Floating (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) Unsecured bank loans Floating (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Total (108.2) (206.5) 118.1 (15.5) (38.0) (15.0) (61.8) (194.3) Effective 5 years interest Carrying Contractual 0 to 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to and BOARD REPORTS rate value cash flows <1 year <2 years <3 years <4 years <5 years over % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 2010 Cash and cash equivalents Floating 122.9 122.9 122.9 US Loan Notes 2012 2022 6.93-7.17% (22.3) (32.2) (1.6) (14.2) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (14.3) US Loan Notes 2014 Floating (22.9) (24.0) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (23.1) US Loan Notes 2016 7.26% (47.8) (67.3) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (49.8) US Loan Notes 2018 5.98% (95.5) (136.2) (5.7) (5.7) (5.7) (5.7) (5.7) (107.7) US Loan Notes 2019 7.61% (63.7) (105.0) (4.8) (4.8) (4.8) (4.8) (4.8) (81.0) Finance leases Various (0.7) (0.7) (0.3) (0.2) (0.2) Bank overdrafts Floating (2.5) (2.5) (2.5) Unsecured bank loans Floating (12.9) (12.9) (12.9) Total (145.4) (257.9) 91.3 (28.7) (15.2) (37.8) (14.7) (252.8) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Contractual cash flows include undiscounted committed interest cash flows and, where the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined by reference to the conditions existing at the reporting date. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 18. Financial risk management (continued) 18.6 Total financial assets and liabilities The table below sets out the Group’s accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010. Under IAS39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classified as derivatives at fair value through the income statement. The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties. All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities. Other Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying at fair value at fair value sale assets cost value Fair value £m £m £m £m £m £m 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 147.9 147.9 147.9 Bank overdrafts (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) Borrowings due within one year (13.3) (13.3) (13.3) Borrowings due after one year (22.4) (220.0) (242.4) (285.5) Trade payables (298.0) (298.0) (298.0) Trade receivables 344.9 344.9 344.9 Investments 20.4 20.4 20.4 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets * 3.1 9.0 12.1 12.1 Derivative liabilities ** (0.2) (6.9) (7.1) (7.1) Total (19.5) 2.1 168.3 (186.8) (35.9) (79.0) * Includes £4.9m falling due after more than one year (2010: £7.0m). ** Derivative liabilities include liabilities of £1.0m falling due after more than one year (£0.8m in 1-2 years and £0.2m in 2-3 years). Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives. The increase in value of net investment hedge derivatives in the year of £1.9m is shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Trade payables are all due within one year. Restated Other Restated Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying Restated at fair value at fair value sale assets cost value Fair value £m £m £m £m £m £m 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 122.9 122.9 122.9 Bank overdrafts (2.5) (2.5) (2.5) Borrowings due within one year (13.2) (13.2) (13.2) Borrowings due after one year (22.9) (229.7) (252.6) (277.8) Trade payables (231.7) (231.7) (231.7) Trade receivables 314.9 314.9 314.9 Investments 19.2 19.2 19.2 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets * 3.8 12.0 3.5 19.3 19.3 Derivative liabilities ** (2.1) (2.5) (4.6) (4.6) Total (21.2) 9.5 145.6 (162.2) (28.3) (53.5) * Includes £7.0m falling due after more than one year. ** Derivative liabilities include liabilities of £0.6m falling due after more than one year (£0.2m in 1-2 years, £0.2m in 2-3 years and £0.2m in 3-4 years). Trade payables are all due within one year. 104 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW Valuations Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, short term borrowings, trade payables, trade receivables and other assets are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the short term nature of the instruments. Long term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is the intention that they will not be repaid prior to maturity. The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads. Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value the relevant hedged cash flows. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal commodity hedges, are valued using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities. Investments are primarily in publically quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas pension liabilities. The fair value is based on the price quotation at the reporting date. Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly. Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements of £22.4m (2010: £22.9m) and derivative assets of £12.1m (2010: £22.1m) and liabilities of £7.1m (2010: £4.6m) are valued by Level 2 techniques. Investments are valued by Level 1 techniques. 18.7 Exposure to credit risk The maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets is represented by their carrying value. At 31 December 2011 this was £180.5m (2010: £161.4m). Carrying amount Restated 2011 2010 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents 147.9 122.9 Investments 20.4 19.2 BOARD REPORTS Other available for sale financial assets 3.5 Interest rate swaps 3.1 3.8 Forward exchange contracts 9.1 11.7 Metals contracts 0.3 180.5 161.4 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December 2011 by geographic region was: Carrying amount 2011 2010 £m £m UK 30.9 25.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Germany 28.0 29.9 Rest of Europe 101.5 101.9 USA 77.0 75.5 Asia/Pacific 73.6 59.8 Rest of World 33.9 22.1 344.9 314.9 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 18. Financial risk management (continued) 18.7 Exposure to credit risk (continued) The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by business sector: Carrying amount 2011 2010 £m £m Severe Service 132.1 115.8 Fluid Power 107.7 99.8 Indoor Climate 38.5 39.3 Beverage Dispense 41.0 40.6 Merchandising 25.1 19.4 Corporate 0.5 344.9 314.9 The Group’s most significant customer, a food and beverage company, accounts for 3.8% of trade receivables carrying amount at 31 December 2011 (2010: 1.5%). Impairments The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 2011 2010 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment £m £m £m £m Not past due 304.9 (2.2) 275.3 (1.1) Past due 1-30 days 29.4 (1.0) 31.7 (0.8) Past due 31-90 days 12.6 (0.8) 9.0 (1.0) Past due over 90 days 16.2 (14.2) 16.3 (14.5) Total 363.1 (18.2) 332.3 (17.4) The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 £m £m Net balance at 1 January 17.4 17.8 Charged to the income statement 4.5 3.7 Utilised during the year (1.8) (2.6) Released (1.7) (1.7) Exchange (0.2) 0.2 Net balance at 31 December 18.2 17.4 The impairment loss recognised of £1.0m (2010: gain £0.1m) relates to the movement in the Group’s assessment of the risk of non-recovery from a range of customers across all of its businesses. 106 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW 18.8 Market risk sensitivity analysis on financial instruments As described elsewhere in this note 18, the Group uses financial instruments including debt and derivatives to reduce its underlying balance sheet and income statement exposure to volatility in interest rates, currency rates and base metal commodity prices. In estimating the sensitivity of the financial instruments we have assumed a reasonable potential change in interest rates, currency rates or metal prices. The method used assumes that all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on profit before tax and equity. The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely GROUP OPERATING REVIEW change in isolation. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and further developments in global financial markets. As such this table should not be considered as a projection of likely future gains and losses in these financial instruments. Financial instruments sensitivity table The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the specified changes occur only to the financial instruments and do not reflect the opposite movement from the impact of the specific change on the underlying business that they are designed to hedge. 1% decrease 1% increase 10% 10% 10% increase 10% decrease RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS in interest in interest weakening strengthening in base metal in base metal rates rates in Sterling in Sterling costs costs £m £m £m £m £m £m At 31 December 2011 Impact on income statement: (loss)/gain (3.5) 3.5 0.4 (0.4) Impact on equity: (loss)/gain (51.2) 51.2 At 31 December 2010 Impact on income statement: (loss)/gain (0.4) 0.4 (5.0) 5.0 0.2 (0.2) Impact on equity: (loss)/gain (49.0) 49.0 The above sensitivities are estimates of the impact of market risk on financial instruments only. As noted, it is the Group’s BOARD REPORTS policy to use financial instruments to manage its underlying exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements. In accordance with this policy, the Group is confident that the underlying risks that these financial instruments have been acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction. To the extent that the underlying currency, interest rate or metals price exposure is not fully hedged, the Group will remain exposed to movements in these variables. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 19. Employee benefits Pension arrangements, other post-employment and other long-term employee benefit arrangements are accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS19. As at 31 December 2011 the Group continues to provide pension benefits through a mixture of defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements. Contributions to defined contribution arrangements are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred. The Group has 75 different defined benefit arrangements worldwide. The major pension and other post-employment benefit arrangements are funded with plan assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation. Assessments of the obligations for funded and unfunded plans are carried out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit credit method. Pension costs primarily represent the increase in the actuarial present value of the obligation for projected benefits based on employee service during the year and the interest on this obligation in respect of employee service in previous years, net of the expected return on the assets. Movements in the pension assets and liabilities that arise during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions, or because actual experience is different from the underlying actuarial assumptions, are recognised through equity. The Group also provides a number of other long-term arrangements to our employees, with benefits payable more than 12 months after the related services are rendered. These plans are generally not funded and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. The Group’s strategy is to move away from defined benefit arrangements towards defined contribution arrangements wherever possible and to minimise the liability of the Group. During 2011 four defined benefit arrangements were wound-up, one was closed to new entrants and one to future accrual. The largest defined benefit arrangement is the IMI Pension Fund in the UK (the Fund). This constitutes 83% of the total defined benefit liabilities and 89% of the total defined benefit assets. The last formal triennial actuarial valuation of the Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2011. The statement of funding principles agreed with the Trustee resulted in an actuarial deficit of £120m. The Group agreed to pay a special contribution of £36.1m in December 2011 and further contributions of £16.8m each July from 2012 to 2016 inclusive as part of the recovery plan to close the deficit by 2016. The Group recognises there is a risk inherent within defined benefit arrangements that the assets do not match the liabilities at any given point in time. In advance of the IMI Pension Fund 2011 triennial actuarial valuation, the Group worked with the Trustee to mitigate the risk of a volatile funding position. A number of important initiatives were implemented in line with this objective. The Fund was closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010, which resulted in a curtailment gain of £15.1m which was recognised as an exceptional credit in the income statement for that year. The Trustee also purchased approximately £325m of annuities to match certain benefit payments due from the Fund. The purchase price of these annuities was greater than the value, measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, of the insured benefits. The Trustee also rearranged the remaining Fund assets with the objective of preserving the expected return on the total Fund assets (including the annuity policies). This was achieved, with a reduction in the funding volatility of the Fund, as measured by the Trustee’s value at risk model, of approximately 25%. The purchase of the annuities also reduced the mortality risk by around 20%. Also during 2010, the difference between the cost of the annuities and the underlying IAS19 liability was financed by a special contribution to the Fund of £48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in a special purpose vehicle giving them rights to receive income of £4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded. During 2011 certain Fund members accepted the Group’s enhanced transfer value offer. The 31 December 2011 defined benefit obligation in respect of the Fund reflects the liability to pay transfer values in early 2012. The transfer values payable are less than the value of the liabilities measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, resulting in a curtailment gain. As part of the Group’s offer, in addition to receiving transfer values from the Fund (which will reduce the IAS19 assets and liabilities by £27.4m each), subsequent to the year-end, the Group made payments of £8.5m to the individuals in addition to paying employers’ national insurance thereon of £1.1m. The curtailment gain of £11.7m reported in this note is therefore partially offset by £9.6m additional pension costs accrued, resulting in a net gain of £2.1m, reflected in segmental operating profit. With effect from 1 January 2012 Fund pensioners could choose to exchange future increases on their pensions for a higher current pension. The reduction in the Fund’s defined benefit obligation as a result of this exercise will be reflected in the income statement for 2012. 108 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW Reconciliation to the balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post employemployemployemployUK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Funded schemes in surplus: Fair value of assets 21.6 21.6 21.8 21.8 Present value of defined benefit obligation (18.2) (18.2) (19.1) (19.1) 3.4 3.4 2.7 2.7 Restriction due to asset ceiling (1.5) (1.5) (1.1) (1.1) Assets for defined benefit funded schemes 1.9 1.9 1.6 1.6 Funded schemes in deficit: Fair value of assets 1,061.5 112.4 1,173.9 981.5 112.7 1,094.2 Present value of defined benefit obligation (1,159.5) (142.9) (1,302.4) (1,088.4) (134.3) (1,222.7) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Recognised liabilities for defined benefit funded schemes (98.0) (30.5) (128.5) (106.9) (21.6) (128.5) Present value of obligation for unfunded schemes (3.5) (60.3) (13.4) (77.2) (3.5) (54.6) (14.4) (72.5) Liabilities for defined benefit schemes (101.5) (90.8) (13.4) (205.7) (110.4) (76.2) (14.4) (201.0) Net liability for defined benefit obligations (101.5) (88.9) (13.4) (203.8) (110.4) (74.6) (14.4) (199.4) Total fair value of assets 1,061.5 134.0 1,195.5 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 BOARD REPORTS Total present value of defined benefit obligation (1,163.0) (221.4) (13.4) (1,397.8) (1,091.9) (208.0) (14.4) (1,314.3) Asset ceiling (1.5) (1.5) (1.1) (1.1) Net liability for defined benefit obligations (101.5) (88.9) (13.4) (203.8) (110.4) (74.6) (14.4) (199.4) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 19. Employee benefits (continued) a) Summary of assumptions Weighted averages 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Inflation rate RPI 3.1 n/a 3.5 n/a 3.7 n/a Inflation rate CPI 2.1 1.9 n/a 2.0 n/a 2.0 Discount rate 4.8 3.7 5.5 4.1 5.7 4.4 Expected rate of salary increases ¹ n/a 2.8 n/a 2.8 4.9 2.8 Rate of pension increases ² 3.1 0.5 3.5 0.6 3.7 0.5 Rate of increase for deferred pensions ² 3.1 0.5 3.5 0.6 3.7 0.5 Medical cost trend rate ³ n/a 5.0 n/a 5.0 n/a 5.0 Expected return on equities 7.1 7.5 7.4 7.3 8.1 7.6 Expected return on bonds 3.8 2.8 4.8 3.1 5.3 3.5 Expected return on property 6.0 5.0 6.7 5.1 7.0 5.6 Expected return on other assets 4 8.4 2.4 8.4 2.4 4.4 2.5 Overall expected return on assets 5 6.5 4.3 7.1 4.4 6.9 4.6 ¹ For 2009, includes 0.2% pa as the average effect of the age-by-age promotional scale for UK. ² In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) for UK. ³ Initial rate of 7.0% pa (7.5% pa in 2010, 8.0% pa in 2009) reducing by 0.5% pa each year to 5.0% pa. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates do not have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the income statement. 4  here was a material change in the assumed return on other assets in the UK in 2010 which reflects changes in the IMI Pension Fund’s T investment strategy during the year. See note (e) below for further details. 5 Based on the distribution of assets set out in note (e) below. The mortality assumptions used for the IMI Pension Fund reflect its experience, together with an allowance for improvements over time. The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2011, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2011 reflect the results of this review. The table below shows the implied life expectancy from age 65 for the Fund’s current and future pensioners based on the assumptions adopted. The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates from 2011 is in line with the CMI’s 2010 Core Projection model, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% pa. The CMI is the research body funded by the actuarial profession to collect and analyse UK mortality rates. The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates assumed at December 2009 and 2010 was in line with the published medium cohort rates, with a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1%. Implied life expectancy (years) from age 65 for: 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Males Females Males Females Males Females Current pensioners 20.9 23.8 20.7 22.4 20.6 22.3 Future pensioners 22.7 25.8 22.7 24.3 22.6 24.2 The sensitivity of the balance sheet liability in respect of the IMI Pension Fund to changes in the key assumptions is shown in note (j) below. 110 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW b) Components of the pension expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post employemployemployemployUK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Defined benefit schemes operating costs Current service cost 4.6 0.8 5.4 4.7 4.2 0.6 9.5 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 (0.8) (0.8) Recognition of losses/(gains) (0.1) (0.1) 0.9 0.9 Settlement/curtailment (11.7) (1.8) (13.5) (15.1) (1.0) (16.1) Total (11.7) 2.8 0.8 (8.1) (10.4) 2.4 1.5 (6.5) Defined benefit schemes financial costs Interest cost 58.3 8.2 0.7 67.2 61.2 8.0 0.7 69.9 Expected return on assets (67.5) (5.9) (73.4) (64.2) (5.7) (69.9) Total (9.2) 2.3 0.7 (6.2) (3.0) 2.3 0.7 Total defined benefit schemes pension RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS expense/(income) (20.9) 5.1 1.5 (14.3) (13.4) 4.7 2.2 (6.5) Accrued payment to deferred members * 9.6 9.6 Pension expense from defined contribution schemes 3.1 6.1 9.2 1.0 6.3 7.3 Total pension (income)/expense (8.2) 11.2 1.5 4.5 (12.4) 11.0 2.2 0.8 * £9.6m (including £1.2m National Insurance contributions) has been accrued for committed payments to be made to deferred members in respect of the enhanced transfer value exercise. This amount has been included in operating profit. After the related settlement gain of £11.7m included above, this exercise results in a £2.1m net gain in the 2011 income statement. c) Income and expense recognised through equity for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post BOARD REPORTS employemployemployemployUK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Actuarial losses during the year (64.9) (19.9) (84.8) (18.6) (3.5) (22.1) Change in the effect of the asset ceiling (0.4) (0.4) (0.1) (0.1) Exchange gain/(loss) ¹ 0.8 0.8 (1.5) (0.2) (1.7) Total losses recognised during the year (64.9) (19.5) (84.4) (18.6) (5.1) (0.2) (23.9) Cumulative amount of actuarial gains/(losses) at the beginning of the year (216.0) (30.8) (5.9) (252.7) (197.4) (25.7) (5.7) (228.8) Cumulative amount of actuarial losses at the end of the year (280.9) (50.3) (5.9) (337.1) (216.0) (30.8) (5.9) (252.7) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 The 2011 figure includes no gain or loss on asset ceiling due to exchange rate movements. The equivalent figure for 2010 was a £0.1m gain. IMI Annual Report 2011 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 19. Employee benefits (continued) d) Reconciliation of present value of Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO) for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post employemployemployemployUK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Present value of DBO at the beginning of the year 1,091.9 208.0 14.4 1,314.3 1,101.4 186.3 13.5 1,301.2 Company service cost 4.6 0.8 5.4 4.7 4.2 0.6 9.5 Interest cost 58.3 8.2 0.7 67.2 61.2 8.0 0.7 69.9 Employee contributions 2.9 2.9 1.4 2.4 3.8 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 (0.8) (0.8) Actuarial (gain)/loss: from experience (10.5) (1.8) (0.6) (12.9) (11.8) (1.6) 0.7 (12.7) from changes in assumptions 90.0 18.2 0.5 108.7 10.1 5.8 0.2 16.1 Actual benefit payments from plan assets (55.0) (10.0) (65.0) (60.0) (8.6) (68.6) direct from the employers (3.9) (2.5) (6.4) (3.3) (2.3) (5.6) Settlement/curtailment (11.7) (2.9) (14.6) (15.1) (3.1) (18.2) Purchase of business 4.4 0.8 5.2 Exchange 0.1 0.1 14.3 0.2 14.5 Transfer to defined contribution scheme (2.0) (2.0) Present value of DBO at the end of the year 1,163.0 221.4 13.4 1,397.8 1,091.9 208.0 14.4 1,314.3 e) Market value by category of assets as at 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Equities 54.6 37.8 92.4 41.5 40.4 81.9 Bonds 397.5 73.1 470.6 335.5 71.5 407.0 Property 38.2 8.6 46.8 36.5 6.3 42.8 Other 571.2 14.5 585.7 568.0 16.3 584.3 Total 1,061.5 134.0 1,195.5 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 As at 31 December 2011 Other UK assets now include: • the current market value of the total return equity swaps of a negative £3m. These contracts provide the IMI Pension Fund with equity returns in excess of LIBOR on a notional investment of £362m; • £317m in respect of insurance (annuity) policies and IMI Pension Fund’s interest in the IMI Scottish Partnership; • £147m in respect of hedge fund investments; • £61m in respect of PFI investments; and • £49m in respect of cash and currency items. There are no assets that may be counted against the liabilities for overseas non-post employment arrangements. 112 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW f) Reconciliation of the fair value of assets for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Fair value of assets at the beginning of the year 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 926.6 118.2 1,044.8 Expected return on assets 67.5 5.9 73.4 64.2 5.7 69.9 Actuarial gain/(loss) on assets 14.6 (3.5) 11.1 (20.3) 0.7 (19.6) Actual company contributions: normal 6.3 6.3 4.2 5.5 9.7 additional as agreed under 2008 valuation funding plans 16.8 16.8 16.8 16.8 additional other 36.1 36.1 48.6 48.6 Employee contributions 2.9 2.9 1.4 2.4 3.8 Benefit payments (met from plan assets) (55.0) (10.0) (65.0) (60.0) (8.6) (68.6) Settlements (1.1) (1.1) (2.1) (2.1) Exchange 0.9 0.9 12.7 12.7 Transfer to defined contribution scheme (1.9) (1.9) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Fair value of assets at the end of the year 1,061.5 134.0 1,195.5 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 The other additional Company contribution made to UK arrangements during 2010 was in connection with facilitating investment by the IMI Pension Fund in the IMI Scottish Partnership. g) Reconciliation of actual return on assets for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m BOARD REPORTS Expected return on assets 67.5 5.9 73.4 64.2 5.7 69.9 Actuarial gain/(loss) on assets 14.6 (3.5) 11.1 (20.3) 0.7 (19.6) Actual return on assets 82.1 2.4 84.5 43.9 6.4 50.3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI Annual Report 2011 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 19. Employee benefits (continued) h) Additional information UK Overseas Total £m £m £m Expected employer contributions to defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2012 Normal 5.8 5.8 Additional 16.8 16.8 Expected employee contributions to defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2012 3.2 3.2 Expected benefits to be paid by the Company for the year ending 31 December 2012 5.8 5.8 The IMI Pension Fund closed to future accrual with effect from 31 December 2010. i) Historical information 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 £m £m £m £m £m Present value of the defined benefit obligation (1,397.8) (1,314.3) (1,301.2) (1,093.7) (1,184.1) Fair value of assets 1,195.5 1,116.0 1,044.8 958.2 1,124.0 Deficit (202.3) (198.3) (256.4) (135.5) (60.1) Impact of the asset ceiling (1.5) (1.1) (1.1) (1.6) (3.5) Net liability for defined benefit obligations (203.8) (199.4) (257.5) (137.1) (63.6) Experience (gain)/loss arising on plan liabilities (12.9) (12.7) (23.1) (13.0) 0.8 Experience (gain)/loss arising on plan assets (11.1) 19.6 (74.0) 245.6 11.3 j) Sensitivities The balance sheet liability is sensitive to changes in the assumptions used to place a value on the defined benefit obligation, in particular to the discount rate and implied life expectancy, and to changes in the assets, in particular to equity market movements. The IMI Pension Fund constitutes 83% of the total liabilities and 89% of the total assets for the Group’s long-term employee benefit arrangements as at 31 December 2011. It is therefore appropriate to consider the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions in respect of the Fund and these are illustrated below (net defined benefit liability as at 31 December 2011 for the IMI Pension Fund is £98.0m). Increase in net defined benefit liability as at 31 December 20111 £m Discount rate 0.1% pa lower 15 Inflation-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher 11 Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65 30 10% fall in non-bond-like² assets 66 1 in each case all other assumptions are unchanged. ² bond-like assets include cash, bonds, insurance (annuity) policies and IMI Pension Fund’s interest in the IMI Scottish Partnership. 114 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 20. Share-based payments The Group operates the following share-based payment schemes: SAYE savings-related share option scheme This scheme is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including the executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to use their own money to purchase IMI shares. SAYE options are exercisable within 6 months of the date they become exercisable or otherwise expire. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Share Incentive Plan (SIP) This scheme is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including the executive directors. This scheme covers two separate opportunities for employees to share in IMI’s success. Partnership shares – allow employees to sacrifice up to £125 per month from pre-tax pay, which is used to buy IMI shares. Matching shares may be awarded in respect of partnership shares acquired under the plan although the policy to date has been not to award any matching shares. Free shares – allows a grant of shares to employees each year, up to a maximum of 0.6% of salary capped at £3,000. Both the Partnership and Free share schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to build up their shareholdings with the Company. Global Employee Share Purchase Plan (GESPP) The IMI Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme was introduced in 2011 for USA and Germany. The German GESPP offers the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a fixed price at a future date. This scheme mirrors the UK SAYE, with a minimum / maximum savings limit per month and contract duration of 3 or 5 years. The USA GESPP also offers the RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a fixed price at a future date. The USA scheme also operates in a similar way to SAYE, with a minimum / maximum savings limit per month. However the contract duration is for a fixed period of 2 years and different taxation conditions apply for the exercising period. Performance Share Plan (PSP) The performance share plan is open to the Company’s executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group. For awards granted prior to April 2009, 50% of these PSP awards vest subject to EPS growth while the remaining 50% of awards are subject to relative TSR (total shareholder return). For awards granted in 2009, 100% of the awards granted vest subject to relative TSR performance. For awards granted in 2010 onwards, 50% of PSP awards vest subject to EPS growth, 25% vest subject to TSR, and 25% vest subject to RoOCE (Return on Operating Capital Employed). Share Matching Plan (SMP) Executive directors’ and selected senior managers’ annual incentive payments are governed by the individual’s BOARD REPORTS achievement of a Share Ownership Guideline (SOG). The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary as IMI shares, and if achieved, any incentive payment is made in cash. If not achieved, a proportion of any earned annual incentive payment will be mandatorily deferred for three years and delivered in IMI shares in the SMP. This mandated investment (if Share Ownership Guideline is not achieved) is matched from 75% up to a maximum of 200%. These matching shares can be earned if performance conditions over the three year vesting period are met. Qualifying employees may also elect to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their incentive payment, and invest personal funds, up to a maximum of 100% of their annual incentive opportunity. Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned (to a maximum of 200% of the gross equivalent number of shares invested in the plan) if performance conditions over the three year vesting period are met. Performance measures for 2009 SMP awards were exceptional, and included one third TSR, one third profit before tax (measured annually) and one third annual priority targets (measured annually). The annual priority targets were weighted equally, in 2009 between cash conversion and profit drop through and, in 2010 and 2011, between cash conversion and return on sales. The performance measure for 2010 SMP awards was Economic Value Added over the years 2010 to 2012. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Share Option Plan (SOP) Share option awards were made from 2009 to selected senior managers and certain other employees under the Share Option Plan adopted in 2009. These awards are not subject to performance conditions, but are subject to a three year vesting period. The purpose of the Plan is to give selected IMI employees (who are not executive directors of the Company) the opportunity to share in the benefits of share price growth and to increase their IMI shareholding. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 20. Share-based payments (continued) The following share-based plans are no longer operated, but awards are outstanding under them: Executive Share Option Scheme Executive share options were last awarded to executive directors in 2004 and to certain other employees in 2005 under the Executive Share Option (1995) Scheme which expired in May 2005. All outstanding options granted under this scheme were granted subject to stretching tiered performance conditions related to growth in EPS above inflation over a fixed period of three financial years. Executive share options expire if not exercised or lapsed within the periods shown below. Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) The LTIP awards were made in 2005 as part of the transition to new long term incentive arrangements introduced in 2005. The LTIP allows for cash awards to be made to executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group subject to certain performance conditions. At the end of the performance period, the net of tax value of any LTIP payments can (or in the case of executive directors, must) normally be invested in market purchases of IMI shares pursuant to a deferred share plan. Such share purchases are to be made through an employee trust and held for a further three year period. After that period, matching shares are awarded at the ratio of one additional share for every four invested with no further performance conditions. Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) Under the DBP, for executive directors and selected senior managers, a proportion of earned annual bonus was mandatorily deferred for three years, and delivered in IMI shares. Qualifying employees also elected to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their annual bonus. Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned (to a maximum of 100%, or 125% for the Chief Executive, of the deferred bonus at the entry share price level) if stretching performance conditions are met by the Company over the three year deferral period. Analysis of options granted Currently operated share-based payment schemes Performance Share Employee SAYE option Share Plan¹ Matching Plan¹ Share Option Plan Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal Number of Weighted Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable awards awards exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date thousand option price date 2003 976 201p 2006-2010 2004 801 289p 2007-2009 2005 464 380p 2008-2010 706 2008 2006 251 495p 2009-2011 716 2009 2007 204 517p 2010-2012 734 2010 2008 342 391p 2011-2013 995 2011 2009 832 201p 2012-2014 673 2012 1,783 2012 2,532 441p 2012 2010 190 511p 2013-2015 228 2013 1,145 2013 1,565 645p 2013 2011 111 849p 2014-2016 234 2014 821 2014 1,463 959p 2014 Global Employee Share Purchase Plan Weighted Number of average Normal options option exercisable thousand price date 2011 246 695p 2013-2016 116 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW Legacy share-based payment schemes Long Term Deferred Executive Option Scheme Incentive Plan 1 Bonus Plan 1 Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date 2003 2,258 257p 2006-2013 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 2004 2,199 358p 2007-2014 2005 484 421p 2008-2015 53 2008 2006 44 2009 117 2009 2007 61 2010 184 2010 2008 82 2011 183 2011 1 These options were granted at an option price of £nil. The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options outstanding are as follows: Options without Options with RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS performance conditions performance conditions Weighted Number of Range of average options option prices option price Number of options Outstanding at 1 January 2010 4,372,528 201-517p 383p 4,379,648 Exercisable at 1 January 2010 715,618 201-517p 361p 15,389 Granted 1,754,639 511-645p 631p 1,372,302 Exercised 362,498 201-517p 359p 412,652 Lapsed 417,664 201-517p 411p 538,422 BOARD REPORTS Outstanding at 31 December 2010 5,347,005 201-645p 464p 4,800,876 Exercisable at 31 December 2010 344,142 201-517p 364p 18,905 Granted 1,819,496 632-972p 917p 1,054,632 Exercised 317,903 201-645p 390p 940,459 Lapsed 612,488 201-972p 573p 171,553 Outstanding at 31 December 2011 6,236,110 201-972p 575p 4,743,496 Exercisable at 31 December 2011 205,849 257-511p 386p 89,979 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 20. Share-based payments (continued) Share options previously reported as Employee SAYE options and Executive options have been combined within Options without performance conditions. The options previously reported as Long Term Incentive Plan options, Performance Share Plan options and Deferred Bonus Plan options have been combined within Options with performance conditions. In both cases these schemes have substantially similar arrangements. Options with performance conditions were granted with an option price of £nil. The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2011 is 6.99 years (2010: 7.42 years). Included in these balances are share options that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS2. The number of these share options outstanding was as follows: 1 January 2010: 78,772 31 December 2010 and 1 January 2011: 10,022 31 December 2011: nil The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the period was £9.94 (2010: £6.91). The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted, based on a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used for grants in 2011 included a dividend yield of 3.5% (2010: 3.7%), expected share price volatility of 30% (2010: 30%), a weighted average expected life of 3.4 years (2010: 3.6 years) and a weighted average interest rate of 2.1% (2010: 2.0%). The expected volatility is wholly based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information. The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows: 2011 2010 £m £m Equity settled share-based payment expense in employee cost in the income statement 8.9 5.5 The share-based payment expense of £8.9m (2010: £5.5m) comprises a charge of £10.3m for the year offset by a credit of £1.4m (2010: £2.2m) in respect of lapses. £6.0m (2010: £2.8m) of the total charge is in respect of directors. 21. Provisions for liabilities and charges Trade Investigation Restructuring warranties costs Other Total £m £m £m £m £m Current 11.9 2.0 13.9 Non-current 32.1 1.7 13.6 47.4 At 1 January 2011 11.9 32.1 3.7 13.6 61.3 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.1 Acquisitions 0.1 0.1 Utilised during the year (15.3) (12.3) (2.1) (0.3) (30.0) Arising during the year 10.2 12.5 0.6 23.3 At 31 December 2011 6.9 32.4 1.6 13.9 54.8 Current 6.9 13.1 1.6 21.6 Non-current 19.3 13.9 33.2 6.9 32.4 1.6 13.9 54.8 118 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW The restructuring provision is expected to be fully utilised within one year. The provision balance reflects residual amounts committed but not spent in relation to a number of specific projects to reorganise operations and facilities. Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically 1-2 years, with the expected amounts falling due in less than one year separately analysed above. Amounts set aside represent management’s best estimate regarding the amount of the settlements and the timing of resolution with customers. CCI is subject to oversight by an independent compliance monitor pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement with the US Department of Justice. Provision has been made for the costs associated with the monitor over the three year GROUP OPERATING REVIEW monitor appointment period which runs until June 2013 and the cost of resolving certain investigation related matters. Other provisions are principally environmental provisions, recognising the Group’s obligation to remediate contaminated land at a number of current and former sites. Because of the long term nature of the liability, the timescales are uncertain and the provision represents management’s best estimates of these costs. 22. Share capital Number of ordinary shares of 25p each 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m £m £m Authorised 480.0 480.0 120.0 120.0 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Issued and fully paid: In issue at the start of the year 339.9 339.5 85.0 84.9 Issued to satisfy employee share schemes 0.3 0.4 0.1 In issue at the end of the year 340.2 339.9 85.0 85.0 Of which held within retained earnings 23.0 23.3 Shares issued and purchased during the year are shown in the table below: Employee Benefit Trust Treasury Other Total m m m m In issue at 31 December 2010 4.2 19.1 316.6 339.9 BOARD REPORTS New issues 0.3 0.3 Market purchases 0.8 (0.8) Allocations (1.2) 1.2 At 31 December 2011 3.8 19.1 317.3 340.2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 22. Share capital (continued) During the year 0.3m shares were issued under employee share schemes realising £1.2m. The Company made market purchases of a total of 0.8m (2010: 3.6m) of its own shares with an aggregate market value of £8.0m (2010: £29.5m) and a nominal value of £0.2m (2010: £0.9m) including dealing costs of £nil (2010: £0.2m). Of the 23.0m (2010: 23.3m) shares held within retained earnings, 3.8m (2010: 4.2m) shares with an aggregate market value of £29.1m (2010: £39.7m) are held in trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting. Dividends After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. 2011 2010 £m £m 19.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2010: 17.0p) 60.3 53.9 The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year: 2011 2010 £m £m 17.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2010: 13.2p) 53.9 42.2 11.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2010: 9.0p) 34.9 28.7 88.8 70.9 Share options The majority of UK employees may participate in the IMI Sharesave Plan (2004) and selected senior executives within the Group participate in the IMI Executive Share Option (1995) Scheme and the IMI Performance Share Plan. At 31 December 2011, options to purchase ordinary shares had been granted to and not exercised by participants of IMI share option schemes as follows: Date of Number grant of shares Price Date of exercise IMI SAYE Share Option 04.04.06 2,278 494.55p 01.08.11 (1994) Scheme 16.04.07 35,317 517.18p 01.08.12 14.04.08 74,788 391.41p 01.08.11 or 01.08.13 09.04.09 709,599 201.36p 01.08.12 or 01.08.14 06.04.10 164,183 510.92p 01.08.13 or 01.08.15 06.04.11 105,838 849.02p 01.08.14 or 01.08.16 Global Employee Share 19.12.11 173,930 632.00p 01.08.13 Purchase Plan 19.12.11 71,602 849.02p 01.08.14 or 01.08.16 IMI Executive Share 02.04.03 27,500 256.9p 02.04.06 to 02.04.13 Option (1995) Scheme 24.03.04 44,590 358.0p 24.03.07 to 24.03.14 23.03.05 129,235 420.5p 23.03.08 to 23.03.15 IMI 2005 Long Term 13.05.05 3,050 13.05.08 to 13.05.15 Incentive Plan (also known as 03.04.06 6,520 03.04.09 to 03.04.16 IMI Performance Share Plan) 05.04.07 9,768 29.03.10 to 05.04.17 04.04.08 70,641 04.04.11 to 04.04.18 10.03.09 673,400 10.03.12 to 10.03.19 07.05.10 227,700 07.05.13 to 07.05.20 10.03.11 234,000 10.03.14 to 10.03.21 IMI Share Option Plan (2009) 03.09.09 1,997,000 440.93p 03.09.12 to 03.09.19 22.03.10 1,317,250 645.00p 22.03.13 to 22.03.20 23.03.11 1,310,500 971.83p 23.03.14 to 23.03.21 19.12.11 72,500 719.33p 19.12.14 to 19.12.21 120 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW 23. Cash flow notes a) Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents Restated 2011 2010 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents in current assets 147.9 122.9 Bank overdraft in current liabilities (0.4) (2.5) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Cash and cash equivalents 147.5 120.4 b) Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 27.9 41.1 Net repayment/(drawdown) of borrowings 16.0 (14.2) Cash inflow 43.9 26.9 Net debt acquired (2.5) Currency translation differences (4.2) 0.1 Movement in net borrowings in the year 37.2 27.0 Net borrowings at the start of the year (145.4) (172.4) Net borrowings at the end of the year (108.2) (145.4) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS c) Analysis of net debt Borrowings and finance leases due Cash and cash within one after more Total equivalent year than one year net debt £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2011 120.4 (13.2) (252.6) (145.4) Net debt acquired (2.5) (2.5) Cash flow excluding settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 22.3 (0.1) 16.1 38.3 Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 5.6 5.6 Other currency translation differences (0.8) (3.4) (4.2) BOARD REPORTS At 31 December 2011 147.5 (13.3) (242.4) (108.2) 24. Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2011 2010 Land and Land and buildings Others buildings Others £m £m £m £m Within one year 21.0 5.2 16.1 4.9 In the second to fifth year 37.6 12.2 30.7 9.9 After five years 23.4 26.7 1.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82.0 17.4 73.5 16.3 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group primarily for certain of its office properties. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 25. Commitments Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date amounted to £7.3m (2010: £6.1m). 26. Contingencies Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £95m (2010: £86m). 27. Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Executive directors are considered to be the key management personnel. Remuneration is as follows: 2011 2010 £m £m Short term employee benefits 5.2 2.1 Contributions to executive retirement plan 1.8 Share-based payment 6.0 2.8 Total 11.2 6.7 Short-term employee benefits comprise salary and benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year. There are no other related party transactions. 122 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS independent auditor’s report to the members of IMI plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes C1 to C11. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 68 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: • give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2011; • have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and • have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and • the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements. Matters on which we are required to report by exception BOARD REPORTS We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 required us to report to you if, in our opinion: • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or • the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2011. John C Flaherty (Senior statutory auditor) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 1 March 2012 The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS company balance sheet at 31 December 2011 2011 2010 Note £m £m Fixed Assets Investments C6 574.0 574.0 Current assets Debtors (including £1.9m due after more than one year (2010: £9.2m)) C7 27.6 31.2 Cash at bank and in hand 0.9 0.8 28.5 32.0 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Other creditors C8 (50.6) (48.6) Net current liabilities (22.1) (16.6) Total assets less current liabilities 551.9 557.4 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Borrowings C9 (22.4) (22.9) Net assets 529.5 534.5 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C10 85.0 85.0 Share premium account C10 169.3 168.1 Capital redemption reserve C10 7.9 7.9 Profit and loss account C10 267.3 273.5 Equity shareholders’ funds 529.5 534.5 Approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by: Robert Quarta Chairman 124 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Notes to the Financial Statements C1. Significant accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items considered material in relation to the financial statements, except where otherwise noted below: Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards except for certain financial instruments as defined by FRS26 ‘Financial instruments: measurement’ which are stated at fair value. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. Under FRS1 ‘Cash flow statements’, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the Company is included in its own published consolidated financial statements. The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions contained in FRS8 ‘Related party disclosures’ and has not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly owned entities which form part of the Group. Related party transactions with the Company’s key management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67 and in note 27 of the Group financial statements. The Company has adopted the requirements of FRS29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ and has taken the exemption under that standard from disclosure on the grounds that the Group financial statements contain disclosures in compliance with IFRS7. Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of transaction. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation included in the profit and loss account. Investments The Company’s cost of investment in subsidiary undertakings is stated at the aggregate of (a) the cash consideration and either (b) the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration when Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 applies or (c) in all other cases the market value of the Company’s shares on the date they were issued as consideration. Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS19. BOARD REPORTS Financial instruments The principal financial instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate swaps. These instruments are used for hedging purposes in line with the Group’s risk management policy. Interest differentials are taken to net interest in the profit and loss account. If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time. Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits as set out in note 20 to the Group financial statements. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options are recharged to the principal employing company. When a parent grants share-based payments to employees of a subsidiary, UITF41 ‘Scope of FRS20’ and UITF44 ‘Group FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and Treasury Share Transactions’ states that the parent receives services from the employees indirectly through its subsidiary which should be accounted for as an increase in the investment in the subsidiary by the parent. IMI plc Annual Report 2011 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Notes to the Financial Statements C1. Significant accounting policies (continued) Equity and equity-related compensation benefits (continued) Amounts recharged to subsidiaries are recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in the subsidiary as this recharge is considered to form part of the determination of the net capital contribution from the parent in respect of the share-based payment arrangement. Accordingly, there is no overall increase in the investment in subsidiaries recorded in the Company’s financial statements. The recharged amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within one year. The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options at the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised. Treasury shares The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase. If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of the cancelled shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve. Dividends or shares presented within shareholders’ funds Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. C2. Remuneration of directors The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67. C3. Remuneration of auditors The detailed information concerning auditor’s remuneration is shown in note 7 of the Group financial statements. C4. Staff numbers and costs The number of people employed by the Company, including directors, during the year was 27 (2010: 25) all of whom were employed in administrative roles. The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking. The Company participates in the IMI Pension Fund, which is a defined benefit scheme in which the assets are held independently. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes and consequently in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9(b) the Company is required to account for pension costs as if the scheme were a defined contribution scheme. Note 19 to the Group financial statements provides further details regarding the defined benefit scheme. 126 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW C5. Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2011 2010 £m £m Final dividends paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year 53.9 42.2 Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 34.9 28.7 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 88.8 70.9 Dividends paid in the year of £88.8m respresent 28.0p per share (2010: 22.2p). After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. 2011 2010 £m £m 19.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2010: 17.0p) 60.3 53.9 Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the final dividend paid. This is a result of the final number RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS of qualifying shares entitled to dividend differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date. C6. Fixed assets investments Subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total £m £m £m At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 at cost and net book value 170.1 403.9 574.0 Details of subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2011 are shown on pages 130 and 131. C7. Debtors BOARD REPORTS 2011 2010 £m £m Falling due for payment within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 24.1 17.3 Prepayments and accrued income 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax 3.3 Other financial assets 1.2 1.0 25.7 22.0 Falling due for payment after one year: Deferred tax 6.4 Other financial assets 1.9 2.8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.9 9.2 27.6 31.2 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Notes to the Financial Statements C8. Other creditors falling due within one year 2011 2010 £m £m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 49.2 46.9 Other payables 0.9 0.8 Accruals and deferred income 0.5 0.9 50.6 48.6 C9. Borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18 in the Group financial statements. 2011 2010 £m £m Due after more than one year: Unsecured US loan notes 2014 22.4 22.9 Terms and debt repayment schedule 2011 2010 £m £m Debt can be analysed as falling due: Between two and three years 22.4 Between three and four years 22.9 22.4 22.9 128 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW C10. Share capital and reserves Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2010 84.9 166.6 7.9 170.6 430.0 Retained profit for the year 197.8 197.8 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.5 1.6 Dividends paid* (70.9) (70.9) Share-based payments 5.5 5.5 Shares held in trust for employee share schemes* (29.5) (29.5) At 31 December 2010 85.0 168.1 7.9 273.5 534.5 Retained profit for the year 81.5 81.5 Shares issued in the year 1.2 1.2 Dividends paid* (88.8) (88.8) Share-based payments 8.9 8.9 Shares held in trust for employee share schemes* (7.8) (7.8) At 31 December 2011 85.0 169.3 7.9 267.3 529.5 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Share capital 2011 2010 £m £m Authorised 480.0m (2010: 480.0m) ordinary shares of 25p each 120.0 120.0 Issued and fully paid 340.2m (2010: 339.9m) ordinary shares of 25p each 85.0 85.0 During the year 0.3m shares were issued under employee share schemes realising £1.2m. * Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in note 22 to the Group financial statements and details of dividends paid and proposed in the year are shown in note C5. BOARD REPORTS C11. Contingencies Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £70.0m (2010: £64.8m). There is a right of set-off with three of the Company’s bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries. Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. The Company, as parent of the IMI Group, has contingent liabilities in respect of contingencies within the Group as described in note 26 to the Group financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings listed are those which in the opinion of the directors principally affect the figures shown in the financial statements. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Annual Return of IMI plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies during 2012. Except where indicated, the undertakings are subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom and the share capital consists of ordinary shares only. The principal country in which each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation. IMI plc’s effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd which is held directly by IMI plc. The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group financial statements. The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these financial statements. Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been filed at Companies House. Fluid Controls Aero Dynamiek BV Netherlands IMI Norgren Herion Pvt Ltd India Orton srl Italy Asterm SAS France IMI Norgren Oy Finland Pneumatex & CIE NV Belgium Buschjost GmbH Germany IMI Norgren SA Spain Pneumatex BV Netherlands CCI AG Switzerland IMI Norgren SA de CV Mexico Pneumatex GmbH Germany CCI America du Sol Comerico de IMI Scott Ltd Pneumatex SARL France Equipamentos Industrials Ltda Brazil IMI Webber Ltd Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment CCI Czech Republic sro Czech Republic Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides Co Ltd China (70%) CCI Flow Control (Shanghai) Co. Ltd SAS France Stainless Steel Fasteners Ltd China Newman Hattersley Ltd Canada STI srl Italy CCI Italy srl Italy Norgren A/S Denmark TA Heimeier GmbH Germany CCI KK Japan Norgren AG Switzerland TA Hydronics AB Sweden CCI Ltd Korea Norgren AS Norway TA Hydronics AS Norway CCI Valve Technology AB Sweden Norgren Automation Solutions LLC USA TA Hydronics BV Netherlands CCI Valve Technology GmbH Austria Norgren BV Netherlands TA Hydronics GesmbH Austria Control Components Inc USA Norgren Co Ltd China TA Hydronics Ltd Control Components India Pty Ltd India Norgren European Logistics Company TA Hydronics Oy Finland Eley Ltd Ltd TA Hydronics SA France Engineering Appliances Ltd Norgren GesmbH Austria TA Hydronics SA Switzerland Flow Design Inc USA Norgren GmbH Germany TA Hydronics Switzerland AG Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Norgren GT Development Corporation Switzerland Germany Inc USA TA Isitma ve Havalandirma Sanayi Fluid Automation Systems SA Norgren Inc USA Ticaret ve Servis Limited Şirketi Turkey Switzerland Norgren Kloehn Inc USA TA Regulator d.o.o Slovenia Fluid Automation Systems Technologies Norgren Ltd Th Jansen-Armaturen Gmbh Germany SA Switzerland Norgren Ltd Hong Kong Thompson Valves Ltd Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Germany Norgren Ltd New Zealand Tour & Andersson A/S Denmark Hochdruck-Reduziertechnik GmbH Norgren Ltda Brazil Tour & Andersson NV/SA Belgium Germany Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd China Tour & Andersson SA Spain IMI Components Inc USA Norgren Manufacturing de Mexico SA Truflo Marine Ltd IMI Components Ltd de CV Mexico Truflo Rona SA Belgium IMI Indoor Climate Trading (Shanghai) Norgren NV Belgium Zimmermann & Jansen Technologies Co Ltd China Norgren Pte Ltd Singapore GmbH Germany IMI International Kft Hungary Norgren Pty Ltd Australia Zimmermann & Jansen Inc USA IMI International LLC Russia Norgren SAS France IMI International sro Czech Republic Norgren SpA Italy IMI International Sp z.o.o. Poland Norgren Sweden AB Sweden 130 Subsidiary undertakings BUSINESS OVERVIEW Retail Dispense 3Wire Group Inc USA IMI Cornelius (Tianjin) Co Ltd China IMI Cornelius Italia srl Italy Artform International Inc USA IMI Cornelius (UK) Ltd IMI Cornelius Österreich GesmbH Artform International Ltd IMI Cornelius Australia Pty Ltd Australia Austria Cannon Equipment Company USA IMI Cornelius de Mexico SA de CV IMI Cornelius (Singapore) Pte Ltd DCI Marketing Inc USA Mexico Singapore Display Technologies LLC USA IMI Cornelius Deutschland GmbH IMI Cornelius Ukraine LLC Ukraine GROUP OPERATING REVIEW IMI Cornelius España SA Spain Germany IMI Manufacturing de Mexico SA de IMI Cornelius Europe SA Belgium IMI Cornelius Hellas SA Greece CV Mexico IMI Cornelius (Pacific) Ltd Hong Kong IMI Cornelius Inc USA Corporate IMI Group Ltd IMI Americas Inc USA Brookvale International Insurance Ltd IMI Kynoch Ltd IMI Overseas Holdings Inc USA Bermuda IMI Overseas Investments Ltd* IMI Germany Holding Limited & Co KG IMI Property Investments Ltd Germany * This entity holds debt listed on the official list of the Channel Islands Stock Exchange. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees at 31 December 2011 and is not required to be audited. United Kingdom 2,554 Continental Europe 6,494 Americas 4,709 Asia/Pacific 1,859 Others 82 Total 15,698 BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS five year summary Continuing operations 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 £m £m £m £m £m Revenue £m 2,131 Income statement 1,901 1,911 Revenue 1,599 1,901 1,792 1,911 2,131 1,792 1,599 Segmental revenue* 1,599 1,897 1,785 1,917 2,135 Segmental operating profit* 207.8 266.3 234.2 319.7 374.1 Adjusted profit before tax* 205.5 254.7 211.7 304.4 363.4 Restructuring costs (22.0) (19.6) (34.9) (16.0) (23.5) Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme 15.1 Investigation costs and fines (4.9) (26.3) Acquired intangible amortisation and impairment (10.9) (13.2) (7.2) (7.0) (32.3) Other income 1.7 07 08 09 10 11 Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contracts Adjusted profit before tax* £m gains/(losses) 1.6 (19.6) 16.6 9.6 (6.2) 363 Profit before tax from continuing 304 operations 171.0 176.0 186.2 306.1 301.4 255 EBITDA† 220 269 262 369 392 212 * before exceptional items 205 † earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment and other income. Group sales by destination 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 £m £m £m £m £m UK 188 183 132 141 136 07 08 09 10 11 Germany 209 266 234 261 296 Rest of Europe 423 533 524 542 577 USA 460 517 491 543 580 2011 sales by Asia/Pacific 202 249 278 285 319 geographic destination** Rest of World 117 149 126 145 227 RoW UK 6% 11% Germany 1,599 1,897 1,785 1,917 2,135 Asia/ Pacific 14% 15% Reversal of economic hedge contract losses/(gains) 4 7 (6) (4) 1,599 1,901 1,792 1,911 2,131 USA Rest of Europe 27% 27% ** before reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses 132 Five year summary BUSINESS OVERVIEW Earnings and dividends 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Adjusted earnings per share (pre-restructuring) 41.9p 54.1p 45.8p 66.3p 81.5p Earnings per share 35.4p 35.4p 40.8p 70.4p 63.2p Ordinary dividend per share 20.2p 20.7p 21.2p 26.0p 30.0p GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Balance sheet 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 £m £m £m £m £m Segmental net assets 771 973 850 985 997 Other non-operating liabilities (excluding borrowings) (125) (212) (276) (264) (275) Net debt (233) (299) (172) (145) (108) Net assets 413 462 402 576 614 Statistics 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental revenue 13.0% 14.0% 13.1% 16.7% 17.5% RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental net assets 27.0% 27.4% 27.6% 32.5% 37.5% Effective tax rate 31.1% 31.0% 30.0% 30.0% 28.0% Net assets per share (excluding treasury shares) 128.1p 144.4p 126.1p 180.5p 193.5p Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds 57.3% 66.0% 43.0% 27.7% 19.2% Net debt: EBITDA 1.1 1.1 0.7 0.4 0.3 BOARD REPORTS EBITDA: Interest 17 17 14 24 23 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Shareholder information Announcement of trading results The trading results for the Group for the first half of 2012 will be announced on 23 August 2012. The trading results for the full year ending 31 December 2012 will be announced in March 2013. Interim management statements will be issued in April and November 2012. Dividend payment Dividends on ordinary shares are normally paid as follows: Interim: mid October Final: mid May Share prices and capital gains tax The closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 2011 was 760.00p (2010: 945.00p). The market value of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 March 1982, as calculated for capital gains tax purposes, was 53.5p per share. The Company’s SEAQ number is 51443. Enquiries about shareholdings For enquiries concerning shareholders’ personal holdings, please contact the Company’s Registrar: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. Telephone 0871 384 2916, or from overseas, +44 121 415 7047. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other telephony provider costs may vary. Corporate Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) By arrangement with Equiniti Financial Services Limited, an IMI single company ISA is now being operated. A brochure, application form and further information can be obtained by contacting the Equiniti ISA helpline on 0871 384 2244. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other telephony provider costs may vary. Share Dealing Service Managed by Equiniti, the Company’s Registrar, the IMI plc Share Dealing Service provides shareholders with a simple way of buying and selling IMI ordinary shares. Telephone 08456 037 037. Full written details can be obtained from the Secretary’s Department, IMI plc, Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7XZ. Telephone 0121 717 3700. American Depository Receipts IMI plc have an American Depositary Receipt (ADR) programme that trades on the Over-The-Counter (OTC) market in the US. ADR enquiries are directed to Citibank Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence, RI 02940-3077, USA. Toll-free number in the USA is 1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237), or email citibank@shareholders-online.com. Ordinary shareholders Number of Balance as at Range holdings % 31 December 2011 % 1-500 shares 6,101 34.93 1,664,876 0.52 501-1,000 shares 4,910 28.11 3,631,040 1.13 1,001-10,000 shares 5,749 32.92 13,294,512 4.14 10,001-100,000 shares 406 2.32 14,065,454 4.38 100,001-Highest 300 1.72 288,412,918 89.83 Total 17,466 100.00 321,068,800 100.00 19,124,700 treasury shares are excluded from the above totals. 134 Shareholder information BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GENERAL information Headquarters and registered office Lakeside Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham B37 7XZ Telephone: 0121 717 3700 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Website address www.imiplc.com Secretary John O’Shea Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Telephone: 0871 384 2916* Or from overseas, +44 121 415 7047 Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday Solicitors Pinsent Masons LLP Allen & Overy LLP 3 Colmore Circus One Bishops Square Birmingham London B4 6BH E1 6AO Stockbrokers J.P. Morgan Cazenove Citi 10 Aldermanbury 33 Canada Square BOARD REPORTS London Canary Wharf EC2V 7RF London E14 5LB Auditor Ernst & Young LLP No. 1 Colmore Square Birmingham B4 6HQ IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275 *Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other telephony provider costs may vary. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc Annual Report 2011 135 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 Index Accounting policies 75-84 Intangible assets 95 Annual general meeting 41 Interest income and expense 91-92 At-a-glance 2-3 Internal control 47 Audit Committee 44 Inventories 97 Auditor’s remuneration 92 Auditor’s reports 69, 123 Key performance indicators 14-15 Balance sheet 72 Nominations Committee 45 Board of Directors 36-37 Outlook 19 Borrowing facilities 98, 102-104 Business review 20-21 Pensions 108-114 People 8-9 Cash flow statement 74 Principal risks and uncertainties 34-35 Chairman’s statement 16-17 Property, plant and equipment 96 Chief Executive’s review 18-19 Corporate governance 42-47 Registrars 134-135 Remuneration Committee 45 Deferred tax 96-97 Remuneration report 48-67 Directors Research and development 38 Interests 67 Responsible business report 30-33 Remuneration summary 63 Report 38-41 Segmental information 85-87 Responsibility statement 68 Share capital 38-39, 119-120 Dividends 38,120 Shareholder information 134 Donations 40 Strategy 4-5 Fluid technologies 6-7 Earnings per share 94 Growth drivers 10-13 Employees 94, 131 Niche leadership 8-9 Environment 15, 29-31 Statement of changes in equity 73 Executive Committee 45 Statement of comprehensive income 71 Financial review 22-27 Subsidiary undertakings 130-131 Five year summary 132-133 Substantial shareholdings 39 General information 135 Taxation 93 Geographic distribution of employees 131 The IMI Way 28-29 Going concern 27 Treasury policy 26-27 Goodwill 95 Total Shareholder Return 56-58 Health and safety 15, 29-30, 40 Website 135 Income statement 70 136 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 77752_pp69-136.indd 136 15/03/2012 17:16 Printed on Revive Pure White Silk a recycled paper produced using 100% recycled waste at a mill that has been awarded the ISO140001 certificate for environmental management. The pulp is bleached using a totally chlorine free (TCF) process. IMI plc Lakeside Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham B37 7XZ United Kingdom www.imiplc.com
