Environmental Protection Procedure and Policy Introduction The environmental issue has been the subject of much all among statesmen, politicians, scientists, the environmentalists as well as among entrepreneurs, workers and the public at large. It is indeed true that in this case, some people have really been very much aware of importance of natural preservation, because it constitutes an absolute requirement to guarantee the continuity of life of future generation, besides the natural resources themselves constitutes the basic capital of our nation development in realizing just and prosperous community. PARAMI ENERGY Services Co., Ltd. cares very much about the environmental protection which is started with the protection / maintenance of working environment. A. Maintenance of working environment 1. The supervisor should truly emphasize and clear instruction to all workers about the importance of environment maintenance and cleanliness in order to stay safe, healthy and comfortable. 2. All dormitories, passageway and stairs should be cleaned and free from working tools, garbage, hoses and slippery things such as grease oil, etc. 3. Every place of work should have a special place for storing tools. Others should be racked for storing. 4. Waste basket should be available in adequate number around location and the emptying be scheduled regularly. 5. Garbage is easy burn and should be placed in a special place for easily burn garbage. 6. Flammable materials should be stored in special place with good ventilation. 7. Passages to safety equipment such as fire extinguisher, spray hoses should be free from the obstacles of other things. 8. Solid garbage such as plastic, rubber etc. should be put in special garbage cans. 9. Hazardous Waste Waste chemicals must be properly labeled, dated, and sorted. Follow these rules for keeping waste chemicals: a. Place a Hazardous Waste label on the container. These are available from the Department of Environmental Health & Safety. b. Write the name of the chemical on the label. The major components or hazardous chemicals should be listed. c. Write the date on the label when waste is first placed in the container. Write the date on the label when the container is full. d. Box the containers for easy carrying. Label the box Environmental Health & Safety. 10. Radioactive Waste Instructions for proper collection and storage of radioactive waste before pick-up are given below. a. All containers for waste must be labeled with a radioactive sticker, the name of the authorized user, and the isotope stored. When the container is full, the date and amount of isotope contained must be added. b. All containers must remain closed except when adding waste. c. Liquid waste containers: Gallon or larger size only Do not fill completely full. Leave at least 3 headspace. Must have lid that seals securely. d. It is forbidden to throw dangerous radioactive substance in the river. 11. Sharps and Medical Waste Sharps are to be placed in a puncture proof container. The management will provide, free of charge, 1-gallon containers for sharps accumulation. These containers are to be used for the disposal of needles, syringes, razor blades, scalpel blades, and other contaminated broken or sharp items. You are responsible for the packaging of uncontaminated broken glass and taking broken glass to the dumpster. Custodians do not have to dispose of broken glass. Do not overfill sharps containers. Do not place sharps in biohazard bags. Biohazard bags are for solid waste such as gauze, gloves, and bandages. Anything which could puncture the container must be placed in a sharps container. Dead animals and animal parts may be discarded via the medical waste program. This waste must be kept frozen until pick-up. Someone in the laboratory must be available at pickup time to ensure the proper material is discarded. B. Maintenance of the Environmental Around Living Quarters 1. The sleeping quarters should be kept clean and neat all the time. It is not allowed to lie down on the bed with working clothes on and dirty shoes / socks. 2. Avoid air population caused by engines as well as chemicals dust. 3. Avoid indiscriminate felling of tree which may damage the environment. 4. No smoking is allowed on bed. 5. The toilet facility should be kept clean and hygiene. 6. The floor of the dining room should be disinfected. 7. The dining room should be cleaned after used. 8. Towel and laundry should be washed immediately after wearing. Never put dirty clothes in the sleeping quarters. 9. There should be no flies, ants and cockroaches in the dining room. 10. All food should be stored on anti-rust racks or in a certain place made by available. 11. The catering crews must be wear uniforms and be clean, and should wear shoes. 12. The hand of crews should be clean. The nails may not be allowed to grow long. 13. The Camp supervisor is most responsible for the hygiene of the camp and environment as a whole. 14. Crumbs and food remnants should be collected and put in the garbage can and make sure that it is placed at a distance away from the camp.
