About this Report: Time Covered Jan 01, 2011 – Dec 31, 2011. Where appropriate, the report includes A “red” company serving the needs of socialism with Chinese characteristics additional content and information that pre-dates the stated reporting period. A “green” company advocating technological innovation and environmental protection Reporting Cycle Our sustainability report is published annually, this being the sixth reA “blue” company advancing via continuous innovation and internationalization port since 2006. Main Contents This report outlines our performance in 2011 on safety, environmental, economic and social issues. It includes information and typical cases from documents, statements and information platforms of the Company and its grassroots-level enterprises. Persist in adhering to and serving national interests and development strategies, so as to set an example in promoting economic and social development in all respects. Compilation Conformance This report is compiled in accordance with the Guidelines on PerformPersist in scientific development and technological innovation, so as to set an example in ing Social Responsibility by Central Enterprises released by the Statebuilding a resource-conserving and environmentally-friendly society. owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) of the State Council and in light of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Guidelines on Persist in pursuing operational performance in a rational way, so as to set an example in Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises promoting harmony between enterprises and society. (CASS-CSR 2.0) by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility by International Organization for Standardization, and Guidelines on Social Responsibilities Persist in relying on employees and working with the public to develop the enterprise so of Chinese Industrial Enterprises and Industrial Associations by the as to set an example in putting people first and sharing benefits. China Federation of Industrial Economics (CFIE). Major Changes Persist in contributing to society and benefiting the people, so as to set an example in practicing social ethics. The report’s main theme is “Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best.” It further improves Huaneng’s sustainable development model, systematically illustrates the concepts, objectives, measures, performance and typical cases of the company in promoting safe development, optimal development, green development, healthy development, international development and harmonious development. The report includes a special feature that demonstrates the Company’s practice of building a world-class energy group and creating excellence. References to China Huaneng Group In this report, “China Huaneng Group”, “Huaneng Group”, “Huaneng”, “the Company” and “we” refer to China Huaneng Group. Online Access to the Report The report is prepared and released in Chinese and English. For more information, please go to our website: http//www.chng.com.cn. Huaneng’s Sustainable Development Model Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Contents Safety Responsibility Message from Company Leaders 01 Putting People First and Topic: Creating a World-class Enterprise 05 Safe Development Topic: Excelling in Performance in Huaneng 07 GovernStrategy and Management 09 Inten Staff ment and sive Investors aMan form ageTrans men t and tion, Putting People First and Safe Development 19 Heal ading thy Upgr l Deve ptima mental Respons and O mic Responsibility lopTransformation, Upgrading and Optimal Development 29 Environ men lop t Social Deve Econo Clients Culture Groups and me tn Organiza37 ibilit tions Energy Conservation, Emission Reduction and Green Development Strategy Management Intensive Management and Healthy Development 45 y Energ y Global CommuPartners Conse rvaGlobal Perspective and International Development 55 nity and the Public tion, PerspecEmiss tive and ion InternaReduc tion Mutual Benefit and Harmonious Development 63 and G tional Counterparts reen Develo Developpmen t Prospect in 2012 71 ment Indicator Index 73 Mutual Benefit and Harmonious Development Rating the Report 80 Social Responsibility Terminology 81 Building a comprehensive energy group with top international competitiveness that regards power generation as its core business, coal development as its foundation, finance as its supporting business, and technology as the driving force, while synergizing various industries. Message from Company Leaders In 2011, facing unprecedented difficulties and a complex and the management level of the enterprise, strengthen Party difficult business situation, we have earnestly implemented construction and strive to enhance the scientific level of Party the Scientific Outlook on Development. Adhering to the construction work. working ideas of “transforming development modes, adjusting structurally, intensifying management, raising efficiency, In today’s world, social, environmental and resource problems controlling risks, improving quality and pioneering as a firsthave become the focus of global concern and a bottleneck of class enterprise,” we have conquered difficult problems, made economic and social development, and are major issues facing exciting achievements and laid a good foundation for building the development and progress of human society generally. a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness. By As an energy group with electricity as our core business, we the end of 2011, our domestic and foreign installed electricity have always been highly concerned about national energy generation capacity had reached 125.38 GW, ranking first in Asia security and the impact of fossil energy development on the and second in the world. We achieved an annual generating environment. We continue on the road of green, low-carbon capacity of 604.6 billion KWh, coal production of 64.06 million and circular economic development, and strive to realize cleaner tons, and consolidated operating income of 270.3 billion Yuan. development. Furthermore, we consciously abide by the basic Our production and operation targets are among the best in principles in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC); comply the industry. We have improved the company’s overall strength, with the relevant laws and regulations of the state, international competitiveness, and sustainable development capabilities; conventions and international practices; and manage achieved A-level performance as evaluated by the State-owned credit according to the law. We also continue to deepen our Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC); and management and operations to tap our potential and increase ranked 276th globally among Fortune 500 companies. efficiency, ensuring the maintenance and appreciation of stateowned assets, and attaching importance to the interests of In 2012, we will take building a world-class enterprise with stakeholders to achieve mutual benefit and win-win outcomes. Cao Peixi Huang Yongda international competitiveness as the driving force, take President of China Huaneng Group and Vice Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee improving the quality and efficiency as the center, and take Responsibility carries force and wins the future. We will always Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Vice President of China Huaneng Group speeding up transformation and upgrading as the focus. We keep in mind the economic, political and social responsibilities will focus on changing our development modes, advancing of the enterprise, and enhance its sustainable development the ideas of getting stronger and better, as well as give priority capabilities with high standards and high quality, so as to take to further strengthening safety management and promoting important strides on the road to build a world-class enterprise. Central enterprises, as the backbone of the Chinese Republic, are an important pillar of the national economy. In the course of their the development of a safe production management system. economic activities, central enterprises voluntarily implement their social responsibilities, which not only necessary for sustainable While making great efforts to strengthen business management development, but also a duty of companies as citizens in society. Over the years, as one of the key state-owned enterprises directly to increase efficiency, we will improve development quality managed by the central government, China Huaneng Group has consciously integrated social responsibility into its enterprise to realize effective, moderate and orderly development. We development strategy, business management and the entire process of building its corporate culture. Adhering to the “Three-color” will also strengthen capital operations and the work of “going corporate mission, we are committed to promoting the sustainable development of power and energy in China. Also persisting in the global” to promote the readjustment of capital, improve our road of safe development, optimal development, green development, healthy development, international development and harmonious technological innovation systems and mechanisms, intensify development, we have made efforts to give back to society with the fruits of development. We have built a vast stage for staff energy conservation and push ahead with the construction development, created development opportunities for partners, and provided sincere help to the public. What’s more, we have realized of an excellent and environmentally-friendly enterprise. with balanced speed, scale, quality and efficiency, achieved coordination between development levels and the resource environment, Furthermore, we will advance reform and innovation to improve and made positive contributions to the comprehensive and rapid development of the economy and society. March 2012 01 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 02 Members of the Management Team Stakeholders Im p s Pa lem ng s r rel ticip nt ea e eti n t me estio Ac ev an ate i rnes van gg c t C o ept s state stu ly na n t r ele ng su d t n rt i mak i de o r d i uper mini ies a iona pa ve na v lop t i o ision tries nd d l ene s c t ive ive in me n w an an is rgy a at nt i t h d a d co cuss poli an initi ke l o c sses mm ions cies Ta e the al sm i Ta k g o ent ttees cond Saf ve uc es rn ted Va u m en by lue pply tf sta p o or ial t r A b e-ow serva owe e f p co oc mm i ns i n reg d i n g ed a tion a r on on on s a t i ns ati ing ulatio b y r sets nd gr cip io oci t n e o r t i nizat f Ass Ret o l s, p l e ayi v a n t w th tp a ga so urn aw ng of o r d or rticle to tax l a w s pp n inv S u ups a the A est ors e s a cco an d gro de by rd i tions Govern Ab aniza men d org t an n d in sa up ve gro sto Give full play to the ic al r role of the Labor So s Employment Union Attend industrial conferExperience sharing Career development Ensure transparency Industry coun ences Technical exchange Rights and interests of company affairs terp Technical competition Improve Workers’ Competition and Staff protection art Congress system and exchange cooperation Health and safety Establish multiple s Routine communication Corporate culture communication channels th nd ya nit Su Cli mu ilit y p en Com Co nt ab frie ply ts me d st nd ad Su e on n e pu l pp y an qua vir ya b li ly s d te en on c afe reas , reli ity rm on ab un y ha lfare Pa rt n er s an dh ab le mm unit we igh ly-p , env Co lic -q ric iro mm pub Ma e ing ua nm Su i lity d ele ild l E x ntai ctr enta bu cia ec n co al ic p lly ity s So Strategic cooperatio Ag ut c los res un es itie n, trust commitments r Ma eem o n e rel e ou owe us tiv rce r mm re ca n ac Implement National a License System int en gr t s co ts id i o lfa ain tio Shoulder responsibili ns in co we hip via ties in purchasing and sta te nt ipa ublic y-alle influence bil ra wi ity th rtic ct p rt of sa cl Pa ort ve th n d ient pp ze po ep Po s ow ni er we ga gr rP Or id ur Cao Peixi, President of CHNG and Vice Secretary of the CPC Ma Jing, Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Discipline ch as e Huaneng Committee ( third from left in the front row ) Inspection Group Leader ( third from left in the back row ) Negotiations for strategic cooperation High-level meetings Huang Yongda, Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Hu Jianmin, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Routine business communication Vice President of CHNG ( third from right in the front row ) Huaneng Committee ( second from right in the back row ) Zhang Tingke, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Kou Wei, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee ( second from left in the front row ) Huaneng Committee ( second from left in the back row ) Na Xizhi, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Wu Dawei, Chief Economic Manager of CHNG ( first from right in Huaneng Committee ( second from right in the front row ) the back row ) Huang Long, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Hu Shihai, Chief Engineer of CHNG ( first from left in the back Stakeholders Major Concerns Communication and Exchange Huaneng Committee ( first from left in the front row ) row ) Guo Junming, Chief Accountant of CHNG and Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee ( first from right in the front row ) 03 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 04 Creating a World-class Enterprise One driving force, One center, creating a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness; improving development quality and efficiency; One focus, speeding up transformation and upgrading. Topic Guiding Ideology Objectives of Development Using scientific development as the theme, speeding up transformation of the development mode as the mainline, enhancing international competitiveness as the core, international benchmarking as the measure, and Strong independent Strong resource allocaStrong risk control Strong talent team advanced objectives as the guide, we will increase pressure, enhance motive power, make efforts to promote innovation capabilities tion capabilities capabilities seven strategies and intensify three guarantees to enhance our vitality and strength, and strive for excellence. We will also improve the overall capability of the Company and the quality of its development so that we will take the Excellent business Excellent corporate Excellent layout Excellent social lead to become a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness and make new and greater contribuperformance governance and structure image tions to build a moderately prosperous society. Basis of Development Creating a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness The installed capacity ranks first in Asia and second in the world Seven Strategies Eight First-class achievements Three Guarantees Ranks No. 276 among the World’s Top 500 companies ◎ Strategy of transformation First-class independent innova◎ Deepening reform to provide and upgrading tion capabilities dynamic guarantees for the creation of a world-class enterIn the course of the Company’s development, we have achieved a number of “Firsts” ◎ Strategy of scientific and First-class resource allocation technological innovation capabilities prise ◎ Strategy of green developFirst-class risk control capabilities ◎ Intensifying basic management ment to provide mechanisms of First-class talent team guarantee for the creation of a ◎ Strategy of internationalized First-class internationalized manworld-class enterprise management agement capabilities ◎ Strengthening Party building ◎ Strategy of superior operaFirst-class sustainable developto provide an organizational tions ment capabilities guarantee for the creation of a ◎ Strategy of Talent-Intensive First-class business performance world-class enterprise ◎ Strategy of harmonious First-class brand and image development The world's largest carbon capture The world's highest double curvaChina's first IGCC demonstration China's first large-scale integrated China's first domestic 1000MW ultrafacility – Huaneng Shidongkou ture arch dam Xiaowan Hydroproject Tianjin IGCC Demonstracoal and electricity enterprise supercritical coal-fire power units Power Plant II power Station tion Power Plant Yimin Coal and Electricity Company Huaneng Yuhuan Power Plant 873 Top-level Design China's first commercial wind and solar hybrid power generation system Nan’ao Wind Farm 05 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 06 Excelling in Performance in Huaneng To be an advanced organization To be an excellent Party member To be a high-level enterprise Topic Carrying out the “Excel in Performance” Campaign to promote We have given full play to the role of Party organization and Party members to carry out the “Excel in Performance” Campaign, taking the “Four-Strongs and Four-Excellents” as our focus, further improving the systems and mechanisms for the building of Party organizations at the grassroots level, constantly enhancing the scientific level Huaneng’s scientific development of Party building work, and making efforts to foster advanced Party organization and outstanding Party members at the grassroots so as to provide strong ideological, political and organizational guarantees for the faster and better development of the Company. Our Party organizations at all levels have performed their responsibilities In accordance with the unified leadership of the leading group of the “Excel in Performance” Campaign for central enterprises, and built strong organizations. Our Party members have promoted the scientific development of the company through their deeds, combining good Party performance the CPC Huaneng Committee has carried out the “Excel in Performance” Campaign in the Company, earnestly implementing with their jobs, devoting themselves to model actions, and carrying out a series of activities such as “a Party Branch is a flag and a Party member is a beacon,”“Being the the requirements of the activities in combination with Huaneng’s actual backbone, being a pioneer” and others, in which emerged a number of innovative advanced practical models. situation, strengthening organizational leadership with a high sense of political On the basis of summing up the experience of the “Excel in Performance” Campaign, our Party organization has further defined it as an important approach to responsibility, persisting in overall development, highlighting the characteristics build a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness. We will strive for excellence in increasing economic efficiency, speeding up structural readof practice, and striving to realize the “three achievements, three combinations, justment, promoting scientific and technological progress, strengthening corporate management and improving internationalized operations so as to impleand three concentrations.” Consequently, the “Excel in Performance” Campaign ment the tasks of the Company during the 12th Five-Year Plan and drive the company to take the lead in the ranks of world-class enterprises. has achieved great effects in each area of work and achieved good momentum to be an advanced organization, to be an excellent Party member and to be higher-level enterprise. The Company has also effectively promoted the Advanced Models Bright angels in the dark – the Jalainur Coal Company’s Tiebei Mine excavation team sustained, healthy and rapid development. As part of the “Excel in Performance” Campaign, we have adhered closely to the Taking the “Excel in Performance” Campaign as an opportunity, all Party members of the Tiebei coal mine excavation team theme of scientific development, taking structural reorganization, independent innovation, intensified managehave found revitalized safety work through the help of Party member safety positions, outstanding Party members and othment and team building as our working focus and important elements of the “Excel in Performance” Campaign, ers. They made use of the campaign to boost safety management and stimulate safety work through the drive of the Party while also making great efforts to excel in scientific development and striving to be world-class enterprise so as to branch and the initiation of leaders, demonstrating to Party members through helping them understand accident sources, earnestly translate the “Excel in Performance” Campaign into a powerful driving force for scientific development of the enterprise. along with culture, education and politics. Therefore, they have achieved a 15 consecutive year safe production record. Creating the working mechanisms of the“Five Roles” Advanced Models Hydropower pioneer deep in the mountains – Xiaowan Hydropower Station of Party organization Leaders spurring on, Party member action, Party-government Party-masses comHuaneng Lancang River Hydropower Company promotion, which gives which gives play to which gives play to interaction, which bination, to give play to the role of overthe role of guidance the role of models gives play to the role play to the role of In the “Excel in Performance” Campaign, 36 Party members of the Xiaowan Hydropower Station Reservoir cooperated with the all promotion and demonstration and pioneers of one mind bridges and links Party Branch in Chajiang Village where the station is located, pairing off with 2,318 people from 580 households in 13 villages to implement 12 aid measures, including mutual training of Party members, exchanges on the “Excel in Performance” Campaign, supporting the construction of new rural communities, working with experts from agricultural universities to give guidance on Creating the “Four Combinations” Creating a lively “three planting economic crops, and other activities. Through financial support, cultural integration, construction of new rural communiactivity model activities” work scope ties and other activities, they have effectively promoted harmonious development between the company and local people. Combining consolidaCombining practiMedia Attention tion and expansion of Motivating all of Party members cal problems to be the study and practice solved in production of the Scientific Outlook and operations on Development Linking up all of work Combining the building of a learning-oriCombining the innoStimulating the overall work ented Party organizavative work of Party tion Construction 07 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 08 Strategy and Management Company Profile China Huaneng Group is a key state-owned enterprise approved by the State Council. The registered capital of China Huaneng Group is RMB 20 billion Yuan. The Company is engaged in the following businesses: development, investment, construction, operation and management of power sources, production and sale of business and products related to finance, transportation, renewable energy and environmental protection, and industrial investment, operations and management. China Huaneng Group was first incorporated in 1985. Since then, the Company has provided experience in the reform, development, and technological innovation of the power industry. the Company has played an exemplary role in improving enterprise management and increasing economic benefit for power enterprises, the Company greatly contributed to meeting the requirements of economic and social development, as well as maintaining and adding value to state-owned assets. The Company continuously maintains its leading position, pursues cooperation and mutual benefits, and has gradually cultivated the “Three-color Corporate Culture,” which symbolizes a “red” company serving the needs of socialism with Chinese characteristics, a “green” company advocating technological innovation and environmental protection, and a “blue” company growing through relentless innovation and internationalization. Our core values are “Integrity, Cooperation, Innovation, Performance–oriented, and Serving the Nation.” By the end of 2011, the Company had wholly-owned or majority-owned power plants in 30 provinces, municipalities, autonomous regions and overseas, with total installed capacity of 125.38 GW. Businesses that support the core business, such as coal, finance, scientific R & D, transportation, etc., have been developed in a coordinated way. In the list of the world’s 500 top companies in 2011 released by the Fortune magazine, Huaneng’s rank rose from 313 in 2010 to 276 in 2011. Strategy and Management The Twelfth Five-Year Plan is an important period for China Huaneng Group to build a world-class company with international competitiveness. Therefore, the company will continuously hold high the great banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics, take Deng Xiaoping Theory and the “Three Represents” as its guidance, and thoroughly carry out the Scientific Outlook on Development. With the creation of a world-class company with international competitiveness as the orientation, the improvement of development quality and efficiency as the center, and the acceleration of transformation and upgrading as the focus, we will concentrate on transforming our development mode, promoting the company’s strength and betterment, and fully improving every level of the company with regards to safety, management, development and performance of Party building. With these efforts, Huaneng can take the lead to become a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness and make new and greater contributions to building a moderately prosperous society. Events Management System The Company continues to strengthen its three-level management system, comprised of the “headquarters regional companies / Strategic Planning Center industrial companies grassroots companies.” In 2011, Huaneng Decision-making Center for improved the working efficiency and service levels of the headquarters Investment and Financing On February 25th Huaneng held a general meeting of cadres from headquarters to make deployments for strengthening through the work of “Efficiency Year” , established the Coal Corporation Resource Allocation Center the building of the headquarters and carrying out “Efficiency Year” work. (formerly the Coal Department), Materials Corporation and others, and Group Performance Management Center On April 28th Huaneng made economic value-added (EVA) assessments for all secondary units to strengthen EVA further deepened the reform of systems in relevant industries. Huaneng ny management. has also formulated and promulgated 95 management system Compa Decision-making Center for Major & Important Issues changes at the headquarters level to improve the company’s overall On June 10th Huaneng Renewables Co. Ltd successfully listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. pamanagement system. Furthermore, Huaneng improved evaluation and a l Co m Responsible for Development, ConstrucR e gio n tion, Production and Operation Activities t r ia l management systems centered on the “Four Evaluation Systems” in In d u s On July 7th Fortune magazine released the list of the world’s 500 top companies in 2011 and the Company ranked n ie s / Profit-earning Center the secondary and tertiary companies, strengthened EVA evaluations, ies Compan th 276 , up by 37 places over the previous year. overall cost controls, standards management, and corporate risk Responsible for Safe Production On August 2nd SASAC ranked Huaneng as an A-level Enterprise for Business Performance among Central Enterprises. controls, and set up special management committees, such as the rises ts Enterp Cost Control Center Expert Committee, Safe Production Committee, and Finance & Budget Grassroo Committee, which further enhanced our decision-making abilities. The regional / industrial companies enhanced efficiency in resource allocation, and the grassroots companies enhanced the capability in execution and control. Sustainability Report 2011 10 Strategy and Management Strategy and Management Organizational Structure Corporate Strategy Departments of the Headquarters Focus on optimizing and adjusting the power structure, industrial structure and General Administration Department Department of Capital Operations and Equity Management Supervision Department regional distribution. Concentrate on the development of new energy, high-efficiency and clean use of traditional energy, energy services and others, eliminate backward Department of Planning and Development Department of Safe Production Auditing Department production capacity , and build a synergistic and efficient industrial system. Department of Budget and General Planning Department of Environmental Protection and Science Technology Department of Ideological and Political Work Transformation and Upgrading Strategy Department of Corporate Governance and Legal Affairs Engineering Department Labor Union Working Committee Department of Operations International Cooperation Department Persist in supporting the main businesses while being geared to the needs of production, the Company's forward position, and industrialization; improve the technological Finance Department Human Resources Department innovation system and mechanisms; enhance the capability of independent innovation, research and development on international cutting-edge technology; and lead the power industry to make technological progress. Technological Units Directly under China Huaneng Group Innovation Strategy The Central School of CPC China Huaneng Group China Huaneng Group Technical Economics Research Institute China Huane Group IT Center Intensify our efforts in the development of low-carbon and clean energy and reduce Industrial Companies emissions of greenhouse gases and pollutants, rely on technological progress and scientific management, develop the circular economy , and constantly improve the Huaneng International Power Development Corporation (HIPDC) GreenGen Co., Ltd. Huaneng Properties Co., Ltd. level of energy conservation and environmental protection. Green Development Huaneng Power International Inc. (HPI) Huaneng Energy and Transportation(Holding) Co, Ltd China Huaneng Group Clean Energy Technology Research Institute Strategy Huaneng Renewables Corporation Huaneng Capital Services Co, Ltd. China Huaneng Group Fuel Co., Ltd. Huaneng Nuclear Power Development Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Technology Innovation Center Based on global perspective, speed up the pace of “going global,” deepen international exchanges and cooperation, effectively allocate the resources of capital, talent and markets, gradually expand the business abroad, strengthen the operational supervision and risk prevention, and improve the level of international operations. Regional Branch Companies Internationalized China Huaneng Group Northeast Branch China Huaneng Group Jiangsu Branch China Huaneng Group Hunan Branch Management Strategy China Huaneng Group East China Branch China Huaneng Group Zhejiang Branch China Huaneng Group Chongqing Branch Give full play to the supporting role of scientific management, constantly improving China Huaneng Group Central China Branch China Huaneng Group Anhui Branch China Huaneng Group Qinghai Branch the whole process of management of production and operations, marketing, financial costs and project construction, effectively integrating economic factors and China Huaneng Group South Branch China Huaneng Group Fujian Branch China Huaneng Group Guangxi Branch (Preparatory office) system resources, and continuously improving the profitability and management of China Huaneng Group Hebei Branch China Huaneng Group Jiangxi Branch China Huaneng Group Guizhou Branch (Preparatory office) the Company. Excellent Operational China Huaneng Group Shanxi Branch China Huaneng Group Henan Branch Strategy Stick to the “Scientific Outlook on Development” as the overall guidance in human Regional Subsidiaries resource work, continuously improve the incentive mechanisms for fostering, attracting, employing and managing human resources, while positively developing highNorth United Power Co., Ltd. Huaneng Jilin Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Gansu Energy Development Co., Ltd. end, complex and innovative human resources and international talent pools to provide human resource support for corporate development. Huaneng Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. Huaneng Heilongjiang Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Tibet Power Generation Co., Ltd. Talent-Intensive Huaneng Hulunbuir Energy Development Co., Ltd. Huaneng Hainan Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Xinjiang Energy Development Co., Ltd. Strategy Huaneng Shandong Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Shaanxi Power Generation Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Hong Kong Co., Ltd. Operate the business according to laws and regulations, strengthen the construction Huaneng Sichuan Hydropower Co., Ltd. Huaneng Ningxia Energy Co., Ltd. Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute of corporate culture, wholeheartedly rely on workers to conduct the business, and positively perform corporate social responsibility, while enhancing the economic, social and environmental value creation capabilities, shaping Huaneng’ s good image and striving to build a harmonious enterprise. Units Directly Managed by China Huaneng Group Harmonious Development Strategy Huaneng Shandong Shidaowan Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Huaneng Hainan Industrial Co., Ltd. 11 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 12 Strategy and Management Strategy and Management Opportunities and Challenges Major Opportunities Clear Macroeconomic Policy Theme Broad Consensus on Changing Development Mode Central Economic Work Conference has determined the general tone of being Through thorough study and practice of the Scientific Outlook on Development, “stable while progressing” in the economic context, stressing the continue to the staff of the company deeply understands that changing the company’s implement proactive fiscal policy and prudent monetary policy, well handle the development mode is both a responsibility of the company and an inherent relationship of maintaining stable and rapid economic development, adjusting requirement for sustainable development. This laid a solid ideological foundation the economic structure and managing inflation expectations, while moving the for the company to speed up transformation and upgrading, and get stronger national economy in the expected direction of macro regulation and control. All and better. of these provide policy support for further development of the company. Improving Trends in the Overall External Environment of the Better Capability in Tackling Hard Issues and Overcoming DifPower Industry ficulties The Central Committee and the State Council are very concerned about the Huaneng has thoroughly carried out the Striving for excellence Campaign in a development of the power industry and attach great importance to economic systematic way. Relentlessly and tenaciously, all of the cadres and employees losses in the coal-fired power industry. In 2011, the state increased the price of have withstood various tests, and accumulated valuable experience, significantly Huaneng Renewables Corporation got listed on the stock market electricity in some areas, while taking relevant measures to prevent coal prices improved the ability and quality of the cadre team. This provides a strong guarCorresponding Measures from rising too fast. This creates the conditions for coal-fired power plants of the antee for the company to fully press ahead with scientific development. Company to reduce losses or turn losses into profits. Further Promoting Scientific and Technological Innovation Further Strengthening Safety Management We have deeply carried out the strategy of scientific and technological innovaWith implementing safety responsibility as the mainline and strengthening the tion, and strengthened the building of a scientific research team and research Major Risks control of safety production process as the focus, we deeply pushed ahead with platform. Also, we have steadily pressed ahead with demonstration projects like the construction of a supervision system and guarantee system for safe produccommissioning the Tianjin IGCC power plant and a high temperature gas-cooled Changes in the Economic Situation tion, solidly carried out the task of meeting safety production standards, and reactor nuclear power plant, and accelerated the research and development deepened staff training on safety education. We also strengthened the safety The world economic situation will remain very severe and complicated with increasing instability and economic recovery uncertain. The Chinese economy is confronted of such projects as 700℃ ultra-supercritical power generation technology and management of coal mines and conducted special programs on disaster prevenwith significantly unbalanced, uncoordinated and unsustainable contradictions and problems, the coexistence of downward pressures from economic growth and from 1200MW large-scale high-efficient generation units, which demonstrate our tion, while improving the emergency system to achieve systematic safety. the rise of prices, and complicated economic and financial trends, which bring risks to the Company’s management and development. leading role in scientific and technological innovation. Further Intensifying Operations and Management Further Strengthening Energy Conservation and Emissions Changes in the Electric Power Market We have paid close attention to changes in the markets for electricity, coal and Reductions capital, strengthened our analysis and assessments of the situations, and develAffected by factors such as the slowdown of economic growth, adjustment of the industrial structure, and more efforts in energy conservation and emissions reduction, We are working to conscientiously carry out the requirements for energy conoped effective measures to cope with the complicated circumstances in producthe acceleration rate of electric power consumption growth may slow across society. In recent years, influenced by factors such as having less newly installed capacity, servation and emissions reduction during the period of the 12th Five-Year Plan, tion and operations. We have also fully implemented EVA management and cost coal supply issues, and less inflow, the company has not been able to put all of its power generation capacity into effective use, directly bringing challenges to the Comand have actively participated in the “thousands of companies saving energy control measures and solved business problems while making efforts to increase and reducing carbon emissions” activity. We have also been deeply tapping the pany in production and marketing. income and decrease expenditures, and turning losses into profits so that we can energy-saving potential of generating units, promoting the desulfurization and complete our business tasks. denitration transformation of active generating units in an orderly manner, while Changes in the Coal Market Further Improving Development Quality striving to build an excellent and environmentally-friendly enterprise. Constrained by rail capacity, port transit capacity and the striking structural contradiction between the supply and demand of coal, the coal supply will remain tight in In accordance with the requirements for building a world-class enterprise, we some areas for some time, and its price will remain high. Internationally affected by depreciation of the US dollar, the global excess of financial liquidity, and other factors, Further Pressing Ahead with Reform and Innovation have incorporated the improvement of development quality and efficiency into the coal price will still fluctuate greatly, bringing pressure to the Company in ensuring fuel supplies and reducing fuel costs. We continue to work on our overall goal in building a world-class enterprise, earnestly the whole development process of the company, advancing the implementation pushing forward the construction of an international benchmarking system, constantly of strategies, accelerating the readjustment of the power structure, industrial Changes in Capital Markets improving the three-level management system, sorting out professional management structure and regional distribution, thus enhancing the synergistic capabilities of systems in relevant fields, strengthening performance evaluations and comprehensive the industry, and achieving effective, moderate and orderly development. As bank deposit reserve ratios and loan interest rates remain high, has resulted in tight supply, high costs and strict supervision in capital markets, with great uncertainty risk management, and continuously improving corporate management. in monetary policy trends and fund supplies, which means setting new requirements for the Company for fund guarantees and cost controls. Further Strengthening Capital Operations and the Work of “going global” Further Strengthening Party Building Adhering to the principles of “advancing in some areas while retracting in othWe have continued to further explore and grasp the working principle of Party builders” and “doing what is appropriate and discarding what is inappropriate,” we ing, earnestly pushing forward all the work of Party building. This includes deeply carintensified our efforts around equity financing, revitalized our stock assets, and rying out the anti-corruption work and striving to enhance the scientific level of Party optimized our capital layout. In the meantime, we have actively implemented building work. We also have continued to strengthen the building of our cadre team the strategy of “go global,” deepened international exchange and cooperation, and staff team as well as the development of corporate culture, fully implementing and improved and internationalized our operations and management. corporate social responsibility, and establishing a good corporate image. 13 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 14 Strategy and Management Strategy and Management Anti-corruption Social Responsibility Management Promoting Ethical Party and Government Responsibility At Huaneng, we actively respond to Requirements on Further Strengthening the Construction of Social Responsibility for Central Enterprises issued by the StateThe Company has insisted on incorporating into its overall pattern of the contents and methods of inspection and evaluation, as well as assessment owned Assets Supervision Administration Commission (SASAC) of the State Council, earnestly implement the company’s Guidance for Performing Social Responsibility, development the building of the Party’s style and of a clean enterprise. We criteria, so as to ensure the implementation of the responsibility system. make systematic planning on full implementation of social responsibility, and integrate social responsibility into our development strategy, our business management have continued to improve the leadership system and working mechanisms In 2011, members of the Company’s system signed more than 2,500 copies of and the entire process of corporate culture, while intensifying responsibility governance, promoting responsibility integration, paying attention to responsibility featuring Party committees exercising unified leadership, Party and government a Letter of Responsibility for improving the Party’s style and building a clean communication, and improving responsibility performance. In November 2011, at the Working Conference on Social Responsibility for Central Enterprises, our leader organs exerting concerted efforts, discipline inspection commissions organizing enterprise, conducted a test of knowledge on its responsibility system among 60 made a speech themed as “Devoting to green development, and building a world-class enterprise”, introduced our main practices and working performance and coordinating the work and departments assuming their respective members of secondary unit leading groups, sample checked for performance in that Huaneng persisted in the concept of green development, implemented green action plan, and strived to achieve sustainable development. In particular, our responsibilities. We have amended and issued the Promoting Ethical Party 16 units, collected 9,592 relevant ideas, and created a strong atmosphere of anticase of “Implementing social responsibility of central enterprise, and contributing to economic development in Tibet” was selected as the excellent case of social and Government Responsibility Implementation Measures, which refines corruption. responsibility practice of central enterprises. Implementing social responsibility is not only an imporHuaneng’s core concept of anti-corruption: tant corporate mission, but also an absolute choice for Practicing the “Three-color mission” and Shaping a clean and honest life. achieving sustainable development. Responsibility Fully Carrying out Prevention and Control of Corruption Risks In accordance with the Party organization’s Opinions on Applying the Theory and Experience of Risk Management to Deeply Promote the Construction of a To strengthen leadership and establish Persist in scientific development Establish a social responsibility commuthe system of leader groups assuming Persist in safe production nication system and make timely Corruption Punishment and Prevention System in Huaneng, we have taken three steps. These steps are piloting, summing up and dissemination, which help us social responsibility communication of social responsibility earnestly carry out the prevention of corruption risks. In six companies piloting this system, including stock company, we actively carried out investigations and Strengthen energy conservation and information through spokespersons, To establish sound institutions and emissions reductions media open days and other ways evaluations of corruption risk, developed corresponding prevention and control measures, and prepared the Manual on Prevention and Control of Corruption Risks. enhance the organization capacity of Promote independent innovation Develope the publication system for Consequently, we have formed a set of Huaneng’s characteristic practices and experiences for preventing and controlling corruption risks, which is also applicable in social responsibility management our sustainability report and setting up Realize the preservation and growth of different subordinate companies. In October 2011, the Company progressed with implementing the prevention and control of corruption risk in its all subordinate and state-owned assets the “Social Responsibility Column” on To Perfect mechanisms and promote the Company’s website. affiliated companies. the implementation of social responsiSafeguard the lawful rights and interbility projects ests of employees` Organize social responsibility training courses and training a total of 5,500 Strengthening Special Supervision and Inspection Support social public welfare To Strengthen supervision and form a persons closed-loop social responsibility manOperate according to the law, with Research social responsibility and particiWith regularizing usage rights and preventing operational risks as the fundamental principles, we carried out special programs to address the problems of business agement system honesty and good faith pate in developing and discussing social corruption, tackling the prominent issues in project developing. In 2011, we inspected 401 projects, developed 115 rules and systems, checked 297 small savings responsibility standards at home and abroad accounts, rectified 3 problems, and improved 582 rules and systems. We earnestly pressed ahead with our performance monitoring work around fuel management, bidding, and the implementation of collective decision-making systems as the focus to improve corporate management and increase economic efficiency. In 2011, we received 1,218 supervision suggestions, made 149 supervision decisions, worked out 591 rules, saved capital of 205 million Yuan, and prevented economic losses of 60.30 million Yuan. ◎ Social responsibility management systems have been constantly improved. ◎ Social responsibility communication system has been further improved. ◎ Social responsibility training has been continuously conducted. ◎ Employees have enhanced their awareness on social responsibility. On October 11th, 2011, theCompany held the enlarged meeting of the central group of Party group, and invited Peng Huagang, Director of the SASAC Research Bureau, to give a lecture on the theme of “Corporate Social Responsibility and Harmonious Development Strategies” . More than 5,560 persons attended the study including the leaders of the Group Company and employees of its subsidiary companies. 2011 Conference on Anti-Corruption Work in China Huaneng Group 15 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 16 Key Performance Indicators Strategy and Management Strategy and Management Membership in Major Social Groups and Organizations Environmental Indicator Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Name of organizations Position Proportion of clean energy % 9.06 12.40 15.01 17.70 19.12 China Center for International Economic Exchanges Standing Director Coal consumption for power generag/kWh 337.37 333.59 327.70 322.72 318.68 United Nations Global Compact Member tion Comprehensive service-power con% 5.88 5.90 5.61 5.22 5.08 Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of East Asia and the Western Pacific Member sumption rate of power plant Slag and ash utilization rate % 68.30 63.03 70.24 74.15 76.34 Central Enterprises Party Building & Ideological and Political Work Seminar Vice Chairman China Electricity Council Vice Director-General Economic Indicator Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 China Electric Power Employees Ideological & Political Work Seminar Vice Chairman Installed capacity 10 MW 7,157.50 8,586.20 10,438.20 11,343.42 12,537.84 China Enterprise Confederation & China Enterprise Directors Association Director Power output 100 million kWh 3,270.35 3,645.00 4,200.95 5,376.44 6,046.31 China Group Companies Promotion Association Vice Chairman Coal output 10 thousand tons 1,698 2,249 4,408 4,886 6,406 Chinese Society for Electrical Engineering Vice Director-General 100 million Total asset 3,760.86 4,635.94 5,782.81 6,623.99 7,531.88 Yuan(RMB) China Power Supervision Standardization Technical Committee Member 100 million Total revenue 1,156.07 1,513.75 1,777.40 2,279.94 2,681.73 Yuan(RMB) China Association of Work Safety Vice Chairman 100 million Tax delivery 141.80 141.20 166.48 172.66 195.78 Yuan(RMB) China Association for the Promotion of Industrial Development Director Director 100 million Profit 106.82 -58.41 68.85 77.83 61.41 Yuan(RMB) China Supervision Association Power Branch Vice Chairman China Association of Chief Financial Officers Standing Director Social Indicator Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Equivalent utilization coefficient of National Association of Financial Market Institutional Investors Standing Director % 93.32 91.69 92.27 94.87 94.17 power generation equipment China Federation of Industrial Economics Standing Director Major injury and death accident No. 0 0 0 0 0 China Corporate Culture Work Seminar Standing Director Major equipment accident No. 0 0 0 0 0 China Association of Power Equipment Management Vice Director-General Common equipment accident No. 5 4 3 0 6 Chinese Nuclear Society Standing Director Staff No. 88,539 98,560 129,992 131,816 133,270 China Nuclear Energy Association Vice Director-General Women staff No. 24,654 26,633 27,088 31,384 32,636 China International Institute of Multinational Corporations Vice Chairman Signing rate of labor contract % 100 100 100 100 100 Coverage rate of collective contract Chinese Society for Hydroelectric Engineering Vice Director-General % 100 100 100 100 100 China Institute of Internal Audit Standing Director Join-in rate of labor union % 100 100 100 100 100 China Electric Power Construction Association Member 10 thousand Donation amount 14,400 13,600 19,000 12,000 5,674 Yuan (RMB) China Information Industry Association Vice Director-General 17 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 18 Concept of Safe Development Putting People First and Safe Development Safe development is the precondition for sustainable development. In order to achieve safe development, we stick to the scientific concept of “putting people first.” We regard safety as part of benefits, reputation and competitiveness, and fully implement our Safe Production Responsibility System. We have also improved safety management regulations, strengthened our emergency response mechanisms, and continuously make improvements to our Safety Management System so as to raise safety levels and strive to be the safest company possible.` Objectives of Safe Development To avoid serious accidents related to equipment, fire, or traffic; To avoid all other incidents that may impact the image of our company. Putting People First and Safe Development Measures of Safe Development Strengthening Safety Management System Events Systems Development Implementing Responsibility We established a production safety management system at all levels of the We implemented the nation’s policies, laws, and regulations on production company, including the Group Company, regional/industrial companies, safety through our Safety Production Responsibility System, which used a and grassroots companies. We set up Production Safety Committees in all closed-loop management system that ensured decomposition, implementation On January 4th the Company held the year’s first enlarged meeting of the Production Safety Committee to sum up enterprises. Leaders of each enterprise were responsible for general safety and and performance assessment of responsibility. All companies have signed a production safety work in 2010 and make deployments for 2011. for organizing and ensuring a safe work environment. Production Safety Responsibility Agreement to guarantee the implementation On February7 th the Company deployed three special actions on complete coal mining licensing, improved system In 2011, the Company compiled Regulations against Code Violations, of the safe production responsibility system. In this way, responsibilities for Regulations on Inspection and Treatment of Hidden Dangers, and safety are designated level by level to each subsidiary, grassroots company, development, and the construction of the “Six Systems” . Accountability and Punishment Measures for Accidents, amended Regulations department, team and post. On June 3rd the Company carried out Safe Production Month activities with the theme of “Safety responsibility relies on Investigation of Power Production Accidents and other rules and regulations. We further improved our Detailed Rules for Implementation of Safety on implementation.” The Company developed documentation work in each of the grassroots Performance Assessments and other systems, quantified our safety indicators, On June 15 th Huaneng held a video conference to arrange for each Huaneng subsidiary company spare no efforts to companies to further promote the institutionalization and standardization of and divided them into four major indicators covering production safety, meet peak demand and prevent summer floods. safe production management. operational safety, political safety, and image safety for measurement and In 2011, the Company cooperated actively with the State Electricity Regulatory assessment. These indicators became the basis for assessing performance On September 15th the Company held a video conference on special actions against breaches of regulations in power and determining responsibility. In addition, we have strictly implemented Commission to carry out standardization of safe production in the power generation companies and made relevant deployments. Accountability and Punishment Measures for Accidents to strengthen industry, and conducted standard tests and evaluations in the Dalat, Dezhou and investigations into whoever responsible for accidents. Annually, we assessed Haikou power plants, respectively. each company’s safety performance targets and issued warnings and corresponding penalties to those that fall short of their targets. Sustainability Report 2011 20 Putting People First and Putting People First and Accident Management The Company further strengthened accident management, carried out a “100-Day Special Action against Breach of Regulations” and made detailed reviews of variSafe Development Safe Development ous accidents by means of video conferences, accident reports and others, so as to help all companies draw lessons and prevent similar accidents. In 2011, we held the Safety first, Focus on Prevention, Power Enterprise Safety Production Supervision and Management Workshop, through which we made in-depth analysis of personal injury accidents from 2005 to 2010, Comprehensive controls. summed up experience of safe production, and developed improvement measures. Consolidating the Foundations of Safety Team Building Safety is a precondition We treated team building as an essential aspect of safety management. Stressing Safety Guidelines for maintaining stability the concept of “ensuring zero death with zero breach of regulations, and ensurand promoting develing zero accident with zero defect”, we continued to carry out the activities of Through focused basic management on safety, clear job safety responopment. We emphasize “being an excellent group and excellent employees.” We encourage each group sibilities, closed-loop management, standard operational procedures, the importance of safety for the interests to innovate around safety management, and have comprehensively advanced prominent evaluations on quality, intensified safety training and study, of employees, entergroup safety standardization, increased safety education and training. We have and safety group building, the main unit maintenance team of the prises and the nation, Safety Safety Safety Value Safety as benefit, Safety as reputation, continuously consolidated the foundations of the enterprise’s safe production. In Haibowan Power Plant achieved excellent results and successively won Awareness and try to spread safety awareness and responCulture Safety as competitiveness, Safety is top priority. 2011, ten power plant teams of the company including the number two team of the power operations department of the Yuhuan Power Plant were awarded the awards like “Youth Civilization Sample,” “Central Enterprise Red Flag Group,” and others. sibilities among our title of “Worker Pioneers” by All China Federation of Trade Unions (ACFTU). employees. We establish correct safety performance concepts, Management on Safety of Infrastructure Construction and try to ensure political, production, operaWe have adopted responsible procurement, strictly implemented access systems for outsourcing construction companies, and blacklisted companies if they experiSafety Concepts tional and image safety. enced production and infrastructure construction accidents by barring them from future tendering. We also carried out pre-job safety training and education for personnel, ensured they were familiar with the code of safe construction, and enhanced their safety awareness. Furthermore, we strengthened our supervision over construction companies, and organized special activities on prevention and remediation of safety accidents in construction, so as to prevent safety incidents during infrastructure construction projects. Under all circumstances, we put human safety first , stess employees’ physical safety and vocational health, making safety the top priority. The Chaohu Power Plant adopted integrated management in production and infrastructure construction, eliminating minor personal injuries and serious equipment damage accidents, and achieving a smooth transition from infrastructure construction to power generation. Consequently, the Power Plant has successively received awards like the Electric Power Industry’s Quality Engineering Award and the Electric Power Construction Association’s Annual Quality Engineering Award. Emergency Management The Company has improved the emergency management system, compiled preventive action plans, carried out emergency drills, and formed an emergency response team. We believe that preventive measures should be implemented effectively and that emergencies need to be managed dynamically to ensure proper controls. We have enhanced worker safety awareness and developed their abilities to handle emergencies. In 2011, we further improved various special emergency programs, and successfully held drills for preventing flooding at the Lancang River and a fire emergency drill in the Lingdong Coal Mine. Additionally, the Company paid great attention to handling responses to sudden natural disasters, focused on strengthening our ability to handle abnormal climate, geological disasters, and other issues. We implemented full emergency management measures covering plans, materials, exercises, observation and the like. In 2011, the power plants in Weihai, Yuhuan, Fuzhou, Haikou, Taipingyi and others activated their emergency plans, successfully defended themselves against “Typhoon Muifa”, “Typhoon Naza” and other Fire emergency drill in coal mine geological disasters, and ensured safety production. 21 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 22 Putting People First and Coal Safety Management Putting People First and Safe Development Safe Development The Company continued to strengthen coal mine safety production technology and on-site Equipment Control Management management, improved emergency management and long-term mechanisms to prevent major Taking enhancing securing and reliability of the equipment as disasters and inspect serious hidden dangers, and actively promoted the development of safety quality our objectives, we continued to strengthen the comprehensive standards, so as to further reinforce the foundations of coal mine safety management. management of equipment, and developed technological In 2011, the Company promoted three special actions on complete coal mining licensing, improved modifications and solved important problems discovered in major system construction and the development of the “Six Systems,” extensively carried out general hazard assessments and evaluations. We also stressed maintenance inspections of coal mine production safety, carried out a special program against breach of regulations, quality, and organized technical innovation projects. In accordance and conducted inspections and coal mine safety evaluations, which continue to enhance coal mine with new requirements on energy conservation and emissions safety levels. Eleven coal mines passed the Safety Supervision Bureau’s criteria and achieved national reductions, we modified our equipment and strictly implemented standards. Inspection and Treatment of Hidden Dangers rules on protective equipment and explosion prevention measures. Additionally, we actively promoted technical supervision and management, earnestly made summaries and analysis of technical Prevention and Control of Safety Risks supervision, strengthened training for technical supervisors, and continued to improve equipment safety levels. In 2011, we kept the leading position in the industry for both equipment utilization rate Safety Evaluations and unplanned outage rate. In particular, 31 power plants realized We deeply developed safety evaluations, and issued Standards and Evidence on Safety Evaluations to establish a scientific evaluation system and working no unplanned outages throughout 2011, including key plants like mechanisms while increasing self-discipline in safe production and continuous improvement. In 2011, all of the grassroots enterprises carried out their Yuhuan, Baosan, Jinghong, Manwan and others. own investigations, among which some were assessed by experts in secondary units. Additionally, the group company conducted reexaminations and evaluations in Power Plants of Chaohu, Rizhao, Linyi, Yangluo, Baoyi, Wulashan, Yimin and Hailar, which effectively increased the safety of their production Fuel delivery pipeline and management, along with equipment safety levels. Inspection and Treatment of Hidden Dangers Overview of Prize-winning Coal-fired Generating Units We shifted the focus of safety work to the production line, strengthened supervision at the workplace, deepened the inspection and elimination of hidden dangers to Awards Capacity Prize-winning Units its equipment and the overall working environment. Additionally, we developed comprehensive safety inspections, and organized supervision teams to supervise eight grassroots companies, so that we realized closed-loop management of safety production in an all-round way. In 2011, subsidiary power generation enterprises inspected Unit 1 of Dalian Power Plant 28,830 hidden dangers, achieving rectification and reform with funds of 97.89 million Yuan, rectifying 25,659 hidden dangers (89%), and also inspecting 25 major hidden dangers, rectifying 13 (52%). All hidden dangers not yet eliminated were listed in our rectification plan. Unit 2 of Dalian Power Plant National Gold Medal for Reliability of 300 MW Coal-fired Generating Units Unit 6 of Huaiyin Power Plant Unit 1 of Taicang Power Plant 1GW Unit 4 of Yuhuan Power Plant Unit 1 of Qinbei Power Plant 600 MW Unit 6 of Shang’an Power Plant National First Prize Among Thermal Power Units Unit 2 of Dalian Power Plant 300 MW Unit 6 of Huaiyin Power Plant Unit 1 of Taicang Power Plant 23 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 24 Putting People First and Putting People First and Safe Development Safe Development Performance Safe Development Fostering Safety Culture Employee Training on Safety No serious equipment accidents, no serious fire accidents, no major traffic acciWe continuously improved our staff safety education and training system, deSystem for Safe Production, which made use of video, cartoons and other ways dents, or large-scale pollution accidents occurred in 2011. veloped a safety training plan based on practical needs, and carried out safety to fully demonstrate more than 240 typical cases, and effectively improved the immediacy and interest of safety training. In 2011, one serious production-related accident leading to death occurred in a trainings in a planned, targeted and differentiated way by means of teaching power enterprise, the same number as in the previous year. classes, safety warnings, etc. to raise awareness of production safety among our employees and enhance their ability in handling accidents. In 2011, Huaneng Six common equipment accidents in power generation occurred in 2011, up by organized 20 training sessions for leaders, professionals and technical supervisix over the previous year. sors with more than 1,205 participants. Furthermore, 30 people passed national 62 Class 1 equipment failures occurred in 2011, an increase of 8 compared with The power plants in Shantou, Huaiyin and Dalat innovated training CSE qualification examinations successfully. The number of CSE has come to 542 2010. the ratio of unplanned outages was 0.12%, 0.04% higher than 2010. forms, developed Safety Training and Education Platforms, used mulpersons. timedia tools for teaching, presented the content in three-dimensional No incidents or accidents that may impact the stability and image of the comWe have continued to improve safety training modes to enhance their quality ways with pictures, texts, sounds and videos, and noticeably improved pany occurred in 2010. and effect. In 2011, Huaneng organized and developed a Multimedia Training Inspection of equipment the effects of training. Safety Culture Activities Overview of the Company’s Power Production Safety (2007 – 2011) We attach great importance to the development of safety culture, constantly innovating the means and methods of cultivating safety culture, created a strong atmosphere for safe production, and cultivated good safe operations habits. In 2011, Huaneng initiated “Safe Production Month,” with the theme of “Safety responsibility lays Item Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 stress on implementation,” organized its subsidiary companies to participate in online knowledge competitions, essay competition on safe production, and other activities like the “Safe Production Youth Demonstration Post.” Through various publicity and educational activities like a signature campaign, contest on safety knowledge, Major equipment accident times 0 0 0 0 0 and safety speech contests, we raised safety awareness among our employees. Common equipment accident times 5 4 3 0 6 Casualty-causing accident times 3 3 2 1 1 Class 1 equipment failure times 122 114 53 54 62 Unplanned outages times 142 173 84 83 91 Equipment utilization ratios % 93.32 91.69 92.27 94.87 94.17 Alarm Bells and Reflection In 2011, the Company was generally steady as regards the safe production situation, but did not put an end to casualty-causing accidents, which reflected the weak awareness of safety production in a few enterprises, lack of “strict, refined and pragmatic working style,” and incomplete implementation of the safety production responsibility system. It also indicated that there still exists a certain gap between overall safe production and management and the objectives of building a world-class enterprise. Safety responsibility is very important. We shall remain constantly on guard, firmly putting people first and ensuring safe development, and develop a profound understanding that safe production is the top responsibility, top priority, and most important for efficiency for our enterprise. We shall earnestly draw lessons from accidents, find out and reflect on the defects, and take accident prevention as the main direction, and standardized production as an important guarantee while promoting safe production. We shall also strictly implement safety responsibility; give priority to five special aspects covering special action against breach of regulations, inspection and treatment of hidden dangers, safety evaluations, safety training and education, and safety management of outsourcing engineering. Furthermore, we shall strengthen the safety management of coal enterprises, and fully develop safe production and management systems, and standards in power plants, so as to reinforce safety assurance, and ensure intrinsic safety. 25 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 26 Case Study Shangdu Power Plant Realizing Intrinsic Safety in Infrastructure Construction Projects Shangdu Power Plant, located in Zhenglan Banner Shangdu town, Xilin Gol, Inner structure development, and urged the supervision and construction unit to prepare Mongolia, is an important supporting point in the national power transmission from an implementation plan on safety management. The power plant also established a west to east project, and also one of the power plants in optimizing power grid strucsafety assurance system headed by its Party-secretary, and a safety supervision systure of Northern China. Its power output is directly transmitted to the Beijing-Tianjintem led by its general manager, defining the working process of safety management Tangshan power grid through two 500 KV transmission lines. Presently, its total on infrastructure construction and staff responsibilities, and forming a complete Paying great attention to preliminary work. The Shangdu Power Plant discretely Strengthening the evaluation of construction units. The Shangdu Power Plant installed capacity is 3720MW, accounting for 6.5% in Northern China’s power grid. safety management network system. and selectively organized different construction units to take level-3 safety educaregularly made statistic reports of violations of regulations in each construction unit, Since its establishment, the Shangdu Power Plant has persisted in paying equal atFocus on inspecting the qualification certificates of construction units. In along with their safety management performance, evaluated their on-site safe and tion and training to eliminate the phenomenon of giving workers an examination tention to power generation and infrastructure construction. In combination with the stage of bidding, all construction units had to accept the inspection of safety civilized construction efforts, criticized backward construction units, and praised and instead of training. All construction personnel have to accept safety training and pass its actual needs, the Power Plant improved the safety management system for the qualification by the Shangdu Power Plant, which inspects 19 items covering the rewarded advanced ones. Through this the power plant promoted all construction the examination before working. The power plant also carried out appropriate activiwhole process of infrastructure construction. The Power Plant strictly controlled four qualification certificates corresponding to construction projects, safety organizaunits to standardize their internal management and strengthen self-restraint, so that ties like speeches on safety, a safety knowledge contest, safety month and so forth, aspects covering the inspection of construction unit licenses, preparatory work before tional structure, safety performance, construction safety records over the most recent the plant could effectively control on-site violations of regulations and ensure the and conducted emergency drills so that the safety concept would be rooted in the construction, on-site supervision and management, and the evaluation of constructhree years, and other items. In particular, the power plant examines construction safety of infrastructure projects under a controllable and controlled situation. minds of the construction workers. Additionally, the power plant strictly examined tion units. Furthermore, it paid close attention to the safety training for construction personnel medical records, labor contracts, and insurance for work-related injury or the “three measures and one plan” prepared by construction units, strengthening Through the complete and detailed process control, closed-loop scientific safety supersonnel, management against breach of regulations, and other issues, so as to accidents. The power plant also signed responsibility contracts on safety objectives, the inspection of scaffolds, tools and equipment before construction so as to ensure pervision and management, and active and effective incentives, the Shangdu Power ensure the safe construction of infrastructure projects. and safety agreements with all construction units, so as to define the safety responoperational safety for personnel using techniques, tools, and equipment in different Plant put six generating units into operation from April 2003 to December 2011, Improving the safety management system. Shangdu Power Plant developed a sibilities of both parties, and disaggregate and quantify the general objectives and working environments and worked to achieve earlier warnings in safety managewith no serious casualty-causing accidents, equipment accidents, or fire accidents, suite of regulations and systems for the whole process of infrastructure construction, requirements of safety management. Furthermore, the power plant retains 2.5% of ment. and achieved the expected safety objectives in infrastructure construction. Shangdu which covers management around the objectives of safe infrastructure construction, the total amount of the project as funds for safety, quality and progress assessment, Strengthening on-site supervision and management. Adhering to the principle Power Plant was given the “Ankang Cup Winning Enterprise” award, the “National examination and approval of safety technical measures, supervision and inspection so as to induce construction units to pay more attention to safety construction manof “zero tolerance” and paying close attention to the “three violations,” the Shangdu Labor Merit Certificate,” and the “National Civilization Unit” award, along with others. of safety quality, investment in safety protection, and accountability of safety infraagement. Power Plant set up a board to expose the violations of regulations, issued a Management Manual on Fighting Violations of Regulations in Infrastructure Projects and Standard Atlas of Safety Facilities, set up safety signs and slogans, requested supervision and construction units to keep record of violations, and publicized the safety concept of “zero violations and injuries.” Additionally, the Power Plant persisted in conducting daily checks and weekly joint check of safety and civilization, actively carried out special action against breach of regulations, and special inspections for protective equipment, hot work on site, temporary power supplies, scaffolds, use of safety tools and equipment, implementation of a two-ticket system (operation tickets and work tickets), increased focus on higher-risk construction, improved supervision over major projects, and strictly investigated unqualified items and urged rectification. 27 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 28 Concept of Optimal Development Transformation and Upgrading, and Optimal development is an inevitable requirement for sustainable development. To Optimal Development promote optimal development, we should take building a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness as the driving force, take improving the quality and efficiency as the center, and take speeding up transformation and upgrading as the focus. We should focus on optimizing and adjusting the power structure, industrial structure and regional distribution, and achieve effective, moderate and orderly development so as to further enhance sustainable development capabilities. Objectives of Optimal Development To increase coal production capacity by 19.7 million tons per year. To achieve generating capacity of clean energy proportions to 15%. Transformation, Upgrading and Optimal Development Measures of Optimal Development Optimizing the Power Sources Structure We continued to accelerate the pace of structural adjustment, optimizing the development of coal-fired power, and making greater efforts in hydropower. We also activeEvents ly developed wind power, solar energy and other new energy, strived to develop nuclear power, and kept up the pace of development of natural gas power generation, so as to improve the high-efficiency and clean use of traditional energy and increase the proportion of installed clean energy capacity. In 2011, the Company’s proportion of newly-installed clean energy came to 32% of total newly-installed capacity. By the end of 2011, the Company’s clean energy installed capacity had reached 23.97GW, accounting for 19.12% in the total installed capacity, up by an increase of 1.42% over the previous year. On March 1st the high-temperature gas-cooled reactor demonstration project of the Huaneng Shandong Shidao Bay Nuclear Power Station was approved at the executive meeting of the State Council. Optimizing the Development of Coal-fired Power On March 19th the Nuozhadu Hydropower Station, one of the key national projects and the hydropower station with the largest inThe Company actively promoted the construction of high-efficiency and large stalled capacity in Yunan, was approved by the National Development and Reform Commission. clean coal-fired generating units. The company put into operation a number of th coal-fired power generating units with good economic returns and regional disOn September 28 the “National Research and Development Center for High-Efficiency Use of Water Energy and Dam Safety Technology”, tribution, including two generating units at phase three in the Shangdu Power proposed by the Lancang River Hydropower Company and Clean Energy Research Institute, was approved for conPlant, No.5 generating unit at phase three in Yimin and other coal-electricity struction. integrated projects. By the end of 2011, the Company’s 600-MW or over units acOn December 15th Huaneng smoothly completed a 168-hour full-load test running of the Unit 1 in the first phase of Zuoquan Power counted for 46.78% of the installed proportion of coal-fired generating units, up Plant, and it is also the company’s first indirect air-cooled coal-fired generating unit. by 2% over the previous year. The Company actively spread Yimin’s advanced experience and circular economy On December 22nd Huaneng completed its first coal chemical project, the coal-to-methanol project (600,000 tons), in the Huating Coal Comdevelopment mode, and vigorously promoted the construction of power plants pany, and held a ceremony for laying the cornerstone of a 200,000-ton polypropylene project in Pingliang, Gansu Province. like Shangdu and Zuoquan and other projects that integrate the management On December 26th the No.7 unit (600-MW supercritical indirect air-cooled unit) of the Qinling Power Plant smoothly went into operation of coal mine and power plants. The Company earnestly implemented national as a phase four project. It is also Huaneng’s first “three towers in one” project, which integrates circulating water cooling, industrial development policies, accelerated the pace of eliminating backward smoke-exhaust, and desulfurization into one body. productivity, and deeply implemented the policy of “developing large generating units, and closing down small ones” to gradually shut down medium-sized Yimin Power Plant and small coal-fired generating units that represent high energy consumption, long time of service, and poor economic efficiency. Sustainability Report 2011 30 Making Great Efforts to Develop Hydropower Strengthening Industrial Synergy Transformation and Upgrading, and Transformation and Upgrading, and Adhering to the principle of “by river basins and cascades, in a rolling and comprehensive way”, the Company promoted the construction of hydropower in an orderly The Company fully implemented the industrial development planning during the period of the 12th Five-Year Plan, optimizing and readjusting industrial structures and way. In 2011, the Company vigorously developed hydropower in the southwestern areas, and steadily developed hydropower on the Lancang River and Brahmaputra. strengthening industrial synergy. Taking power generation as the core business, the Company actively developed coal resources, and made overall plans for the developOptimal Development Optimal Development The Nuozhadu Hydropower Station was approved for construction. The No.3 and 4 units of the Gongguo Bridge Hydropower Station were put into operation. By the end ment of transportation with coal transportation as the main business. The Company also accelerated the integration between industry and finance, and gave full play to of 2011, the Company’s installed capacity of hydropower reached 11,000 MW, accounting for 8.77% in the total installed capacity. the supporting role of finance. Additionally, the Company speeded up the development of science and technology and emerging industries, built high-efficiency and synergetic industry systems, and strived to achieve coordinated development between scale, speed, quality and benefits. Pressing Ahead with the Development of New Energy The Company continued to accelerate the pace of wind power development, and developed profit-oriented and base-style wind farms in an orderly way. The Company promoted the development and construction of 1,000MW-level of wind power bases in the northeast, north China, and other regions comprising the Inner Mongolia and Xinjiang regions, Science &Technology Finance Power Generation and Gansu and Jiangsu Province. In 2011, three 1,000 MW large-scale wind farm bases in Tongliao, Fuxin and Shandong were put into operation and achieved good economic returns. In particular, the Daqing Wind Farm, China’s first wind farm with single unit installed capacity of 3 MW, was completed and put into use. By the end of 2011, the Company’s installed capacity of wind power exceeded 7,000 MW. Additionally, the Company actively developed solar photovoltaic generation and other clean energy generating projects. The Golmud Photovoltaic Power Station I and II were put into production, and the Qingtongxia photovoltaic project was approved. The Golmud Photovoltaic Power Station Company also developed such projects as shale gas exploration, exploitation of coalbed methane, and wave energy generation. Striving to Develop Nuclear Power Coal Logistics Under the premise of ensuring safety, the Company attached great importance inspections, deepened the preliminary work of the project and site reserves, and to the development of nuclear power. On the basis of building the Shidaowan actively promoted the development of corporate culture with nuclear safety at nuclear power base, the Company continued to intensify efforts in talent trainthe core. ing, strived to build a high-quality nuclear power talent team, and actively In March 2011, the Shidaowan high-temperature gas-cooled reactor demonexplored scientific standard organization structures and management systems stration project was approved at the executive meeting of the State Council, and in the construction of nuclear power projects. The Company also analyzed the passed the national comprehensive safety inspection in July. The preliminary Actively Developing Coal Resources accident in the Fukushima Nuclear Power Station and fed back lessons and expework of its PWR (Pressurized Water Reactor) expansion project went steadily on. The Company actively strived for high quality coal resources and subsequent riences. Additionally, the Company earnestly implemented the national requireFurthermore, the Hainan Changjiang and Shandong Haiyang Nuclear Power resources, encouraged existing coal mines to transform for capacity expanments for general inspection of safety in nuclear power stations, carried out selfProjects, in which Huaneng is a shareholder, were smoothly under construction. sion, focused on developing a number of coal projects with strong coordinated capability of industrial development and obvious functional benefits, and fully stepped up the construction of large-scale coal bases and coal electricity bases, so as to form a stable, reliable and economical coal supply system and constantly boost the basic position of the coal industry. The Company further increased its coal capacity, coal output and the coal selfsupply rate. The amount of outgoing coal in the internal market of Hulunbuir increased by 2.73 million tons, up by 47% over the previous year. The North United Power Company successfully opened railway channels to transport coal directly to power plants affiliated to the Huaneng Shandong Company. The Company also advanced the development of such coal bases as Mengdong, Longdong, Diandong and Zhundong in an orderly way. The Yimin opencast coal mine was listed in the ranks of the 20-million-ton level open pit mines in China. Lingdong Coal Mine passed acceptance and went into production. In 2011, the Company’s coal capacity reached 64.06 million tons, hitting a record high. Semi-continuous production system at opencast coal mine Gongguo Bridge Hydropower Station 31 Transformation and Upgrading, and Optimal Development Sustainability Report 2011 32 Transformation and Upgrading, and Transformation and Upgrading, and Optimal Development Optimal Development In 2011, we fully implemented the planning for major scientific and technological projects during the period of the 12th Five-Year Plan. To be exact, we put Tianjin IGCC demonstration projects into the stage of comprehensive commissioning, made new progress in 1,200MW high-efficient large-scale generating units, solar photovoltaic generation and other advanced generation technology, launched four approved national scientific projects including 700℃ ultra-supercritical coal-fired generation technology, and applied on-site bus control systems and “three towers in one” technology with independent intellectual property rights in Qinling Power Plant. Thus, we achieved 15 provincial awards for scientific and technological achievements and 66 national patents, including 22 invention patents. Planning Regional Development as a Whole The Company maintained pace with national energy development and made changes according to practical needs. The Company also optimized and readjusted its reWharf of Tianchen Port gional distribution, speeding up development in West China, consolidating in East China, stabilizing in the Central China and improving in Northeast China, so as to form new advantages in regional distribution. The Company made further improvements in the distribution of the domestic power supply, increasing its coverage, striving Planning the Development of the Logistics Industry as a Whole to improve its share in the power market, and constantly optimizing its regional distribution. As of the end of 2011, the Company had 210 power plants in 29 provinces The Company is fully tapping the potential of existing coal transportation assets and has made overall plans to develop its transportation business, including ports, ship(autonomous regions and municipalities), accounting for about 11.6% of national total installed capacity.In 2011, the Company strengthened strategic cooperation in the ping and private railways. The Company has also strived to build a stable, reliable and efficient coal transportation security system. In 2011, the Company gave full play field of energy, and signed 13 strategic cooperation agreements with governments (provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities) or central enterprises. to the role of coordination between ports and shipping companies. The amount of transported coal at the special field of the Qinhuangdao Port exceeds 16 million tons. The amount of coal shipped by shipping companies like “Times,”“Ruining” and “Luneng” accounted for 52.7% of overall amounts of coal transported by water, up by 12% over the previous year. The No. 4 and 5 wharfs at the Bili operational area of Luoyuan Bay were under trial production. Caofeidian Coal Wharf and Haimen Coal Wharf were approved. Optimal Development Performance Constantly Deepening Industry-finance Integration Giving full play to the role of the financial industry, including its service functions and supporting performance, the Company insisted on sound operations, focused on industrial and financial business integration, and established a standard and effective financial holding operation system and risk prevention system. The Company also continued to strengthen and give play to the role of various financial platforms, increased its operating performance, expanded its business field, made innovation in products and services, and established a leading brand in Huaneng’s financial market so as to achieve the coordinated development between industrial and financial business, and become an important force in serving the Company’s main business while also increasing economic efficiency. In 2011, the Company brought the service functions and supporting performance of the financial industry into better play, and provided all of its subsidiary companies with emergency capital guarantee, low cost Economic activity analysis meeting of financial enterprises financing, insurance claims, CDM development and consulting and other professional services. Emphasizing the Leading Role of Science and Technology The Company persists in the guiding ideology of “Serving the main business, and gearing of science and technology One base ◎ National innovation and entrepreneurial base to the needs of industrialization”, encourages innovation in Scientific and Technological System the system and mechanisms of the science and technology Two ◎ Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute industry, and establishes the scientific research system comprising one base, two organizations, five national research organizations ◎ Clean Energy Research Institute and development centers, and a number of provincial experimental bases, which forms a scientific and technological ◎ National Key Laboratory of Coal-based Clean Energy team comprising over 600 researchers, and further reinforce ◎ National Technology Research and Development Center on Five National Coal Cleaning and Low-Carbon Power Generation our leading position in the national energy-related technical Research and ◎ National Technology Research and Development Center on field. In 2011, we invested over 200 million Yuan in the develHigh-e.cient and Clean Coal-red Power Generation Development opment and research of science and technology. ◎ National Research and Development Center on HighCenter Efficiency Use of Water Energy and Dam Safety Technology ◎ National Engineering Research Center on Power Station Boiler Coal Cleaner-burning 33 Transformation and Upgrading, and Optimal Development Sustainability Report 2011 34 Case Study Huating Coal Company Giving play to synergetic action and ensuring the supply of coal balanced production and ensure the steady supply of coal. Additionally, arrangements, inspection tours and reporting every day” to provide China the Huating Coal Company achieved mining technology reforms, elimiHuaneng Group’s power plants with 5.292 million tons over the year. At the nating backward production, applying a series of advanced technology meantime, the Huating Coal Company keeping close touch with the Railway solutions including comprehensive excavation, mesh-bolt support, belt Administrations in Xi’an and Lanzhou, accelerated the construction and conveyance, shock wave monitoring, network integration and digital reconstruction of loading stands, optimized the loading processes, adopted management, to improve the technical equipment level of each mine.The “substituting empty train with full one”,increased enterprise-owned trains and Huating Coal Company also concentrating on solving such problems as other methods, so as to ensure timely loading and smooth railways for the mine pressure, tunnel support, mining in deeply inclined full-mechanized transportation of electricity coal. mining faces, mining with small pillars, and preventing spontaneous coal In 2011, the Huating Coal Company’s production reached 18.7008 million combustion and gas, with the result that the company increased its coal tons of raw coals, achieved drifting footage of 48669.4 meters, and maincapacity from 8 million tons to over 18 million tons, an increase of 125%. tained 33,092 meters of tunnels. On the basis of ensuring safety, the Huating Giving full play to synergetic effect. In 2011, in order to meet the demand Coal Company realized continuous supply of coal, maintained steady and The Huating Coal Company, the backbone enterprise of China Huaneng sure the coal supply, and preparing working plans and emergency plans. The for coal surrounding power plants, further improve the road capacity, and fast development momentum and made new breakthroughs in safe proGroup in the coal industry, is located in Huating county and Chongxin company made overall plans for all aspects, covering mine safety production, effectively give play to the synergetic effects between coal companies and duction, management and operation construction project, and others,thus County, Pingliang City, Gansu Province. As the backbone mining area of the coal resources allocation, coordination of transport capacity, supervision of power plants, the Huating Coal Company invested more than 60 million making important contributions to corporate development and regional Huanglong coal base, which is one of 13 national large-scale coal bases, it coal quality, and others, so as to ensure all working measures were in place. Yuan to purchase 150 coal trucks, and implemented the system of “Making economic and social development. enjoys good geological conditions, covers an area of 134 square kilometers In November, as the fog, rain and snow occurred in most parts of Pingliang, with total coal reserves of 2.85 billion tons. By the end of 2011, Huating Coal coal production was seriously affected. Therefore, the Huating Coal Company Company possessed recoverable coal reserves of 2.18 billion tons with workheld an emergency meeting, taking measures to cope with the bad weather’s able reserves of 1.15 billion tons. influence on coal transportation, strengthening the coordination of transport For coal electricity supply has an overall impact on economic and social capacity, shortening transport periods, and increasing daily transportation. development, and also has a bearing on the daily life of every family. In order The road capacity reached 11,000 tons per day on average. Additionally, to ensure the supply of electricity coal and meet the pressing need of power leaders delved deeply into the coal production line to coordinate, check and coal in the power plants around Pingliang in 2011, Huating Coal Company supervise the work. responded to the requirements of the provincial government and Huaneng Striving to increase coal production output. Facing the pressing situGroup,went all out for coal production, allocating resources in a scientific ation of coal supply, Huating Coal Company accelerated its construcand reasonable way, striving to improve road capacity, actively coordinating tion of projects, and steadily increased the output of raw coal. Under railway transporting capacity, overcame all difficulties and made efforts to the premise of ensuring safety, each coal and technical department increase the coal supply for power generation. strengthened the links of production, technology and management, Perfect guarantee measures for the supply of electricity coal. In early and intensified dispatching and scheduling. They completed removal 2011, the Huating Coal Company held three consecutive meetings for elecof 19 fully-mechanized coal caving faces in a safe and high-efficiency tricity coal, deploying the supplying work, setting up a leaders group to enway and scientifically adjusted the off-line maintenance plan to realize 35 Transformation and Upgrading, and Optimal Development Sustainability Report 2011 36 Energy Conservation, Emission Concept of Green Development Reduction and Green Development Green development is indispensable to sustainable development. Green development requires maintaining the industrial policy of energy conservation and emission reduction, relies on strict management and technological progress to tap the potential of energy conservation; improves the high-efficiency and clean use of energy and resource; and means devoting ourselves to ecological and environmental protection. Objectives of Green Development To achieve a coal consumption rate of 321g/kWh. To achieve the annual objectives defined in the Special Plan for Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection (2011-2015). To build 10 energy-saving and environmentally-friendly coal-fired power plants, keeping the leading position in the general consumption rate of the power industry. Energy Conservation, Emission Reduction To avoid major environment pollution accidents. and Green Development Measures of Green Development Strengthening the Management of Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Events Strengthening Organizational Leadership We made a point to integrate energy conservation and environmental protection into production, operations and the entire process of infrastructure construction, constantly improved the three-level management system comprised of the “group company — regional / industrial companies — grassroots On March 29th the Huaneng Yuhuan Power Plant completed retrofitting of four sets of 1000MW ultra-supercompanies”, strengthened the three-level working network, including grassroots companies, workshops critical units of over 1 GW for denitrification, making this the world’s largest denitrification and the group, and formed a level-by-level working system, in which the leaders of each administrative engineering project. department at all levels were responsible for general environmental protection. We also strengthened scheduling and management of energy conservation and environmental protection, made regular On April 1st the Huaneng Group signed the Cooperation Agreement on Transforming Saline-alkali Land analysis of its focus, integrated resources effectively, and implemented work in an overall way so as to form with By-products from Desulfurization with Tsinghua University. a working pattern featuring horizontal integration, common action of higher and lower officers, and the participation of all staff. On June 15th the Company was awarded the title of “Excellent Enterprise in Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction During the 11th Five-Year Plan” by SASAC. Improving Management System On September 29th the Company’s research and demonstration project on carbon capture devices (120,000 We laid emphasis on the establishment of systems around energy conservation and tons/year) for coal-fired power plants was awarded the National First-grade Energy Scientific emission reduction, continuously standardized and improved the incentives appraisal and Technological Progress Prize. system according to the requirements of energy conservation and environmental protection, and strengthened energy conservation in production, operations and On November 8th the Jianxing-Huaneng Carbon Assets Investment and Development Fund, China’s first special private carbon emissions fund, was officially established. infrastructure construction, so as to effectively press ahead with the implementation of work in energy conservation and environmental protection during the 12th Five-Year Plan. We actively carried out trainings on energy conservation and environmental protection Huaneng Nanshan Power Plant for professional technical backbones and managements. In 2011, we conducted over 40 various trainings with more than 6,000 participants. Sustainability Report 2011 38 Implementing Energy-saving Modifications Energy Conservation, Emission Energy Conservation, Emission In 2011, we formulated the documents, including Planning for a Energy-saving and Environment-friendly Enterprise (2011-2015); Standards on Excellent We implemented Guidelines on Huaneng Thermal Power Generating Unit Energy Environmentally-friendly Coal-fired Power Plants; Guidance on the Design, Maintenance and Operation of Desulphurization Systems. We made clear our Conservation, and Guidelines on Huaneng Thermal Power Generating Unit Power objectives, tasks, measures and timetables of energy conservation and emission reduction during the period of the 12th Five-Year Plan, and assigned Reduction and Green Development Reduction and Green Development Conservation. Relying on technical progress, we extensively tapped the energy conserresponsibilities to each regional company and grassroots enterprise to ensure the performance of responsibilities level by level with clear objectives and vation potential of active power generating units, carried out flow path retrofitting of thorough implementation. turbines and opening cylinders to increase efficiency, and reduced the steam consumption of turbines. We also optimized cold-end systems, drainage systems, coal pulverizing systems, wind and smoke systems, and adjusted and tested the performance of auxiliary systems. We actively adopted motor frequency conversion technology, boiler plasma ignition, and other technology to reduce the power and oil consumption of generating Strengthening Supervision and Management units, to utilize all remaining energy, improve heat recovery, and improve the operational We regard our work in energy conservation and environmental protection as In 2011, we improved the systems for statistics, supervision, analysis and efficiency of the units. an important part of the performance of evaluation and management, and assessment of environment protection performance, and established a system have worked to link this to compensation through an evaluation system. We for online supervision and comprehensive analysis of energy conservation Creating an Excellent Energy-saving and have implemented a one-vote veto system for major energy conservation and indicators. We regularly issued a grassroots enterprises index that evaluated CO2 capture devices in the Shidongkou Power Plant II Environmentally-friendly Enterprise environmental protection objectives that disqualify enterprises from applying energy conservation and environmental protection, steadily carried out for the “Four Excellent Teams” if they have failed to achieve annual objectives and benchmarking analysis, and took special and effective action to rectify problems, Reducing Water Consumption We earnestly implemented Planning on Creating an Excellent and Environmentallymeet requirements. This helps form an incentive and constraint mechanism with friendly Enterprise during the 12th Five-Year Plan and further improved evaluation so as to form a dynamic closed-loop supervision mechanism. The Company adopted many water-saving technologies, including airstandards. We also standardized and perfected our preparation and planning on energy clear awards and punishments. cooling, desalination of sea water, sewage treatment, using recycled waconservation and emission reduction, training on energy conservation management, ter, dry removing slag and pneumatic conveying ash, built a water-saving analysis and statistics of energy conservation indicators, fuel charging management, power plant tailored to local conditions, graded water according to its Steadily Promoting Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction quality so as to reduce consumption of fresh water, and realized nearly and energy conservation supervision and management. Relying on the Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute, we tackled some key technical problems like optimizing zero discharge of waste water. In 2011, the Company achieved water congoverning valves of large capacity generating units, experimenting with blending and Strengthening Detailed Management sumption rate for power generation of 1.28 kg/kWh, down by 0.02 kg/ burning techniques, optimizing the powdering system, and reducing power plant eleckWh over the previous year. tricity consumption rates in key generating units. In 2011, 17 power plants made posiStarting with basic management, the company strengthened energy conservation treatment in newly-operating units as well as units with excessive energy consumptive progress in developing excellent environmentally-friendly power plants, including tion, along with key-type generating units. We also selected technicians with rich experience in energy conservation and formed them into a cross-regional and interdisthe power plants in Tongchuan and Taicang. ciplinary working group to carry out special work on energy conservation and emission reduction. In 2011, we made a special diagnosis of energy conservation in 33 key generating units, and carried out special energy-saving rectification actions in 27 key power plants. Through focusing on small indicators, benchmarking for single consumption of auxiliaries, and paired treatment, we achieved remarkable results, decreasing the coal The Company advocated the concept of green office, actively promoted the construction of official document platform, and kept modern paperless office to consumption rate of 52 units by over 5 g/kWh and dropping station service power consumption rates in 77 units by 0.2% over the previous year. minimize paper waste. The Company also strengthened operation and management of air-conditioning and heating system, requiring the temperature of airconditioner not less than 26℃ in summer and not higher than 20℃ in winter, to achieve great effect in electricity conservation. Huaneng Jinling Power Plant Tightening Pollution Emissions Control Making Greater Efforts in Modification of Desulphurization and Denitration We retrofitted generating units in an orderly way to increase the capacity and efficiency of desulphurization systems and equipped them with denitrification devices. In 2011, we increased capacity and efficiency of 3,070 MW desulphurization systems; 1,660 MW units were equipped with denitrification devices. We continued to reduce the total amount of SO2 emissions, effectively controlled the total amount of NOX emissions, and pushed forward mercury emissions monitoring in three pilot power plants in Fuzhou, Yushe, and Beijing respectively. Diagnosing energy conservation Reducing Emissions of Greenhouse Gases We actively developed the key technology of carbon capture and demonstrated operation, and formed our own CO2 capturing technology with independent intellectual property right, capturing CO2 from combustion flue gas. In 2011, capture devices (120,000 ton/year) in Shidongkou Power Plant II and another device (3,000 ton/year) in Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant were in stale operation. As the main initiator, Huaneng actively promote the establishment of the National Alliances of CO2 Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS) . 39 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 40 Comprehensive Use of Waste Strengthening Carbon Asset Management Green Development Energy Conservation, Emission Performance Energy Conservation, Emission The Company vigorously advocated the development mode of “resource – prodThe Company established a sound system of pollution emission and carbon asuct – waste – recycling resources”, adopted technology such as that of separating set management, formulated Regulations on Clean Development Mechanisms, Reduction and Green Development Reduction and Green Development fine coal and ash, grinding coal, and producing new types of building materials strengthened the carbon asset research in the post-Kyoto Protocol age, actively The Company achieved coal consumption rate for power generation of with slag and gypsum to promote the comprehensive use of by-products and participated in the development and trading of carbon asset in markets at home 318.68 g/kWh, down by 4.04 g/kWh over the previous year. reduce emissions of solid waste. We recycled coal-fired power plant substances and abroad, and promoted the development of CDM projects. In 2011, the comin closed loop and resource-efficient ways. In 2011, the company achieved a slag pany registered 29 CDM projects successfully with the United Nations. The Company achieved station service power consumption rate of and ash utilization rate of 76.34%. 5.08% , down by 0.14% over the previous year. The coal consumption rate for power generation of units of over Optimizing the Design of New Generating Units 600 MW was reduced by 3.38 g/kWh over the previous year. The Company achieved advanced levels in the power industry for We intensified our efforts in the inspection and guidance of commissioning newly-built power generating units, strictly implemented Standards on Infrastructure the energy consumption of generating units such as supercritiEngineering Design, Technical Reference on Infrastructure Engineering Energy Conservation, and made great efforts to promote the Model Coal-fired Power cal wet or air cooling units of 600 MW, and wet cooling units of 350 Plant Design and Model Wind Farm Design, so as to effectively improve the commissioning indicators of generating units. We strictly implemented the “Three MW and 300 MW. Synchronizations” for environmental protection in existing and new construction projects, strengthened the overall plan and management of designing, constructing and commissioning power plants, and ensured that environmental protection facilities achieve the “Three Synchronizations”. No serious environmental pollution occurred in 2011. In 2011,during a 168-hour commissioning of newly-built power generation units at or above 300 MW, the company achieved better results than the rates of coal consumption and power plant electricity consumption to reach or approach the designed values, thus improving the performance of newly-built power generation units. The company also completed performance tests of some generating units, including the Jinling No.2, Weihai No.5 and some other Coal-fired power generation units, whose performance met or exceeded the designed values. Coal Consumption Rate for Power Generation Station Service Power Consumption Rate Protecting the Environment 318.68 g/kWh 5.08 % Adhering to the principles of “development with protection”, the company While developing hydropower, the company established fish reproduction Coal consumption rate for power generation (g/kWh) Station service power consumption rate (%) attached great importance to the protection of the natural environment in the grounds, wild animals rescue stands, and rare botanical garden to build an construction of projects. For hydropower projects, we gave full consideration “Immigrant home” for local animals and plants. In 2011, the Wild Animal Rescue to the requirements around power generation, flood control, irrigation, sand Stand around the Nuozhadu Hydropower Station quarantined 16 rare animals blockage, shipping, soil and water conservation, aquaculture, tourism, regional they rescued, and then set them free in the forest. At the end of 2011, the development and others. We actively studied and took measures to protect the Lancang River Hydropower Company had invested nearly 450 million Yuan to surrounding environment and biodiversity, and implemented environmental protect the ecological environment around the Nuozhadu hydropower projects. protection measures during the period of project construction so as to harmonize the development of projects with the ecological environment. Nuozhadu Rare Botanical Garden Water consumption per unit of power generated(kg/kWh) Slag and ash utilization rate (%) 41 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 42 Case Study Huaneng Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant desulphurization efficiency of 97%, better than the standards of Level-I air in China. In response to the national environmental protection policy, in 2006, the Beijing Building a world-class green power plant Cogeneration Power Plant invested 180 million Yuan to construct denitration projects, in which it adopted the safer technology of urea’s pyrolysis, which has an efficiency higher than 90%, and reduces NOX in fumes to below 50 mg/nm3, up to globally advanced levels. Adopting Huaneng’s process and utilizing its core technology and use of advanced technology, and represents an increase in investment in equipment intellectual property rights, the Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant built the first 3,000 upgrading. It uses advanced co-generation of power and heat technology in ton/year CO2 capture demonstration project in China in 2007. After refining the domestic companies, with average thermal efficiency over 60% for the whole year, system, it was finally able to produce CO2 products with a purity of 99.99%. By the end which is about 20% higher than that of conventional condensed steam power plants. of 2011, it had an annual capture capacity of 3,000 tons, which means it has model This technology could save 400,000 tons of standard coal per year, and has saved a demonstration potential in reducing coal-fired power plant CO2 emissions. In addition, the Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant cooperated with the municipal total of more than four million tons of standard coal since it was put into operation. Actively developing new-type gas-fired power generation. Proceeding from sewage treatment plant to carry out power generation with blending and burning In 2008, the company took the lead to adopt the technology of poly-generation of the general strategy of energy development in Beijing, the Beijing Cogeneration sludge and succeeded in a feasibility experiment. The blending proportion was power, cool and heat, installed two sets of 1.25 million calorie LiBr refrigeration units Power Plant started to build two sets of combined gas-fired and steam heating units controlled at 3% to 5%, with a capacity of 100,000 tons of sludge per year, which with hot water sources to provide cool sources for production and living buildings in August 2010 and completed the project in December 2011, increasing power is equivalent to dissolving all of the sludge produced in the Gaobeidian Sewage equivalent to 22,000 square meters, which may reduce power plant electricity capacity by 923 MW and increasing heated areas by 13 million square meters. The Treatment Plant, thus achieving a harmless way of recycling and disposing of sludge. The Huaneng Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant, located in the southeast of central consumption by 1.7 million kWh. It also invested over 50 million Yuan to build the simultaneously installed environmental facilities were put into operation at the same In 2011, the Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant achieved the coal consumption of Beijing, was the first clean, high-efficiency and environmentally-friendly power first secondary sewage recycling system, which may save 12 million cubic meters of time, including the facilities of denitration, noise reduction, and water treatment. It power generation of 281.27 g/kWh, which was 53.73 g/kWh lower than the national plant in China, which combines the technology of CO2 capture, desulphurization, fresh water per year, greatly relieving Beijing’s water shortages. The Huaneng Beijing was the first time for the power plant to adopt the technology of gas engine unit belt average, and equivalent to savings about 400,000 tons of standard coal. It also denitration, urban sewage water utilization and poly-generation of power, cooling Cogeneration Power Plant was the first power plant that adopted the technology SSS clutch back pressure supplied heat in the project. It has won several first places in achieved a leading place and internationally advanced levels in safety, technology, and heat. It has an installed capacity of 1,768 MW, provides heat for an area of 63 of chimney and cooling tower integration, which increases the utilization rate of heating capacity, energy consumption and thermal efficiency among the same types and environmental protection indicators, laying a solid foundation for striding into million square meters, and ensures about 10% of the power supply and 1/3 of the chimney energy and decreases the temperature of circulating water, in so doing of units, and became the demonstration project of the Beijing Gas-fired Thermal the ranks of world-class green power plants. heat supply for Beijing. It plays an important supporting role in the energy supply improving the heating efficiency of the power plant. Power Center. system of Beijing. Reducing emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases. The Beijing The Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant carries out the capital’s strategy of developing Cogeneration Power Plant has unceasingly explored environmental protection safe, clean, high-efficiency and low-carbon energy, taking the creation of a resourcework, brought forth new ideas, and strengthened the control of waste emissions NOx concentration is Annual average heat supply Annual average steam supsaving and environmentally-friendly power plant as its objective and integrates the to effectively control and reduce emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases. In below 50 mg/nm3. accounts for about 30% of heat ply accounts for about 70% supply in Beijing. of Beijing’s total. concept of green development into production, operations and the entire process 2005, it invested 450 million Yuan in the modification of desulphurization systems, denitration of development, actively exploring new ideas of energy conservation, innovating adopted the technology of mature limestone-gypsum wet desulphurization and the flue gas Supply steam for industrial production in Beijing new methods of environmental protection, and striving to build a world-class green most advanced desulphurization process. After the desulphurization device was put 3 Supply hot water for power plant. into operation, the dust emission concentration was reduced to 20mg/m , achieving With adoption of slag-tap and coal domestic life in Beijing fly ash reburning technology, power generating unit top results in China. SO2 emissions concentrations were reduced to 15 mg/m3, with Improving energy efficiency. The Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant made positive flue gas emissions reduced by 65%. turbine electric precipitation cooler Annual average power sup100% comprehensive ply accounts for about 10% use of by-products from of Beijing’s total. power generation Gaobeidian Sewage sewage treatment device Treatment Plant desulphurization chimney and cooling tower integration 97% The desulphurization First power plant that installed CO2 Saving fresh water of 12 efficiency reaches 97%. capture devices in China, reducing million cubic meters per CO2 emissions by 3,000 tons per year. year 43 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 44 Concept of Healthy Development Intensive Management and Healthy Development Healthy development strongly supports sustainable development. To achieve healthy development, we must insist modern management and operates in compliance with all laws and regulations. We shall expand our operational scale, and enhance profitability. We must realize value preservation and growth of state-owned assets and continue to build Huaneng into a highlyefficient company that benefits all. Objectives of Healthy Development To achieve 600 billion kWh in power output; To achieve coal production of 60 million tons; To achieve sales revenue of RMB 260 billion Yuan; To secure power projects above 12 GW and coal projects above 8 million tons per year. Intensive Management and Healthy Development Measures of Healthy Development Wenchang Wind Farm Improving Management Levels Performance Management Events We continuously improved our performance management system with budgeting at its core, utilizing benchmarking, assigning responsibility, and linking performance and compensation. We continued to carry out annual performance assessment work for the performance of safety, business, development and Party building On March 21st the Company won the 2011 “Power Generation Company of the Year” award at the 14th Power and Electricity as the main body of work. Keeping in mind rising coal prices, we adopted a number of incentive measures, World Asia Congress. including readjusting power generation and coal use, reducing controllable expenses, and rewarding individual contributions to total profits, so as to encourage each subsidiary company to constantly improve business profits. On July 14th the Company created a historical record in power generation, generating 1.963 billion kWh in a single day, up by We also improved our incentive and constraint mechanisms, and fully implemented an annual salary system for 28.52% over the previous year. heads of each enterprise, and linked their monthly compensation with their profits. On September 30th the Company acquired a 100% stake in the Maweigou Hydropower Co., Ltd., with total installed capacity of 55 We perfected a business performance evaluation indicator system, increased EVA index evaluation weighting, MW in Enshi city of Hubei province. developed Guidance on Further Strengthening Management of Economic Value Added, and conducted EVA On October 17 th the non-public issued stock of the Inner Mongolia Huaneng Power Plant, one of Huaneng’s shareholding enterevaluation in all subsidiaries units so as to improve the management level of EVA in an all-all round way. prises, was unconditionally approved by the issuance examination committee of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). Budget Management On November 24th Huaneng Power International was awarded the prize of “Most Popular Listed Company among Investors in the We further improved the comprehensive budget management system with the financial budget as the core, and Chinese Mainland and Hong Kong” at the Golden Bauhinia China Securities Award ceremony. gave full play to its driving role in optimizing the allocation of resources and enhancing the capabilities of sustainable development. In 2011, we comprehensively analyzed both the internal and external business situation, and On December 2nd the Company was awarded the title of “2011 Valuable Management Model” at the 11th China Annual Managedeveloped a budget program based on principle of “readjusting the structure, improving efficiency, controlling ment Conference. risks and creating the best” in combination with development trends principle of in the electricity, coal and capital markets, and our own business development capabilities. We clarified the roles of each professional department of the Group Company regarding budget management, and strengthened the coordination and unity of the key elements in the budget, thus improving achievements in the main budget index over the previous year. Sustainability Report 2011 46 Intensive Management and Intensive Management and Healthy Development Healthy Development Comprehensive Risk Management Hainan, Chongqing and Jiangxi. The Gongguoqiao Hydropower Station also We actively promoted the construction of internal control mechanisms with Striving for Reasonable Electricity Pricing implemented the electricity price. risk prevention as the focus, and combined the analysis of medium and longWe actively strived for a reasonable electricity and heating price, and strived term trends to determine risk factors. We strengthened yearly and daily risk to improve comprehensive price settlement levels. In 2011, after three state Strengthening Recovering of Electricity Bills evaluations and prepared comprehensive reports on risk management. We also adjustments of on-grid prices and coal-fired power output times, all of our tracked risk year by year, with continuous monitoring, intensified risk warnings, We intensified our efforts to recover electricity bills and old debts in key areas, subsidiary companies closely cooperated to ensure the implementation of the and improved system processes, so as to effectively prevent financial, managemanaged contracts strictly to increase both production and income, and strived electricity tariff. The Company’s settlement price was stable, with occasional ment and legal risks. In 2011, the Company prepared and issued Huaneng’s to increase economic profits. In 2011, we achieved a 100% recovery rate for all upward adjustments, and moreover, the remarkable effect occurred in Internal Control Manual (Trial) . annual cumulative electricity bills. the companies with large market shares, like the companies in Shandong, We continued to strengthen supervision and rectification in auditing. In 2011, we completed 1,019 audits, made 2,068 suggestions on rectification, reduced engineering investment by 273 million Yuan after auditing, and carried out 13 Speeding up Development and Construction post-project evaluations so as to give effective play to the “Immunity Function” of internal auditing. The Company comprehensively promoted education and training around law compliance, fully completed three-year objectives of legal Project Preparation Work Project analysis and evaluation work, and further improved mechanisms for preventing legal risks. Adhering to the principles of “extensive investigations, best selection, good construction, and strict management” in the Company’s project management, the Company strived to maximize investment returns of infrastructure construction projects. In 2011, the Company actively promoted the development of projects with large capacEnhancing Power Marketing voltage to increase efficiency and make greater marginal power generation ity, low emissions and good benefits, achieving approved power projects of 16,663.5 MW, and completed 138.86% of annual objectives, including low carbon and clean energy projects of 10,843.5 MW, accounting for 65.07% of total approved capacity. Some key projects were also approved, including the second phase project in the contributions. Shidongkou Power Plant II and Unit 6 in the third phase of the Fuzhou Power Plant. Over the year, the Company secured coal projects of 1.8 million tons and port projects Expanding the Power Market In 2011, our electricity output acceleration rate was 1.2% higher than the of 72.7 million tons. national level. We increased equipment utilization by 115 hours over the We focused on the analysis of the electric power market, and urged each subsidiary to ensure the coordination of work for power generation plans in previous year. The utilization hours in 25 areas were higher than the local average Infrastructure Construction Management levels, and we maintained leading levels in 16 areas including Beijing, Ningxia, accordance with the working ideas of “Earlier, more effective and focused.” We We extensively promoted institutionalization and standardization in infrastructure construction. In 2011, we developed six rules and regulations for infrastructure conJiangsu, Zhejiang, and the eastern part of Inner Mongolia. We achieved obvious gave full play to the role of our tertiary marketing network, persisted in daily struction management, including Interim Provisions on Evaluating and Rewarding Hydropower Projects, Interim Provisions on Evaluating and Rewarding Wind effects in adjusting voltage to increase efficiency, and realized 16.5 billion kWh analysis, benchmarking once every ten days, and with monthly summaries Power Projects, Interim Provisions on Managing the Progress of Power Projects, Rules for Implementation of Performance Evaluation in Infrastructure Construction in savings through our alternative energy policy. The utilization hours of 600MW to effectively strengthen marketing analysis in a timely and scientific way. (2011), Measures on Risk Control of Power Project Construction, and Interim Regulations on Survey, Design and Management of Hydropower Projects. or higher generating units came to 5,640 hours, an increase of 338 hours over The Company strived for power supply plan improvements, increased power With more efforts around the guidance and supervision of infrastructure construction quality, the Company actively promoted detailed management, model process the previous year. We also optimized the structure of our electricity account efficiency, and ensured the leading position of the Company by unit usage hours. management and the creation of excellence. The Company strengthened quality controls and delivery acceptance management in all stages, including equipment sursettlement, increasing the electricity base by 0.86%. We also optimized the power supply structure and actively readjusted power veillance work, quality inspection, generating unit commissioning, performance evaluations and others, so as to effectively promote project quality. The expansion project in Phase IV of the Huaneng Tashidian Power Plant is one of the key power projects that will be put into production during the 12th Five-Year Plan in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, and is also an important supporting point of power grid connections in the southern and northern parts of Xinjiang. On November 23rd, the power plant achieved great success in igniting the boiler of the first generating unit, and achieved good results in various technical and economic indicators, and outstanding economic returns, so that the project became one of the year’s highlights. 47 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 48 Intensive Management and Standardizing Fuel Management Intensive Management and In 2011, the Company’s installed capacity of new power projects reached 12.152 GW, including 8.241 GW of coal-fired power, 923 MW of pneumoelectric power, 491 MW of hydropower, 2.422 GW of wind power, 50 MW of photovoltaic power, and 25 MW of biomass power generation. As the Company made striking Healthy Development Healthy Development improvements in project quality, we had 5 projects awarded the silver prize in the National Excellent Power Project, and 14 projects awarded the National Excellent Power Project Prize. We strived to consolidate the fuel supply in main channels, made greater Central control of coal sampling, preparation and testing efforts in importing coal and purchasing domestic coal, and gave play to the role of centralized procurement and unified allocation, so that we List of Projects Named Excellent Power Project in 2011 ensured the fuel supply and controlled its price. In 2011, we increased important contract fulfillment rates by 5.7% and imported 27.69 million tons Prize-winning Projects Capacity Prize throughout the year, up by 0.94 million tons. We purchased 33.82 million tons of domestic coal, achieved a self-supply rate of power coal of 12.1%, up Phase II Extension Project of Huaneng Jinggangshan Power Plant Silver Prize of National Excellent Power Project by 1.2% over the previous year, and blended and burned 18.68 million tons 2×660MW of lignite coal, an increase of 9.16 million tons over the previous year. Phase I of Huaneng Jiutai Power Plant 2×660MW Silver Prize of National Excellent Power Project We strengthened intensive management of seaborn coal, and directly transported 65.21 million tons of coal to coastal power plants, up by 42% Silver Prize of National Excellent Power Project over the previous year. By means of “Sea to river, sea to land,” we transported Phase I of Huaneng Tongjiang Wind Power Plant 99MW and supplied 8.86 million tons of coal. All of these played a positive role in plant. We also rated losses, promoted the automatic fuel regulatory system the supply of coal for central and eastern China. 49.5MW Silver Prize of National Excellent Power Project of the Baotou Power Plant II, and carried out experiments in power plant Project of Huaneng Changyi Wind Power Plant I benchmarking in fuel management, so that we achieved coal calorific value Project of Huaneng Tongliao Zhurihe Wind Power Plant 147MW Silver Prize of National Excellent Power Project We established a closed-loop indicator system throughout the fuel management differences of 87 calories/kg between coal as received and coal as fired, dropped process and formulated and announced standards on coal expenses in the by 14 calories/kg over the previous year. Project of Huaneng Tongliao Zhurihe Wind Power Plant 147MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award Phase I of Huaneng Tongjiang Wind Power Plant 99MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award Fulfillment rate of important Imported coal throughout the year Self-supply rate of power coal Blended combustion of lignite coal 12.1 1,868 contracts uTp by 5.7 27.69 Phase I of Huaneng Laoting Wind Power Plant 49.5MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award million tons. % million tons. % Phase I of Huaneng Qidong Wind Power Plant 91.5MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award Project of Huaneng Changyi Wind Power Plant I 49.5MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award Project of Huaneng Inner Mongolia Keyouzhong Banner Gaoliban Strengthening Cost Controls 49.5MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award Wind Power Plant We further perfected the comprehensive cost management system that takes strategy as its orientation, takes assets as the main line and covers the life cycle of the Phase I, II and III of Huaneng Fuxin Wind Power Plant 501MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award assets. We issued Guiding Opinions on Further Strengthening Cost Management, improved the all-staff, full-process and all-round cost management system, and enhanced our cost control capabilities. In 2011, we continued to promote standard construction, thus the quota standards covering production, operations, construction, Phase I of Huaneng Jiutai Power Plant 2×660MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award human resources and other aspects were basically formed. We also strived to float the interests of loans downward, and made full use of bonds and trusts to achieve direct low-cost financing, reduce financial costs and improve economic returns. Phase II Extension Project of Huaneng Jinggangshan Power Plant 2×660MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award New Generating Unit Project of Huaneng Changchun Thermal 2×350MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award Power Plant Generating Unit 1 in Phase II of Huaneng Jinling Power Plant 1,000MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award Project of “Developing Large Generating Unit and Close Down ` 2×300MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award Small Ones” in Huaneng Baiyanghe Power Plant Installation of Air-Cooled Island in Phase II of Huaneng Pingliang Power Plant 2×600MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award New Project of Huaneng Changchun Biomass Thermal Power Plant 2×15MW China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award Automatic sampling equipment 49 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 50 Intensive Management and Intensive Management and Healthy Development Healthy Development Strengthening Financial Support Healthy Development Performance In accordance with the general ideas of “one prevention, two controls, three raised funds of 5.515 billion Yuan. Additionally, we expanded our cooperation overall plannings and four reinforcements,” we took various measures like with external shareholders, expanded our sources of funds, and completed exploring the sources of funds, strengthening budget control, making multithe increase of capital and equity structure adjustment to the Lancang River lateral communications and coordination, granting emergency loans, ruling over Company, the Mengxi Power Plant, the Duanzhai Coal-fired Power Plant, the credit resources of the financial company, and others, to constantly intensify Guicheng Trust Company, the Yongcheng Insurance Company and Huaneng fund management, and strictly control fund risk. Investco Ross, raising total funds of 3.939 billion Yuan. We strengthened our strategic cooperation with state-owned commercial banks to obtain sufficient bank financing. We enlarged the scale of bond financing, and developed the special financing of postal savings, insurance investment plans, trust loans, finance leases and other non-credit bond financing channels. We also made innovations in financing modes, explored low-cost financing products, and saved interest on about 342 million Yuan throughout the year. Furthermore, we strengthened liquidity management, intensified our efforts to take back accounts receivable, improved inventory turnover such as coal, and focused on reducing the occupation of working capital, so as to improve the service efficiency of funds and benefits. We strengthened capital operations, actively cultivated the main body of selfdevelopment in the market, and delivered financing functions in the capital Yongcheng Insurance Company market. In 2011, Huaneng Renewables Corporation was listed in Hong Kong, and Promoting Information System Construction We work to plan the construction of information system projects as a whole, and steadily press ahead with it. On the basis of experiments in seven power plants, such as the Dalian Power Plant and the Shidongkou Power Plant II, we promoted an integrated financial management system of online assets and in the Huaneng Stock Company, Huaneng Jilin Company and Lancang Rivery Company. We also deeply promoted the optimization and upgrading of information systems for human resource management, some functions of which have made up for the gap in SAP human resources system in China. In January 2011, we put infrastructure construction supplier modules of e-commerce systems into trial operation, which covered 540 suppliers of material and equipment. In 2011, we fully carried out information system training. Through expert’s explanations, introduction of the project team, seminars, lectures, video conferences, compilations of video teaching materials and other ways, we held several information system trainings with 8,422 attendances, covering the human resources system, integrated financial assets system, information safety, relevant software and video conference systems, assets management platforms, and others, which comprehensively improved employees’ operational skills in information systems and laid a solid foundation for Huaneng to realize modern management. Modern power plant control centre 51 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 52 Case Study Huaneng Haimen Power Plant Striving to build a first-class enterprise with the strongest value creation ability benchmarking power plant fuel management as its focus, and reinforced detailed management in fuel costs, strengthening its market analysis and forecasting, making timely communication with departments in charge, striving to improve the supply structure of incoming coal, doing well in inventory adjustments, and increasing on the improvement of development quality and efficiency, making full use blending combustion of lignite coal. The Haimen Power Plant also strengthened of its advantages, deeply tapping its potential, strengthening management management around coal sampling, preparation and testing, and supervision and improving performance. It made great efforts to promote activities to over the performance of fuel. It straightened out issues around transportation and improve indicators, strengthened fuel management, and intensified marketing unloading of coal, reasonably increased the capacity of the coal stockyard from management, so as to constantly improve its profitability. 220,000 tons to 300,000 tons and accelerated the construction of the No.2 and 3 Promoting activities to improve indicators. The Haimen Power Plant has worked unloading stands, which may increase the coal loading capacity from 23,000 tons to to develop first-class indicators and implementation measures to improve energy 30,000 tons per day. Through unremitting efforts, the Haimeng Power Plant realized indicators, established evaluation mechanisms in benchmarking management, the opening of the Haimen wharf, optimized inspection formalities at customs, and analyzed its shortcomings, and taken countermeasures to intensify benchmarking reduced demurrage costs and fuel costs. effects. While optimizing operations and management, improving technical Intensify marketing management. According to the principle of “Earlier, more measures, strengthening position analysis, carrying out competitions between effective and focused , the marketing personnel of the Haimen Power Plant stationed different shifts, and strengthening the operational management of generating in Guangzhou worked to understand power market trends and communicated with unit parameters. The Haimen Power Plant has promoted in-depth and detailed dispatchers. The Haimen Power Plant made timely adjustments in its maintenance work in energy conservation. Taking the opportunity to overhaul generating units, plan, and increased the annual planned power output. Additionally, the Power Huaneng Haimen Power Plant, located in Shantou city of Guangdong province, is one of the key the Haimen Power Plant made more than 30 technical transformations, including Plant seized the opportunity of the power shortage in Guangdong, formulated power project in Guangdong province and a national key project. Its two generating units (2 x combining suction fans and booster fans, retrofitting new-type steam seals, incentive measures to increase electricity output, strengthened communication 1,036 MW) in the phase-I project were put into production on September 27th, 2009. It is the first modifying frequency conversion of auxiliaries, and optimizing coal powder pipes with shift leaders and dispatchers, and improved the mechanism of “daily analysis, million-KW grade high-efficiency and environmentally-friendly power plant in the power supply and flow paths, which have greatly decreased coal consumption and power plant benchmarking every ten days, and monthly summaries.” The Haimen Power In 2011, the Haimen Power Plant took a series of measures, including tapping area of the China Southern Power Grid Company. In recent years, the Haimen Power Plant has electricity consumption rates, and achieved obvious effects in energy conservation. In Plant created a historical record in daily, monthly and yearly power generation. potentials to increase efficiency, and reducing costs, among other measures, from committed to being an energy base integrated with power, coal, railway, port and transportation. 2011, the Haimen Power Plant obtained the best achievements in China, with power Its utilization hours of generating units were 881 hours more than that of tracking which the plant obtained actively benefits. It successfully created production and This base may play an important role in meeting the demand for power in Guangdong province and the need of fast growth in load, promoting optimal and reasonable power distribution, and plant electricity consumption rates of 3.85%, down by 0.51% over the previous year, units in Guangdong province. Additionally, the Power Plant implemented the first operational indicators. Its annual power output of the No1. and 2 generating units further giving strong support for the power supply in the east of Guangdong. and coal consumption of 286.10 g/kWh, down by 6.87 g/kWh in comparison with tariff of power output generated by units with denitration devices in Guangdong. In reached 13.471 billion kWh, and its unit capacity contribution was at the top of the 2010. accordance with the national policies on electricity tariff adjustment, it ensured the list in Huaneng. It became a famous “industrial business card” in Huaneng and in In 2011, the Haimen Power Plant took “building a first-class enterprise with the strongest abilities in value creation” as its annual working objective, and focused Strengthening fuel management. The Haimen Power Plant took the creation of implementation of on-grid tariffs so as to realize increases in income and revenue. Guangdong province. 53 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 54 Concept of International Development Global Perspective and International Development International Development is an important pathway to sustainable development. International development must be based on a global perspective, implement an internationalized business strategy, strengthen exchanges and cooperation in the field of offshore energy resources, and gradually expand international market share. We must strengthen offshore asset management, effectively control risks; scientifically allocate global capital, talent and market resources, and improve our international operations management skills. Objectives of International Development To ensure the safety of offshore asset management; To improve the profitability of offshore asset and achieve reasonable investment returns; To make good use of two types of markets and two types of resources so as to develop the cause of Huaneng. Global Perspective and International Development Measures of International Development Developing and Merging Power Projects Abroad Events The Company paid equal attention to development and acquisition, and actively implemented the “go global” strategy. In accordance with the principles of giving priority to efficiency, we actively developed and utilized overseas low carbon and clean energy , as well as coal for power generation, steadily increasing our offshore installed capacity and coal capacity. By the end of 2011, we had extended our overseas business to 7 countries in four continents with an installed capacity of nearly 6,000 MW. On January 18th the Company signed a cooperation agreement on the technology of reducing CO2 emissions and improving the efficiency of coal-fired power plants with the American Electric Power Company. Acquiring a stake in the Australia Power Company (OzGen) in 2003 Australia Callide C Power Plant On April 11th the Company, in association with the Guangdong Yudean Group Co., Ltd. , acquired 50% of In December 2003, Huaneng acquired a 50% stake in OzGen with USD $ 227 million, InterGen’s stake held by the India GMR group, with USD $1.232 billion. which was the first “go global” project, and opened the way for Chinese power On April 18th the Company’s overseas recruitment delegation went to America to carry out high-level generation enterprises to operate and manage power plants in a developed country. overseas talent recruitment activities. On May 16 th Neil Smith, InterGen’s President and CEO, and other senior management paid a visit to the OzGen has two power plants, the Millmerran and Callide C power plants, with headquarters. total installed capacity of 1,800 MW and equity capacity of about 960 MW. Since the acquisition, Huaneng has taken technological advantages, sent Australia Millmerran Power Plant On May 23rd Anne Bligh, governor of Queensland, Australia, sent a letter to thank the Huaneng Group for management and technical staff to help enhance the operational level, and donating AUD 100,000 to flooded areas. achieved better results in production and operations. In 2011, the company achieved a generating output of 7.8 billion kWh, and unit utilization of 6,518 hours. Sustainability Report 2011 56 Global Perspective and Global Perspective and Developing and Constructing the Shweli River Hydropower Station Stage I in Myanmar with a BOT model in 2006 Strengthening Internationalized Operations and Management In December 2006, relying on regional advantages of adjacent to the Lancang River and the Mekong River and its technological, operational and management advantages in International Development International Development hydropower stations, the Huaneng Lancang River Hydropower Company initiated and established the Yunnan Joint Power Development Co., Ltd., which signed the “Agreement Developing Effective Operational Measures on a Joint Venture to Develop a Hydropower Project on the Shweli River for Stage I” with DHPI of the First Power Department of Myanmar to build and operate the Shweli The Company formulated Interim Regulations on Management of Overseas Property Rights, Interim Measures on Management of Shareholding Enterprises of River Hydropower Station Stage I with a BOT model. This project is the first foreign hydropower project with a BOT model in China. As the power station adopted the special power China Huaneng Hong Kong Company, and other rules and regulations, so as to implement absolute control in the major decision-making of overseas subsidiary supply model of “one power station for two power grids”, it opened the way to transmit power output generated abroad back to China, along with creating a new international companies. Huaneng Power International has specifically set up a Tuas management office, reorganized Tuas’ board of directors and enjoys veto rights. Through setting cooperation model. up an Australia Representative Office, sending general technical managers accredited to the Australian Power Company, and other ways, Huaneng has gradually formed its own supervision method combining equity management with operational management. Huaneng selected and sent Huaneng’s directors or members to InterGen’s Regulatory Commissions and other professional committees, so as to regularly submit information on production and operations, and strengthen daily supervision. The Shweli River Hydropower Station Stage I has total investments of USD $ 475 million, with installed capacity of 6×100 MW. From damming the river to connecting to the power grid, Huaneng completed the project in just 28 months, which has fostered a good company image in Myanmar. Improving Risk Control By the end of 2011, the Shweli River Hydropower Station Stage I had generated The Company formulated and improved Regulations on Comprehensive 9.726 billion kWh, of which 5.287 billion kWh was transmitted back to China, and Management of Risks, and developed methods on risk evaluation of overseas 4.359 billion kWh to Myanmar. This project has strongly supported the economy investment and operations. We collected, mastered, and analyzed the industrial both in China and in Myanmar, and made positive contributions to cooperation policies, laws and regulations, and market information in each country where in the Greater Mekong Sub-region. we have operations, made more analysis and research of risks, and developed emergency plans to prevent the occurrence of various risks. Since going abroad from the first time in 2003, we have made our foreign business operations Britain Rocksavage Power Plant stronger and have obtained good investment returns. Shweli River Hydropower Station Stage I Promoting International Exchange and Cooperation Cultivating International Business Talent The Company have continued to attach importance to bringing our own The Company have emphasized building an international business talent advantages into play, thus actively strengthening exchanges and cooperation Acquiring a 100% stake of the Singapore Tuas Power Company in 2008 team, took the advantage of overseas projects to speed up the cultivation with companies in the United States, Europe, Australia and other places, and of international business talents who are proficient in foreign legal systems, In March 2008, Huaneng Power International successfully acquired a 100% stake of the Singapore Tuas Power Ltd. with S$4.235 billion from Singapore Temasek promoted the mutual research and development of projects, talent training and financial taxation, corporate governance, international business knowledge and Shareholding Company through international public bidding. This is Huaneng’s first wholly-funded power plant abroad. exchanges on management so as to improve the Company’s internationalization so on. In the meantime, we have actively attracted talent from around the world Tuas Power Ltd. has a total installed capacity of 2,670 MW. Since the acquisition, Huaneng has taken serving the local power market as its highest purpose, and level. In January 2011, we signed a technological cooperation agreement to Huaneng, and strived to build an talented team with political reliability, sound pursuing long-term win-win development as its objective. Therefore, Huaneng made great progress in the development and construction of new projects, with the American Electric Power Company on reducing CO2 emissions and working style, and a full range of professions adapted to working and living successively launching the Tembusu project and CCP5, which has helped Huaneng achieve greater market share and build up its strengths. improving the efficiency of coal-fired power plants. Both parties will adopt our abroad. self-developed CO2 capturing technology, cooperate on research about CO2 emissions reductions in coal-fired power plants, and promote the construction of demonstration projects in due time. Acquiring a 50% stake of InterGen in 2010 At the end of November 2010, Huaneng, in association with the Guangdong Yudean The Philippines Quezon Power Plant Group, acquired a 50% stake of InterGen held by India GMR Group with USD $1.232 billion, and the deal was completed on April 11th 2011. InterGen has 12 power plants, among which there are 9 gas-fired power plants, 3 coal-fired power plants, and 1 pressure station and pipeline work in Mexico. These 12 power plants are distributed in 5 countries including the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Australia and the Philippines, with total installed capacity of 8,146 MW and equity capacity of 6,312 MW. Mexico Chihuahua Power Plant 57 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 58 Global Perspective and Global Perspective and International Development International Development International Development Performance ● OzGen ● Shweli River Hydropower Station Stage I ● Tuas Power Company ● InterGen coal-fired power plant ● SpaldingⅡ (under construction) 900 capacity of the whole naturalgascombinedcyclepowerplant power plant（MW） : compressor station / pipeline ● Coryton ● Rocksavage ● Spalding ● Gateway (under construction) 779 806 860 900 capacity of the whole capacity of the whole capacity of the whole capacity of the whole hydropower power plant（MW） : power plant（MW） : power plant（MW） : power plant（MW） : oil-fired power plant clean coal + biomass ● Rijnmond ● Maasstroom ● Pondera (under construction) 1350 Britain capacity of the whole 820 428 capacity of the whole capacity of the whole ● Tuas Power Company power plant（MW） : power plant（MW）: power plant（MW）: 1200 capacity of the whole Netherlands power plant（MW） : ● Moerdijk (under construction) 900 capacity of the whole ● Tuas Power Company United States 1470 power plant（MW） : capacity of the whole power plant（MW） : ● SLP (under construction) 200 capacity of the whole power plant（MW） : ● La Rosita ● Quezon Mexico ●Shweli River Hydropower 1,100 capacity of the whole Myanmar （MW） : 460 Station Stage I capacity of the whole power plant Philippines 600 capacity of the whole power plant（MW） : power plant（MW）: ● Libramiento ● Quezon Ⅱ (under construction) ● Bajio compressor station / pipeline 600 Singapore capacity of the whole ● Tembusu Project (under construction) 500 capacity of the whole power plant（MW） : 230 ● CCP5 (under construction) capacity of the whole power plant（MW） : power plant（MW） : 400 capacity of the whole ● Chihuahua power plant（MW） : Hydropower steam cogeneration 271 capacity of the whole power plant（MW） : ● Campeche 252 capacity of the whole power plant（MW） : Millmerran Callide C 850 920 capacity of the whole capacity of the whole Australia power plant（MW） : power plant（MW） : Distribution of the Company’s Overseas Asset 59 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 60 Case Study Tuas Power Ltd. The Successful Model of Huaneng Going Global Tuas Power Ltd. was established in March 1995, and its subsidiary power plant determined the management direction of Tuas Power Ltd.Taking into is located in the south of Singapore with a total installed capacity of 2,670 MW, consideration its expertise in the management of overseas assets, in combination accounting for about 26% of total installed capacity in the Singaporean power with the social, economic and legal environment in Singapore, and the actual market. The power plant is one of the three major power plants in Singapore and situation of Tuas Power Ltd., Huaneng took account of risks, increases of development of corporate culture and promote cultural cohesion. Huaneng construction according to plan, both of which will be put into operation in early plays an important role in ensuring the power supply in Singapore. efficiency, and promotion of development as its mission . Huaneng oriented the gave strong support in the production and management of the power plant, 2013 and 2014 respectively. In 2010, seizing the opportunity, and complying with management of Tuas Power Ltd. as part of strategic operational management, management of project construction, bank loans and financing, and other the energy strategic plan of the government, Tuas Power Ltd. developed a plan Successfully acquiring a stake. As early as in 2004, Huaneng made a detailed laid emphasis on the structure of corporate governance, strengthened aspects, based on which Tuas Power Ltd. focused on marketing and production, for retrofitting generating units to use natural gas instead of oil, that is, building investigation on the production and management of the Tuas Power Company. management in budget incentives and major decisions, and actively promoted increased income and reduced expenditures, and constantly improved its CCP5 (400MW) generators in place of two oil-fired generating units. The project In early 2008, Temasek officially started the program to sell Tuas Power Ltd., integrated management. On the basis of its original management system, development quality and efficiency. was started in early 2011, and is expected to be put into operation in the fourth and Huaneng actively participated in the bid. In order to win trust and support Huaneng reorganized the Board of Directors and added the directors of Extending the development field. While keeping safety and production quarter of 2013. With the start of both projects, Tuas Power Ltd. has successfully from the management, labors and the trade union of Tuas Power Ltd., Huaneng Huaneng, and set up a Risk Management Committee to strengthen risk orderly, keeping management controllable and highly-efficient, and keeping transformed its development mode from single power generation to providing communicated meticulously with them. Huaneng promised to retain the management. Huaneng also established mechanisms to regularly report and performance levels increasing steadily, and based on the energy development power supply and utility services, thus further enhancing its competitiveness. original management and staff, and keep its existing development direction after acquisition. On the basis of long-term understanding and thorough communicate information about operations and management, improved strategy in Singapore, Tuas Power Ltd. has successively launched projects of Since the acquisition, Tuas Power Ltd. had, by the end of 2011, achieved power communication, Huaneng acquired a 100% stake of Tuas Power Ltd. with internal control systems in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and Tembusu and CCP5. In November 2009, infrastructure construction of the output of 40.7 billion kWh. In comparison with the number of labors before S$4.235 billion in March 2008. introduced internal controls and external audit mechanisms; we actively Tembusu large-scale integrated hydropower and steam project of Tuas Power the acquisition, there was an increase of 95 persons in the company, therefore, publicized and implemented Huaneng’s “three color concept” to strengthen the Ltd. was started in the Tembusu Industrial Park of Jurong Island. It creatively Huaneng honored its commitment of “no downsizing” and provided more Promoting integrated management. After acquiring its stake, Huaneng introduced mixing fuel of “clean coal + biomass” into power generation, which jobs for local people. The successful acquisition and excellent operations of not only meets strict environmental requirements, but also provides relatively Tuas Power Ltd. has not only fostered a good image of Chinese enterprises in low-cost hydropower products, promoting local economic development. Singapore, but also accumulated experience for Huaneng in operating in the Presently, phase I of the Tembusu project and its A project in phase II are under competitive power market of a developed economy, as well as becoming a successful model in Huaneng’s internationalization strategy. 61 Transforming and Upgrading•Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 62 Concept of Harmonious Development Mutual Benefit and Harmonious Development Harmonious development is an important prerequisite for sustainable development. To achieve harmonious development, we must adhere to the basic principle of mutually beneficial cooperation, actively shoulder our social responsibility, strive to create both a favorable internal and external business environment, and share the fruits of our development with our stakeholders, so as to promote the construction of a harmonious society and become a model corporate citizen. Objectives of Harmonious Development Be responsible to our employees to achieve common growth; Be responsible to our clients and partners to achieve mutual benefit and win-win outcomes; Be responsible to the community in order to contribute to society and promote a harmonious society. Mutual Benefits and Harmonious Development Measures of Harmonious Development Building Harmonious Labor Relations We believe that our employees are central to our operational success and company development. We rely on them and do our best to stimulate and encourage their enthusiasm, innovation and creativity at work, and encourage staff to achieve development in common with the enterprise. We recruited 4,850 new people, 2,984 of whom were this year’s university graduates. By the end of 2011, we employed 133,270 people, 32,636 of whom are women (24.5%). Events Protecting the Rights and Interests of Employees Level of Professional Technicians We strictly abided by Labor Laws of the People’s Republic of China, and other applicable laws and regulations, enforced all staff to sign labor contracts. According On April 22nd Huaneng’s Aid Project in Ali of Tibet was awarded the title of “Moving Electric Power Team”. to the laws, we signed labor contracts with employees, and achieved 100% of signing and honoring labor and collective contracts, and paying social insurance. We On June 17 th the Company was awarded the title of “Advanced Unit in Human Resources Work among China Top 500 Energy Groups”. persisted in equal employment, eliminated the discrimination of race, sex, diseases Junior On August 14th the Company held a joint conference with the People's Government of the Tibet Autonomous Region to jointly study and others, put an end to forced labor, and fully implemented annual leave with Intermediate and promote the construction and development of hydropower in Tibet. pay, 7.2 days per person. In the accordance with relevant rules and regulations, we Senior On November 12 th the Company was granted the award of “Top 10 Model Enterprise in 30-year Practice of Corporate Culture” by the actively recruited the disabled, and army men transferred to civilian work, signed Other Chinese Enterprise Culture Research Institute. Special Collective Contract on Preventing the Rights and Interests of Female Workers with women staff, and gave equal remuneration for equal work for men and women On November 22nd the Company’s 2010 Sustainability Report was selected as a model report by the China Network Center of the United Employee Age Distribution workers. Nations Global Compact. We supported labor union organizations at all levels to strengthen their selfOn December 2 nd the Company’s sustainability report made the ranks of the List of GoldenBee Outstanding CSR Reports for the third improvement and develop their work according to law. The enrollment ratio of consecutive year and was awarded “GoldenBee Outstanding CSR Report • Evergreen Award 2011”. employees in labor unions at all subsidiary enterprises was 100%. We continuously Below 35 improved the Workers’ Congress System and encouraged openness and 36-40 employee participation in our management of operational affairs. We smoothed 41-45 communication channels for employees, encouraged staff to offer advice and 46-50 suggestions, and safeguarded employees’ rights to know, to participate, to supervise Above 50 and to express. All grassroots enterprises were sticking to the regulation that leaders communicate with employees regularly at scheduled time. Sustainability Report 2011 64 Focusing on the Health of Employees Mutual Benefit and Mutual Benefit and We continuously improved our health care system and occupational health We also implemented a program of assisting employees step by step, focused management system, and established a medical assistance program for coping on their mental health, and provided production and operational staff with Harmonious Development Harmonious Development with major diseases. Coal mine enterprises established security systems for occupational health guidance and mental health counseling services. We employees to monitor their health, prevent and control occupational diseases. provided all employees annual physical examinations with special inspections of We intensified our efforts in the supervision, examination and management occupational diseases for employees in special posts. We improved health and of occupational diseases and labor environment hazards, improved protection medical archives and implemented tracking and reexamination to prevent the facilities and first-aid equipment for noise reduction and others. We conducted occurrence of occupational diseases. In 2011, we achieved 100% listing of staff in regular inspections, maintenance and management of labor protection our medical examination system and archives. articles, organized our staff to participate in safety and health training, and emergency drills, and spread the common sense of prevention and treatment of occupational diseases and occupational health. Promoting Employee Development took an active part in the activities of introducing high-level talents at home We established intensive human resources management mechanisms, and abroad so as to provide a strong human resource base for promoting the optimized the allocation and portfolio of talents and actively built “three sustainable development of our company. By the end of 2011, the number of channels” for the development of production and business management, senior and middle-level professionals accounted for 38% of the total amount of professional technicians, and operators. We built a platform for the growth the company’s professionals. of talent, and improved incentive mechanisms and remuneration allocation mechanisms to arouse the enthusiasm of employees to be dedicated in their In 2011, the Company carried out management selection through competition, posts. We made greater efforts in the introduction of talents, implemented the and completed the open competitive recruitment of 10 division-level and human resource strategy of introducing overseas talent and going global. We 25 deputy director-level positions for the headquarters and subsidiaries. In the meantime, we pushed forward the pilot work of competitive selection in Huaneng Power International Inc., North United Power Co., Ltd. , and companies in the Lancang River and Shandong province. We focused on employee capacity building, increased education and training, and made full use of the Huaneng Education and Training Center, Shanghai Electric Power Maintenance Training Center and other platforms to conduct diversified and normalized training. We actively organized and participated in competitive bids for the technical projects and labor within and outside the company, and carried out the appraisal of vocational skills and evaluation of technicians. In 2011, our training expenses came to 207.07million Yuan, training 550,142 people. Building Harmonious Partner Relations We continuously focused on managing enterprises according to the law, doing business with integrity, and fulfilling win-win responsibilities to partners in earnest. We actively carried out Caring about the Lives of Employees evaluation and investigation on social responsibility of supply chains, strengthened communication and collaboration with strategic partners, implemented the policy around localized staff, procurement and operations in remote ethnic minority areas and overseas so as to promote economic development and improve people’s living standards where we have projects. We concerned ourselves about bad-off employees and established normalized mechanisms to visit and express sympathy to them. Furthermore, we developed systems to assist workers suffering serious diseases, cared for retired employees Strengthening Regional Cooperation and children of employees, extensively organized “heart-warming, care-showing” activities so as to effectively help needy worker overcome difficulties. During We deeply promoted cooperation with local governments and enterprises, optimized industrial and regional distribution, and actively boosted local economic the New Year’s Eve and the Spring Festival of 2011, our leaders went down to development and employment. In 2011, we signed cooperation agreements on regional construction and energy strategy with the local governments in Guangxi, the grassroots, visited and expressed their regards to needy employees, and Qinghai, Yunnan and other places. We also intensified our efforts in the development of clean and renewable energy, and jointly promoted local economic development. provided consolation money of 270,000 Yuan. We conducted an employee satisfaction survey, and increased investment in rectifying inferior aspects, which Promoting Power Industry Development increased the Happiness Index of employees, and kept the staff turnover less We continuously monitored advanced technologies in the international energy industry, and made academic exchanges and cooperation with colleges and universities. than 1‰. We also increased investment in the research and development of power generation technology with non-fossil energy and coal-based clean energy, optimized resource We provide employees with places for recreation and sports, and encourage allocation in scientific and technological innovation, pushed scientific and technological achievements into the market, and effectively played the main role of key statethem to engage in various mass cultural and sports associations. We regularly owned enterprises in developing national innovation systems. organized sports competitions, knowledge lectures, photography training, art In 2011, we put our self-developed fluidized bed technology into commercial use in Southeast Asia, put CO2 capture technology on the EU market, declared the shows, essay competitions and other cultural and sports activities to enrich their establishment of “National Coal Cleaning and Low-Carbon Power Generation Technology Research and Development Center” and “National Research and Development cultural lives. Center for Highly-efficient Use of Water Energy and Dam Safety Technology” and successfully achieved approval. We applied for one item from the National Science and Technology Support Program, National 863 Programs and 973 Programs respectively, and undertook one major project of the National Energy Bureau. 65 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 66 Promoting Industrial Chain Building Harmonious Development Mutual Benefit and Mutual Benefit and We adhered to operational standards, abided by contracts, made payments and settlements in a timely manner, and achieved a 100% contract fulfillment rate. We also strictly examined qualifications in materials procurement and project construction, conformed to bidding procedures, advocated fair competition, and resoPerformance Harmonious Development Harmonious Development lutely resisted all types of commercial bribery. Additionally, we strengthened our communications and cooperation with coal suppliers, equipment manufacturers, and financial institutions to expand cooperation fields, jointly cope with market risks and achieve multilateral benefits. In 2011, the company signed cooperation agreements with the China National Petroleum Corporation, Aluminum Corporation of China, China National Coal Group Co., Ltd, and other units to strengthen Employee Training in 2011 cooperation in shale gas exploration, new energy, coal chemistry and other industries. Honors No Building Harmonious CommuBusiness Managers National Labor Certificate 1 nity Relations Professional Technicians National Labor Medal 7 Guarantee the Power Supply Skilled Workers National Worker Pioneer 10 We actively fought against a severe drought, low temperatures of the Others freezing, typhoons and other extreme weather and natural disasters, National Woman Pacesetter 6 effectively did a good job in preventing flooding, and meeting peak demands for electricity in summer and during the National Day holiday. National Woman Pacesetter Post 1 We employed all available means to guarantee a safe and steady supply of thermal coal and went all out to supply power and heat. During each Training Ratios in 2011 National Woman Pacesetter Post 1 challenge, we suffered no shortage of coal, nor did we shut down any National Award for Outstanding Ideological power plants. We ensured power and heat supplies to the people, and and Political Achievements in the Power 14 remained a reliable energy supplier to local power grids. Industry Fighting blizzards to ensure power supply Resilience Training National Award for Innovative Achievements Technical Level Training of Corporate Management in the Power 21 Participating in Public Welfare Qualification Training Industry Continuing Training The Company formulated Regulations on Exterior Donation to standardize the donating 2010 Award for a Moving Electric Power Other Training 1 behaviors, actively involved great efforts in disaster relief, showed care to vulnerable Team groups, made donations, and worked on poverty alleviation and aid projects in The fourteenth Beijing International HighXinjiang, Tibet and Qinghai. We also encouraged young volunteers to participate in 1 tech Expo “Best of Show Award” community development ,public environmental welfare and student aid projects to fully demonstrate the good corporate image in giving back to society and helping to build a National Civilized Unit 12 harmonious society. In 2011, the Company actively carried out the volunteer action of Total Donations (RMB 10 thousand Yuan) “Caring about the Children of Peasant Workers,” and all subsidiary companies did what 2011 Valuable Management Model 1 was within their means to provide volunteer services to the children of peasant workers GoldenBee Outstanding CSR Report • by means of “feeling cities” and loving donations, accompanied by family, school 1 Leading Enterprise counselors, self-care educators and others. 6,910 volunteers participated in the actions, GoldenBee Outstanding CSR Report • providing services to 3,905 children, and pairing off with 1,738 persons. 1 Huaneng Youth Education Aid Action Evergreen Award 2011 Advanced Unit in Talent Work among China’s 1 Promoting Community Development Top 500 Energy Groups We were committed to supporting the economic development, infrastructure, and environmental protection of the communities where power plants operate, while Top 10 Model Enterprise in 30-year Practice 1 also creating employment opportunities. We participated in the construction of new rural and pastoral communities, and made greater efforts in poverty alleviation with of Corporate Culture technical and cultural guidance. In addition, we continued to promote activities like the “100-1000-10000 Campaign,” the “Enriching and Benefiting Farmers” project, “StuModel Practice Report 1 dent Aid Project,” ”Green Protection Project,” and others, as part of our overall efforts to “Construct power stations, stimulate the local economy, protect the local environment, and promote complete harmony.” Award for National Excellent Organization of 1 Fitness Campaign Outstanding Unit in the All People’s Stay 1 Fitness Campaign 67 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 68 Case Study Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. Creating win-win outcomes and harmony between the company and local places The Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. is an important backbone enterprise in reserving cascade hydropower stations at the same time.” Yunnan province in the project of transmitting power from the western areas to The company consistently persisted in the integration of economic, social east China and both from Yunnan to other provinces. In 2011, the company had and environmental responsibilities, and adhered to the responsibility concept operational installed capacity of 8,850 MW, achieved power output of 33.6 billion celebrating the completion of the drinking water projects in Xiteng Village of In addition, the company also improved the rural health service system, building of “multi-cooperation, mutual benefit, win-win outcomes, and harmonious kWh, exceeded 94.2 billion Yuan in total assets, and had a processed capacity of Yun County, the villagers’ representatives said: “We are living in Tengxi village and rural clinics, supporting rural doctors in training, and subsidizing farmers to enjoy development,” while actively carrying out the “100-1000-10000 project,” and generating units under construction and in preparation over 17,000 MW, which have been short of water for decades; nowadays we can finally drink safe and state-funded new-type rural cooperative medical care, so as to improve the rural taking the construction of hydropower stations as the focus to radiate through forms good development momentum featuring “operating, constructing and clean water. This is a great happy event. We are grateful to Huaneng for bringing health service. the surrounding area and serve the construction of the socialist new rural clean water for us.” Now on the both sides of Lancang River, running water is Since carrying out the 100-1000-10000 project, the Lancang River Company has community. flowing into thousands of households, which means that twisting the tap brings invested a total of more than 70 million Yuan, building 60 Hope Primary Schools, N The Lancang Hydropower Company concerned itself with clean water in the house and smiles on the faces of the villagers. 37 clinics, 30 cultural rooms, and 16 reading rooms, financing 118 villages to education around the reservoir area, building schools, aiding Deqin improve their appearances, supporting 1,410 rural teachers to participate students in pairs, and financing rural teachers in professional Gushui The Lancang River Company persisted in poverty alleviation by culture, science in professional training, and helping 1,150 junior and senior middle school Wunonglong trainings. Within just 90 days, the Manwan Power Plant had replaced Shangri-la and technology, so it accelerated the construction of public cultural facilities like students to go to vocational technology schools, pairing with over 2,500 needy Lidi Weixi the broken down building of Wuli Hope Primary School with a cultural stations and cultural recreation rooms in the towns, carried out labor students to help them complete their education, conducting 9,515 trainings Tuoba Gucheng Region Zhaotong brand new teaching building, and greatly improved the learning Huangdeng transfer education training, and strived to develop a new type of farmer with for transferring the rural labor force, and subsidizing 170,022 farmers to enjoy Yongsheng and living conditions for teachers and students. Yang Rulong, Head Lanping culture, technology and business minds. In the meantime, it guided the masses state-funded new-type rural cooperative medical care. All of these effectively of Manwan Town, said with deep feeling, “This is Manwan’s school Dahuaqiao to shift the focus of development to the strong industries that accord with the improved local economic and social development, and built the bank of the Yunlong with the best teaching facilities we have ever known. Huaneng Yangbi actual local situation, so as to help farmers increase their income. Lancang River into a harmonious social and economic development belt. :Yongping Yongping Heqing did practical and good things for the masses around the Manwan reservoir areas, and helped thousands of people in the town Nu Weishan Dali Qujing Longyang Region Miaowei realize what they always dreamed of.” At present, on the bank of baoshan Kunming Nanjian the Lancang River mushroom a number of Huaneng Hope Primary Xiaowan Changning Gongguoqiao RiverFengqing Manwan Schools, where children are happy with learning in the bright and Ruili Fengqing Lake Dian Shilin Yunxian spacious classrooms. Jingdong Dachaoshan Lincang The Lancang River Company took the solution to the Nanpan River Lan problem of drinking water as an important task in support Cang Kaiyuan of the construction of a new rural community. On the basis Cuiyun Region River of a full investigation, the company invited professionals Ximeng Lancang Jinghong Hekou to look for water sources, monitor water quality, and build drinking water projects. Over the past five years, the Nuozhadu Jinghong Menghai Company has solved the problems of drinking water for Mengsong Mengla Ganlanba 48,157 persons and 20,750 large animals. At the ceremony Distribution Map of Yunan Action Plan in the 100-1000-10000 Projects of Lancang River 69 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 70 Prospect in 2012 Objectives Measures ⊙ To avoid breach of safety production regulations so as to get better basis of safety production; ⊙ To further strengthen safety management in coal mining enterprises and fully carry out the construction of safe production and management ◎ To avoid serious or above accidents; Safe development systems in power plants; ◎ To avoid incidents that may negatively impact the image of our company. ⊙ To standardize safe production, strengthen standard construction of safety management, equipment and facilities, production technology, and the workplace. ⊙ To promote the readjustment of the power structure, and give priority to clean energy projects with good returns; ◎ To increase coal production capacity by 15.2 million tons/year; Optimal development ⊙ To strengthen industrial coordination, focus on consolidating the basic position of the coal industry, making various better and stronger financing platforms, ◎ To increase the installed capacity of clean energy by 4,457.3 MW. optimizing the layout of ports, wharfs, coal transport bases, and stepping up scientific industrialization. ◎ To realize 317.21 g/kWh; ⊙ To steadily promote the creation of an excellent energy-saving and environmentally-friendly enterprise; ◎ To build 10 excellent energe-saving,environmently-friendly coal-fired power plants of coal consumption for ⊙ To further strengthen operational adjustment and energy-saving technological modifications, and intensify our efforts in tackling the problems of power supply; energy-saving technology; Green development ◎ To achieve the annual goals set out in the Special Plan on Energy Conservation and Environmental ⊙ To make overall plans to press ahead with retrofitting desulphurization and denitration of generating units in order to service them in an orderly way; Protection (2011-2015) and Overall Planning on Reduction and Control of SO2 and NOx during the 12th ⊙ To strengthen carbon assets management, track international mechanisms around carbon emissions reduction, and deeply research the CDM project Five-Year Plan. development model. ⊙ To strengthen power marketing, and obtain the maximum capacity benefit; ⊙ To focus on closed-loop fuel management, actively explore the sources of coal, and enhance the capabilities of ensuring coal supplies, controlling the ◎ To achieve 660 billion kWh of power generation; price of coal, and improving coal quality; Healthy development ◎ To achieve coal production of 66.7 million tons; ◎To achieve sales revenue of 304 billion Yuan; ⊙ To make greater efforts in financing innovation, perfecting the emergency fund security system, and enhancing our capability in preventing ◎ To get approval for power projects of 10 GW, and coal projects of 11 million tons per year. capital risks; ⊙ To strive to enhance our capabilities in operating, managing and controlling enterprises, and fully implement guidance on strengthening EVA management and cost management. ⊙ To improve the operations and management of overseas assets; ◎ To further expand and consolidate our overseas assets management platform; International development ⊙ To intensify our efforts in the development of overseas hydropower; ◎ To improve overseas assets profitability. ⊙ To do well in integration and reorganization of overseas assets. ⊙ To improve the quality of our staff, striving to build staff teams with “four first-class” elements, and deeply promoting transparent factory affairs ◎ To achieve common growth with our employees; and democratic management; Harmonious development ◎ To achieve mutual benefit and win-win outcomes with our clients and partners; ⊙ To strengthen cooperation with regional and various partners, actively extend cooperation in the field and improve cooperation quality; ◎ To achieve harmonious progress with our society. ⊙ To steadily do well in poverty alleviation and aid in Xinjiang, Tibet and Qinghai, and actively participate in public welfare. 71 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 72 Indicator Index 1：GRI Index(G3.1) Note: The level of disclosure ( Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report Not Available ) Disclosure in the Degree of GRI Indicators 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives(including retirement report Disclosure arrangement), and the organization’s performance(including social and environmental) 1 Strategy and Analysis 4.6 Procedures for avoiding conflicts of interests within the highest governance body P10 1.1 Statement from the top decision-maker of the organization on the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy P1-2 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.7 P16 and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities P13-14 head page Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 /P20/P30/P38/P46/ environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 2 Organization Profile P56/P64 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of 2.1 Organization name P10 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or P12/P15-16 4.9 compliance with internationally agreed standards, code of conduct and principles 2.2 Major brands, products and/or services P10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 P10/P46 environmental, and social performance 2.3 Operational structure of the organization (including main departments, the operating company, subsidiaries and joint ventures) P10-11 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization P10/P15 2.4 Location of Headquarters back flap back flap Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 Inside front cover organization subscribes or endorses The number of countries where the organization operates, names of countries where organization has main businesses,names of countries 2.5 P10/P59-60 which are particularly relevant to the sustainable development described in report 4.13 Memberships in associations(such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations P18 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. P4 2.7 Markets served by the organization (including regional markets, trades served, types of beneficiaries) P10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. P4 2.8 Scales of the organization inside front cover P10 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group P4 2.9 Significant changes in size, structure or ownership of the organization during the reporting period P10 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised by stakeholders during their engagement, and how the organization has P4 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period P24/P49/P68 5 Economic Performance 3 Report Parameters Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, EC1 P17/P52/P68 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 3.1 Reporting period(financial year or solar year) Inside front cover EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change P40 3.2 Date of the previous report(if any) Inside front cover EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations P64-66 3.3 Reporting cycle(such as annual, biennial) Inside front cover EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 3.4 Contact point for inquiring report and report content back flap EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. P64-66 3.5 Process of defining report content Inside front cover EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation P22 3.6 Boundary of the report(such as the state, the department, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, and suppliers) Inside front cover EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation P66 3.7 Limits to the cope or boundary of the report Inside front cover Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro EC8 P67/P69-70 bono engagement Basis for the report on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.8 Inside front cover EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts P66-68 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 6 Environment Inside front cover estim ations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report EN1 Materials used by weight or volume P42 3.10 Explanation of the effect of and reas , base year/year period changes, business nature, design procedure) Inside front cover EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 3.11 Significant changes from the previous report in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report Inside front cover EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source P42 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosure in the report P73-79 The organization listed in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report provides policy and current practice EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source P42 3.13 for seeking external assurance. If not listed, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided, and also P80 explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements P39-P42 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or recyclable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of EN6 P39-P42 these initiatives 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. P10 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect consumption and reductions achieved P39-P42 4.2 Indicate whether Chairman of the Board is also an executive officer EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P43-44 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water P43-44 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanism for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction for the highest governance body P10 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused P43-44 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside EN11 P41 protected areas 73 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 74 EN12 Description of significant activities, products and service on biodiversity in these areas. P41 8 Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights EN13 Habitats protected or restored P41 HR1 concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity P41 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk P41 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, HR3 P65 including the percentage of employees trained. EN16 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by weight P42 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. No such incidents EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions by weight P42 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 No suchcompliance EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and reductions achieved P40/P42/P43-44 may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight HR6 to the effective abolition of child labor. EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight P40/P42/P43-44 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures HR7 P66-67 to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination P43-44 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are HR8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P40/P43-44 relevant to operations. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills P26 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. No suchcompliance Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. EN24 Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the EN25 P41 reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff 9 Society EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation P39-41 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. P41 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption P15 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulation No such incidents SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures P15/P67 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and EN29 transporting members of the workforce SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption P15/P67 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type P41 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying P4/P66-67 No 7 Labor practices and decent work SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions, by country such contributions No LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender P64 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices, and their outcomes such legal actions No LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. P64-66 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. such compliance LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations P64-66 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. P23-24/P37-44 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements P64 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. P66-68 LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements P64-66 10 Product Responsibility Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of LA6 PR1 on occupational health and safety programs significant products and services categories subject to such procedures LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region and by gender. P26/P65-66 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products PR2 and services, by type of outcomes Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families or LA8 P67-68/P69-70 community members regarding serious diseases Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and service subject PR3 to such information requirements LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions P65 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information, PR4 No such incidents and labeling, by type of outcomes LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. P65 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. P66-68 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist LA11 P65 them with managing career endings Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, PR6 and sponsorship. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. P65 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, LA13 P64 PR7 No such incidents minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. P64 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No such incidents LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services No such incidents 75 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 76 Indicator Index 2: Social Responsibility Indicator System for Power Generation Industry Indicator Numbers and Description Report Section(s) Indicator Numbers and Description Report Section(s) Indicator Numbers and Description Report Section(s) Indicator Numbers and Description Report Section(s) S2.13 Ratio between salary of male employee and of female employee P64 E1.5 Green procurement Not disclosed S2.14 Proportion of female managers to total manpower P64 E1.6 Environmental initiatives P41/P67 Part I: Foreword (P series) G6.1 Research on CSR P15-16 G6.2 Cooperation with education and researching agencies on social S2.15 Rate or Number of disabled employees Not disclosed E1.7 Total investment in environmental protection Not disclosed (P1) Report specifications P66 responsibility S2.16 Occupational health management policyS2.17 Employee E1.8 Environmental impact assessment for investment projects P41 P1.1 Reporting period Inside front cover G6.3 Participation in development of standards on social responsibility P65 P15-16 training management system E1.9 Research and development and application of environmentat home and abroad P40/P43-44 P1.2 Scope of reporting organization Inside front cover S2.17 Employee training management system P65 friendly technology and equipment Part III: Performances of Market (M Series) E1.10 Biodiversity conservation P41 P1.3 Reporting cycle Inside front cover (M1) Responsibility to shareholders S2.18 Number of occupational disease P65 ELE1.11 Protection of natural habitat, wetlands, forests, wildlife P1.4 Reported data description Inside front cover M1.1 Investor relations management system Not disclosed S2.19 Systems or measures for employee counseling P65 P41 corridors and agricultural land in engineering construction P1.5 Reference standards Inside front cover M1.2 Growth potential P52 S2.20 Coverage of medical examination and health file P65 E1.12 Information on incompliance with environmental laws, No such incidents regulations and policies P1.6 Guarantee on report reliability Inside front cover M1.3 Profitability P52 S2.21 System of employee training P65 P1.7 The contact person for inquiries and questions about the report (E2)Energy and resources conservation P76 M1.4 Security P46-52 S2.22 Degree of employee training P65 and its content, and his or her contact details E2.1 Policy and measures for energy conservation P40/P43-44 P1.8 How to obtain the report and extended reading Inside front cover M1.5 Negative information on responsibility to shareholders No such incidents S2.23 Career path P65 E2.2 Energy consumption of unit power generation and amount of P42 (P2) From the CEO energy conservation (M2)Responsibility to customers S2.24 Democratic management and transparent factory affairs P64 P2.1 Statement of the relation between the organization and social E2.3 Policy, measures or technology of water conservation P40 P1-2 M2.1 Systems and measures supporting innovation of Technology P33 S2.25 Channels through which employee suggestions are communi responsibility P64 E2.4 Energy consumption of unit power generation and amount of cated to the top management P42 P2.2 Summary of social responsibility performance and areas for im M2.2 Investment in research and development P33 energy conservation Not disclosed provement in the reporting year E2.5 Policy, technology and measures supporting circular economy P41/P43-44 M2.3 Number of R&D personnel and their proportion to the total S2.26 Expenditure in aiding needy employees P65 (P3)Responsibility Model P33 manpower E2.6 Rate or amount of utilizing energy and resources P42 P3.1 CSR Model Inside front cover M2.4 Number of patents P34 S2.27 Provision of special protection for special group such as preg P64 nant women, lactating women. ELE2.7 Coal consumption for power supply P42 (P4) Company profile M2.5 New awards for significant innovation P34 S2.28 Assurance in balance between work and life P65 ELE2.8 General auxiliary power rate P42 P4.1Company name, form of ownership and location of headquarters P10 M2.6 Negative information on responsibility to customers No such incidents S2.29 Employee satisfaction P65 ELE2.9 Water consumption per unit power generation (ton, 100 GW) No such incidents P4.2 Main Products and services of the organization P10 (M3)Responsibility to partners ELE2.10 Policy, rules and measures supporting development of green S2.30 Employee turnover rate P65 P30-31 P4.3 Geographic coverage and structure of business operations P10-11 M3.1 Evaluation and investigation on social responsibilities of supply power P22 chain S2.31 Negative information on responsibility to employees P65 ELE2.11 The proportion of capacity and annual generation of green P4.4 Size of business P10 M3.2 Strategic sharing mechanism and system P66-67 power, such as wind power, photo voltaic generation, P34 (S3) Safety production geothermal power, biomass power, small hydro etc. P4.5 Corporate governance structure P10 M3.3 Ethical sourcing system and (or) policy P4/P22 S3.1 Safety production management system P20 ELE2.12 Wastewater recycling rules and measures P40 P4.6 Structure of board of directors not applicable M3.4 Proportion of ethical sourcing Not disclosed S3.2 Emergency management system P21 ELE2.13 Exhaust gas recycling rules and measures P43-44 (P5) Key Performance indicator matrix M3.5 Concept of integrity and supporting policy P4/P67 S3.3 Safety education and training P25 ELE2.14 Rules and measures for and performances of comprehensive P41 P5.1 Social responsibility performance comparison schedule Not disclosed M3.6 Concept of fair competition and supporting policy P4/P67 utilization of fly ash S3.4 Performances of safety training P25 ELE2.15 Rules and measures for and performances of comprehensive P5.2 Key performance data sheet P17 M3.7 Training on integrity and fair competition Not disclosed P41 utilization of sweet gypsum S3.5 Investment in safety production P23 P5.3 List of recognitions received during the reporting period P24/P49/P68 ELE2.16 Rules and measures for and performances of recovery of re M3.8 Credit ratings Not disclosed P40 S3.6 Number of accident-caused casualties P26 sidual heat and energy Part II: Responsibility management (G series) M3.9 Contract fulfillment rate P67 E2.17 Green workplace policy or measures P40 ELS3.7 Equipment management policy and measures P24 (G1) Responsibility Strategy M3.10 Negative information on responsibility to partners No such incidents E2.18 Green workplace performance P40 ELS3.8 Plant equivalent availability coefficient P26 head page Part IV Social Performance (S series) G1.1 CSR Concepts (E3) Pollution control and emission reduction /P20/30/38/46/56/64 ELS3.9 Number of general equipment failures P26 (S1) Responsibility to government E3.1 Systems or measures for waste gas emission reduction P40/P41 P19-25/P29-34/P37-41 ELS3.10 Number of significant equipment breakdowns P26 G1.2 Core issues on social responsibility S1.1 Legal and regulatory compliance system P4/P15 ELE3.2 Penetration rate of desulphurization equipment for thermal P40/P43-44 P45-51/P55-59/P63-67 ELS3.11 Number of unplanned equipment outage P26 power plant S1.2 Legal and regulatory compliance measures P15 ELE3.3 Penetration rate of denitration equipment for thermal power G1.3 Planning on CSR Not disclosed ELS3.12 Negative information on safety production P26 P40/P43-44 plant S1.3 Legal and regulatory compliance training P47 ELE3.4 Nox emissions and emission reduction per unit power genera (G2)Responsibility management (S4)Community Responsibility Not disclosed tion (g/kWh) S1.4 Negative information on Legal and regulatory compliance No such incidents ELE3.5 SO2 emissions and emission reduction per unit power genera G2.1 Social responsibility leadership P16 S4.1 Impact of business operations on local communities P41 Pv S1.5 Response to national policy P4/P66-67 tion (g/kWh) G2.2 Social responsibility management organization system P16 S4.2 Education and study supporting community members ELE3.6 Fume and dust emissions and emission reduction per unit P67/P69-70 Not disclosed S1.6 Total tax payments P17/P52 (esp. disadvantaged group) power generation (g/kWh) G2.3 Social responsibility management system P16 S4.3 Policy of recruiting local employees P66 E3.7 Systems or measures for wastewater effluent reduction P40 S1.7 Information on tax evasion No such incidents G2.4 Social responsibility training P16 E3.8 Wastewater effluent and reduction per unit power S1.8 Policy or measures ensuring employment and (or ) promoting S4.4 Proportion of local employees to total manpower Not disclosed P40 (G3)Responsibility Blend P64-65/P70 generation (g/kWh) employment S4.5 Policy of local procurement P66 E3.9 Systems or measures for solid waste discharge reduction P41/P43-44 G3.1 Promoting the transformation of special work P15-16 S1.9 Number of jobs created during reporting period P64 S4.6 Proportion of local procurement Not disclosed E3.10 Solid waste discharge and reduction per unit power (S2)Responsibility to employees P41/P43-44 G3.2 Encourage subsidiaries to implement social responsibility P15-16 generation (g/kWh) S4.7 Give-back policy or system P67 G3.3 Encouraging partners to implement social responsibility P16/P22 S2.1 Compliance with national labor laws and regulations P64 E3.11 Industrial noise control P44/P65 S4.8 Corporate charitable fund or foundation Not disclosed E3.12 Actively responding to climate change P40/P43-44 (G4)Responsibility performance S2.2 Coverage of labor contract/collective contract P64 S4.9 Amount of donations P17/P68 E3.13 Policies or measures for greenhouse gas emission reduction P40/P43-44 G4.1 Indicator system on corporate social responsibility Not disclosed S2.3 Coverage of social insurance P64 G4.2 Performance evaluation on corporate social responsibility S4.10 Policy and measures supporting employee volunteerism P67 E3.14 Greenhouse gas emission reduction P40/P42/P43-44 Not disclosed S2.4 Proportion of unionized employees to total manpower P64 according to indicator system S4.11 Employee volunteerism data P67 S2.5 No forced labor P64-65 E3.15 CO2 emissions from business trips Not disclosed G4.3 Best CSR selection P68 S4.12 Overseas charitable donations P55 E3.16 Factory premises and surrounding environment management P41 S2.6 Protection in personal data and privacy of employees P64-65 (G5)Communication on social responsibility S4.13 Negative information on community responsibility Not disclosed S2.7 Systems and measures supporting decent labor P64-65 Part VI: Concluding remarks (A series) G5.1 Stakeholders’ expectations and the organization’s reactions P4 PART V: Environmental performance (E series) S2.8 Mechanism for social dialogue and collective bargaining P64-65 (A1)Outlook: Corporate social responsibility activity planning P71-72 G5.2 Internal social responsibility communication mechanism P4/P16 S2.9 Protection in the rights and interests of part-time employees, (E1)Environmental Management G5.3 Internal social responsibility communication and exchange in P22 (A2)Expert Evaluation: Evaluation of the report by CSR experts or P64 temporary workers and subcontractors P80 which top management are involved E1.1 Environmental management system P38-39 industry experts, stakeholders or professional organizations. G5.4 External social responsibility communication mechanism P16 S2.10 Provision of competitive pay to employees P64-65 E1.2 Emergency mechanism for environmental accidents P38-39 G5.5 External social responsibility communication and exchange in (A3)Index: Reference to the indicators specified in this guide. P73-79 P66-67 S2.11 Days of per capita paid leave each year P64 E1.3 Environmental awareness training system P38-39 which top management are involved (G6) Research on social responsibility (A4)Reader feedback: Reader feedback questionnaire and channel P82/back flap S2.12 Equal employment opportunity system P64 E1.4 Performances of environmental awareness training P38 77 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 78 Indicator Index 3 : Rating the Report Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact on China Huaneng Group Sustainability Report 2011 The United Nations Global Compact requires companies within their influence area to comply with, support and carry out a set of ten universally accepted Upon the request of China Huaneng Group, CSR Research Center of Economics Division of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences invited experts from the Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating to form China principles in the aspects of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. These principles are from Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Huaneng Group Sustainability Report 2011 Rating Team. The rating team rated the China Huaneng Sustainability Report 2011 (“report”) as follows. Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by International Labor Organization, and Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Huaneng, as the first Chinese power industry joined the United Naitons Global Compact in November 2007, has been actively carrying out the ten principles of the 1. Rating Criteria Global Compact by promoting safe, optimal, green, healthy, international and harmonious development. Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 2.0) published jointly by the aforesaid Center, China Enterprise Confederation, China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association, China Light Industry Federation, the Sino-German Corporate Social Responsibility Project, China WTO Tribune and China Committee of Corporate Citizenship. 2. Rating Results Completeness（★★★★★） The Report discloses information on corporate responsibility practices in terms of safety performance, economic performance, environment and social performance. With 62.7% of Key Performance indicators for electric utilities industry being disclosed, the report has excellent completeness. Ten Principles Location in the Report Implementation Materiality（★★★★☆） The Report discloses nearly all the material issues for the electric utility industry. Adding corporate responsibility practice in international market in response to the public concern over Chinese companies going overseas, the Abide by laws and regulations at home and abroad, support report has good materiality. Respect and support the protection of internationally P64-66 international conventions on human rights approved by the Balance（★★★★☆） Human Right proclaimed human rights State, safeguard and respect human rights, and guarantee This report discloses negative information on work-related injuries and causalities, equipment breakout, unexpected suspension etc. The company reflects on the cause of incidents. Therefore bears considerable balance. P64-66 employees’ legal rights and interests. Not complicit in human rights abuses Comparability（★★★★★） This Report discloses data on 41 key performance indicators of five consecutive years. The indicator “coal consumption for power supply” is compared with national average level. The report has excellent comparability. Readability（★★★★★） Uphold the freedom of association and the effective P64 Adhere to fair and just employment policy, strictly follow This report illustrates the performance using user friendly charts, tables and pictures. The report has a clear structure, concise and fluency language. Beautiful and simple design in three colors makes this report very readable. recognition of the right to collective bargaining national laws and regulations on labor relationship Creativity（★★★★☆） management and labor contracts so as to strengthen the Labor This report illustrates the corporate sustainability model. Report framework and contents correspond to the sustainability model. Each chapter includes corporate perception, goals, measures, performance and case studies. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor P64 management of employees’labor contracts. Establish workers’ Therefore bears considerable creativity. congress system and the system of making the company’s Overall rating（★★★★★） Effective abolition of child labor P64 affairs public, so as to ensure 100% employee membership Through evaluation and deliberations, the rating team agreed to rate China Huaneng Sustainability Report 2011 as extraordinary by giving a five-star rating to it. in trade unions at all levels, and strengthen democratic Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment participation of employees. 3. Suggested improvements P64 1.Disclose and elaborate on negative incidents analysis. Disclose corporate countermeasures and precautions where relevant. and occupation 2.Select more diverse pictures to better illustrate the stories and cases. Take a precautionary approach to environmental P37-41/P43-44 challenges 4. Rating team Team leader: Peng Huagang, Vice president of executive council of the Center and director general of Research Bureau, SASAC. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Accelerate the transformation of the development mode, Team members: Hu Xiaozheng, Director of Electric Power Reliability Management Center, State Electricity Regulatory Commission Environment P40-41/P43-44 responsibility optimize the industrial structure, speed up eliminating Yin Gefei, Vice Director of WTO Tribune backward production capacity, develop clean energy, and Zhong Hongwu, director of CSR Research Center, Economics Division, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Encourage the development and promotion of P40-41/P43-44 vigorously develop wind energy, hydropower and nuclear Zhang En, Deputy executive director of CSR Research Center, Economics Division, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences environmental-friendly technologies power, and actively cope with global climate change. By means of scientific and technological innovation, we actively develop clean power generation technology, and create energy-saving, environmental-friendly coal-fired power Chen Jiagui Peng Huagang plants to reduce the impact on the environment. Chairman of rating expert panel Head of the rating team Standing committee member of NPC Vice president of executive council of the Center Anti-corruption Work against corruption in all its forms, including P15/P67 Strengthen the construction of anticorruption system, carry forward the probity culture,strictly implement the Acting chairman of Presidium of Divisions, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Director general of Research Bureau of SASAC extortion and bribery responsibility system of improving the Party’s work style and building clean governance, thoroughly carry out special activities on combating commercial bribery, and standardization of our operations and transactions. 79 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 80 Terminology Ultra Supercritical Power GeneraCarbon Capture, Utilization and tion Technology Storage (CCUS) Ultra supercritical power generation technology improves thermal efficiency in a CCUS technology is a new development trend of carbon capture and storage Feedback Questionnaire boiler and reduces electricity and coal costs by increasing boiler steam pressure (CCS) technology, which purifies carbon dioxide emitted in the production proc(25-31 MPa) and temperature (580℃-610℃). Currently, this is the world's most ess, and puts it into new production processes. Thus, CO2 can be recycled in proadvanced environmentally-friendly technology for power generation. duction rather than simply being stored. Compared with CCS technology, CCUS technology may use CO2 as a resource to produce economic benefits, so it is a Your Personal Information Dear Readers, more realistic operational technology. High Temperature Gas-cooled This report is a Sustainability Report (2011) issued to the public by China Huaneng Group. We Name: Reactor (HTGR) Safety Evaluation are looking forward to your advice and suggestions so that we can improve our reporting in Organization: the future. We would be grateful if you would answer the following questions and send this The High Temperature Gas-cooled Reactor is a kind of nuclear reactor that takes questionnaire back to us in one of the following ways. Position: It refers to a method to comprehensively apply safety system engineering, in helium gas as a cooling agent, with a high exit temperature. The high temperawhich we measure and predict the safety of the system, identify the dangers and Fax: +86-10-63228866 Tel: ture gas-cooled reactor uses coated particle fuel and graphite as a moderator. insecure elements, and make qualitative and quantitative analysis of them so as Mail to: No. 4, Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Beijing (100031) Fax: The exit temperature of the reactor center is from 850°C to 1,000°C, and even to confirm the possible causes of danger and their severity, make correct evaluhigher. The fuel is usually highly-concentrated uranium dioxide, and sometimes E-mail E-mail: ations about the safety of the system, and correspondingly provide concrete is low-concentration uranium dioxide. The high temperature gas-cooled reactor countermeasures to eliminate unsafe elements and dangers. Through implehas such advantages as high thermal efficiency (40-41%), high burn-up fraction menting these countermeasures in a comprehensive, systematic, purposeful and (up to 20 MW day/ton uranium, and high conversion ratio (0.7-0.8). planned way, we may standardize and normalize safety management, improve Readers Feedback Questionnaire on this Sustainability Report the standards of safe production, and prevent the occurrence of accidents in adGreenGen vance. Single Choice (Please mark your choice with “√”) Yes Average No GreenGen refers to the research, development, demonstration and promotion of a coal-based energy system that focuses on hydrogen production through Three Synchronizations” in Environ1. Do you think this report reflects Huaneng’s significant impacts on safety, environment, economy and society? gasification, combined cycle power generation with hydrogen turbines, and fuel mental Protection cell-based power generation, while capturing and storing CO2 , so as to raise the 2. Do you think this report makes an accurate and complete analysis of the relations between Huaneng and its stakeholders? efficiency of coal-fried power generation and achieve near-zero emissions of polArticle 26 of the Environmental Protection Law in China stipulates that “installalutants and CO2 . tions for the prevention and control of pollution at a construction project must 3. Do you think the information disclosed in this report is clear, accurate and complete? be designed, built and commissioned together with the principal part of the project. No permission shall be given for a construction project to be commisThe Clean Development Mechanism sioned or used until its installation for the prevention and control of pollution are 4. Do you think this report is convenient for reading with respect to contents and design? (CDM) examined and considered to be up to the standard by the competent department of environmental protection administration that examined and approved The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is one of the three flexible mechathe environment impact statement.” This stipulation is known as the “Three Synnisms under the framework of the Kyoto Protocol. It allows developed countries Open Question chronizations” system in the Environmental Protection Law in China. to cooperate with developing countries in projects that reduce emissions and generate Certified Emission Reductions (CERs), by providing financial and techni1. In your opinion, which part of this report is most satisfactory? cal support to help developed countries fulfill their greenhouse gas emission “100-1000-10000” Campaign commitments. The “100-1,000-10,000” Campaign refers to the project to construct 100 schools, 2. What information that you need to know is not included in this report? build 100 rural clinics, renovate 100 natural villages, and establish 100 rural culEconomic Value Added (EVA) ture rooms; to train 1,000 rural teachers, provide financial aid for 1,000 junior and 3. What’s your advice on our future sustainability reports? senior high school graduates to enter vocational technical schools, and 1,000 Economic Value Added is a comprehensive tool or index used to measure if an poverty-stricken students in middle schools and primary schools to complete enterprise creates value or if the enterprise realizes real profit of production and their education; to resolve the problem of drinking water of 10,000 people, to management. It is based on retained profits after tax by deducting the opportutrain 10,000 rural workers for employment transfer and support 100,000 people nity cost of equity and debt capital from its operating profit. Thank you for your support and cooperation. to participate in the national new rural cooperative medical service. CHINA HUANENG GROUP 81 Transforming and Upgrading·Striving to Create the Best Sustainability Report 2011 82
