Global Citizenship Customer Report 2008 G l o b a l C i t i z e n s h i p a cr o s s t h e E n t e r p r i s e Curb your Data The C asc ad e What’s Nex t: The Im per ative to Center’s Appetite Effec t Cit y 2.0 Protec t Privac y How to increase energy Responsible supply chain Envisioning opportunities How is your enterprise efficiency with HP solutions management—why HP’s in a low-carbon, resourceresponding? From policy and best practices approach matters to constrained world to technology, HP shares your business its strategy Ethics & Compliance | Hum an rights & l abor pr actices | Environmental sustainabilit y | Privacy | Social Investment HP’s annual Global C itizenship Report describes the company’s policies, programs, performance and goals across the wide spectrum of issues that make up global citizenship. We designed this version with our enterprise and public sector customers in mind. It features HP solutions and best practices to help organizations respond to urgent business challenges and opportunities. Q&A with Global citizenship Raising standards Using the cascade Mark Hurd at HP in the global IT effect to engage supply chain smaller suppliers 1 2 4 5 Environmentally Reduce, reclaim Best practices for IT City 2.0: sustainable IT and extend: asset recovery HP’s vision for a across the The energy-efficient sustainable future enterprise data center 6 8 9 10 The imperative to The power of Global citizenship Performance and protect privacy technology to in action goals summary transform teaching and learning 11 12 14 16 You can also download this document Share your thoughts at hp.com/go/customer. Our comprehensive web report Transparency and dialogue are cornerstones of global (hp.com/go/report) includes extensive details and citizenship at HP. If you have questions or would like to offer performance data on issues described in this report, as feedback on this year’s report, please complete our online well as others. survey at hp.com/go/report/feedback Q&A with Mark Hurd How does global citizenship contribute to HP’s success? Global citizenship helps our success because it’s important to our customers. Customers care about HP’s efforts in areas like climate change and human rights. They also value ways we can help them be more successful. That could mean an energy-efficient data center that cuts costs while reducing their carbon footprint, or a centrally managed printing environment that increases productivity and saves resources. Global citizenship also strengthens our own business in such areas as increasing efficiency, protecting privacy and maintaining trust with our stakeholders. What were HP’s notable achievements in global citizenship in 2008? We met or made substantial progress toward nearly all of our global citizenship goals. Here are few achievements that rose to the top: We cut our global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from operations 4% compared with 2007 in absolute terms and 13% normalized to revenue. We led our industry in reporting GHG emissions of our first-tier suppliers, representing more than 80% of our total product manufacturing spend. We audited 142 suppliers at 246 facilities for compliance with our code of conduct, and incidences of nonconformance, such as discrimination practices, have been substantially reduced. Additionally, we contributed over $46 million in cash and products to transform education through technology, train entrepreneurs and support communities. How does global citizenship help HP serve its customers? I’ll give you an example. We worked with UPS on an innovative device that prints labels directly on packages. By eliminating paper labels, it will create millions in operational cost savings and save over 1,200 tonnes of paper a year. Additionally, our asset recovery programs help enterprises responsibly process old IT equipment while capturing residual value. Beyond environmental initiatives, protecting privacy is another important aspect of global citizenship, and we’ve integrated advanced security technologies across our portfolio. These and other solutions support our strategic commitment to deliver business benefits while helping build a better world. What roles do HP employees play in supporting global citizenship at HP? Our employees are the energy behind our global citizenship initiatives; they contribute substantial time, energy and money to help communities. More broadly, they reflect the global scope of our business—our efforts to increase the diversity of our workforce will be a growing source of innovation and strength. With the addition of EDS, we’ve See HP’s full global citizenship Report at hp.com/go/report grown to more than 300,000 people, and I can’t think of an organization with deeper talent or ability to improve how people live and work. Mark Hurd Chairman, CEO and President For extended Q&A with Mark Hurd, see hp.com/go/report 1 Global citizeNship at HP Human rights & labor practices Environmental sustainability GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP Social investment Ethics & compliance Privacy Global citizenship covers a lot of ground at HP. It is more We focus our efforts on five areas: ethics and compliance, than a label, larger than a program, greater than any human rights and labor practices, environmental sustainability, single organization. Global citizenship is a corporate privacy and social investment. Together, these span our HP Global Citizenship Customer Report 2008 objective, embodied by our employees and rooted in regions and business units, influencing our priorities, values that have been core to HP since it was founded in operations, product development and brand differentiation. 1939. It encompasses our commitment to hold ourselves to Our work in these areas also yields insights and best practices higher standards of integrity, contribution and accountability that guide us in serving our customers. For example, we are as we balance and align our business goals with our impact applying what we learn to advance human rights in the IT on society and the environment. industry’s supply chain, designing products and services Few companies have the capabilities of HP to affect with smaller environmental footprints, safeguarding customer meaningful and lasting change. Our portfolio of products, and employee privacy, and transforming teaching and services and solutions is at the forefront of the IT industry. learning through innovative uses of technology. Our operations, infrastructure and influence extend worldGlobal citizenship will continue to be vital to HP’s success wide. Our 321,000 employees1 include some of the most and the success of our customers. As the world responds ingenious minds of our time. Their talent and expertise to unprecedented economic, environmental and social are unparalleled. And our stakeholder relationships are challenges, our commitment will help us guide our business, collaborative, helping us understand and respond to issues develop innovative solutions and create business value. and opportunities. 2 Global citizenship benefits HP, our customers and the communities where we live and work. Below are examples of impact from 2008. $1.84 Partnering to Supporting million research cloud Communities computing HP donated technology worth HP teamed with Intel Corporation Cultivating small $500,000 to advance pediatric and Yahoo! Inc. to launch Open business success services at the Lucile Packard Cirrus, an open source testbed Twenty-three nonprofits in Asia Children’s Hospital in California. jointly hosted by three universities Pacific received grants valued at The Hewlett-Packard Company in Germany, Singapore and the $80,000 each through the HP Foundation also provided a United States that will research Microenterprise Development $500,000 grant supporting cloud computing on an unprecProgram. Since 2007, the research to enhance patient care. edented scale. program has aided over 1,000 entrepreneurs with business training and HP equipment. Russia Mexico 66% Centralizing Developing Promoting health printing and imaging next-generation among women management IT workers workers Using HP Managed Print Services, HP is helping establish technology Working with two suppliers in Viacom will reduce its printed centers at 12 Russian universities Mexico, HP and Business for pages by 12.5% annually, which that are focused on building Social Responsibility were the is forecast to cut energy consumppractical IT-related business skills. first in the IT industry to launch tion of its printing fleet by over HERproject, a shared effort See HP’s full global citizenship Report at hp.com/go/report About 1,500 students have been 66% and save more than admitted to the program, with between multinationals, factories 10 million sheets of paper. internships at HP Labs available to and nongovernmental orgatop performers. nizations to improve women’s reproductive health awareness and access to services. China 125 Transforming tonnes Collaborating to data centers Empowering strengthen privacy workers in China SPAR-Austria, with 1,600 groceries Invited by the U.S. Department of in Austria, adopted HP solutions HP joined with SACOM and its Commerce and the Federal Trade to cut data center power use by training partner to educate over Commission, HP joined the Asia 10-15% (260,000 kWh), equal 1,800 workers at Chicony, an HP Pacific Economic Cooperative to 125 tonnes of CO2e emissions, supplier, about labor rights and Privacy sub-group to help develop freeing capacity that avoided the to establish an information hotline rules protecting the cross-border expense of a new facility. for workers. flow of data. 3 Raising standards in the global IT supply chain HP has one of the largest supply chains in the IT industry, comprising over 600 suppliers and 1,200 sites worldwide. Many of these sites are in developing countries, which have higher incidences of ethical, environmental and human rights violations. HP is responding by promoting higher standards, building capabilities and monitoring performance throughout its global supply chain. Going beyond compliance to building capabilities environmental responsibility will help us meet higher standards and be more competitive.” HP’s supply chain social and environmental responsibility (SER) program is based on a Providing greater transparency four-phase management system. Over the past In April 2008, HP became the first IT company six years, all of HP’s key product materials, to release a list of its top suppliers, representing components, and manufacturing and distribution more than 95% of the supply chain procureservices suppliers have completed the first two ment spending associated with its products. phases, which include HP’s initial evaluation and HP believes offering greater transparency will a supplier’s self-assessment. Suppliers enter the encourage other companies to do more to third phase, which includes on-site audits, based promote supply chain responsibility. on their risk for nonconformance. Through 2008, HP had conducted initial and follow-up audits of In another industry first, in September 2008 HP 142 suppliers at 246 of what it considers “highannounced the greenhouse gas emissions attribrisk” supplier sites, which takes into account uted to its first-tier suppliers representing more location, manufacturing processes, the type of than 80% of its product manufacturing spend. contractual relationship and past performance. Their aggregated emissions totaled approximately 3.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide In the fourth phase, HP engages with suppliers equivalent (CO2e).2 to build their capabilities. HP works with local nongovernmental agencies to identify areas for Yielding business benefits improvement, collaborate with supplier teams, foster dialogue and share best practices. While its Through its SER program, HP has improved emphasis is on assisting suppliers, HP has a zero working conditions and environmental perfortolerance policy on issues such as forced labor mance at supplier sites worldwide while lowering or working conditions that pose risk of serious the risk of disruptions to its supply chain from harm, and requires immediate corrective action. controversial or prohibited activities. HP Global Citizenship Customer Report 2008 HP’s work benefits customers as well. Purchasing Protecting human rights Most suppliers have embraced HP’s program. A growing number recognize that investments from a leader in responsible supply chain HP is a member of the Business can cut energy use and waste processing costs, management signals alignment of a company’s Leaders Initiative on Human while health and safety programs can reduce actions with its values and can protect its Rights (BLIHR), which works with accident rates and boost productivity and morale. reputation against charges of human rights or leading global companies across According to Vic Lee, administration director of environmental violations. Higher standards industries to protect human Chicony Electronics, an HP supplier in China, “The can also increase worker productivity and rights. Members of BLIHR set training provided through the HP program helps safety, which may contribute to lower prices examples for other companies by our workers understand their rights and obligafor customers. finding practical ways to apply tions. Though it has some impact on the hours of the United Nations’ Universal production, establishing a culture of social and Declaration of Human Rights within a business context. 4 “While helping companies strengthen their workers’ commitment to good health, HP is providing tools and training that are improving workplace standards and people’s lives.” —Phillip Liu, Plant Manager, Pegatron Technology, Mexico regarding HP’s support of the HERproject, a program promoting women’s reproductive health at supplier facilities in Mexico and China Reduction in major nonconformances by category How do your IT vendors measure up? (in latest audits compared to initial audits) Ask your vendors the following HP has conducted 480 audits of supplier sites since 2005, and tracked reductions in major questions to evaluate their nonconformances in all seven sections in the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct. supply chain responsibility: 75% 65% 45% 1 Does your company have a supplier code of conduct? ENVIRONMENT health & Safety labor 2 If your company has such a code, who is required to meet it? Using the cascade effect to engage smaller suppliers Focusing on large suppliers is not sufficient to raise social and environmental 3 How do you confirm that labor standards in the global supply chain. Secondand third-tier suppliers must also be rights, such as avoiding excessive included for greatest impact. Because of their size, these suppliers often lack the overtime, are protected in facilities resources or expertise to proactively meet higher social and environmental standards. that make your products? Recognizing this, in 2008 HP published guidelines to help multinationals raise the 4 How do you demonstrate that See HP’s full global citizenship Report at hp.com/go/report performance of smaller suppliers, which are often contracted by first-tier suppliers on your products are made in facilities their behalf. The guidelines were jointly developed with the Danish Commerce and where health and safety is a priority? Companies Agency and were based on a study of HP suppliers in Eastern Europe. The study examined how HP’s supply chain SER program equips first-tier suppliers to assess and train their own suppliers on effective management systems, occupational health 5 How do you ensure suppliers design and safety issues and environmental practices. This cascade effect of engaging smaller and manufacture your products to suppliers is key to how HP is driving rigorous standards throughout the IT supply chain. limit environmental impacts? Promoting advances across industries The guidelines proposed by HP include integrating management systems into opera6 How do you identify and resolve tions, following written requirements with audits, maintaining dialogue and engaging supplier nonconformance? suppliers in capability-building activities. The guidelines also call for multinationals to develop shared codes of conduct—and possibly perform joint audits—to ease the burden on suppliers of meeting numerous sets of requirements. HP is the first IT company to publish such a comprehensive strategy for responsible 7 How does your company help supply chain management. “We encourage other leading companies to adopt these suppliers build their capabilities? guidelines. Having a common approach for engaging the entire supply chain will help make rapid and substantial progress in raising social and environmental standards worldwide,” says Judy Glazer, director of global social and environmental responsibility operations at HP. 8 Who is accountable for the social and environmental performance of Download the full report, “Small Suppliers in Global Supply Chains,” by visiting hp.com/go/customer/URLs your company’s supply chain? 5 Environmentally sustainable IT ACROSS the enterprise In all industries, enterprises are adopting environmentally focused IT solutions to reduce costs and create efficiencies. Many are turning to HP, long a leader in products and services designed with the environment in mind. Below are HP solutions that can improve energy efficiency, cut greenhouse gas emissions and conserve resources—all while improving performance and saving money. 8 1 6 2 HP Global Citizenship Customer Report 2008 Turn on power 4 management 3 Convert to energyAll HP PCs and monitors ship with 5 efficient PCs energy-saving settings enabled. Using power management can save HP was the first leading PC maker up to $75 per desktop computer to offer desktops with 80% efficient Lighten up Print immediately out and monitor each year.3 power supplies, required under of powersave mode stringent ENERGY STAR® 4.0 Notebook PCs and flat-panel HP estimates that for monochrome guidelines. HP lab tests found that displays use fewer raw materials in LaserJet products, the energy saved PCs equipped with these power manufacturing and less packaging by using Instant-on Technology supplies and other ENERGY STAR to ship. Flat-panel HP TouchSmart between 1993 and 2007 avoided 4.0 hardware requirements can IQ 500 series PCs, which feature nearly 6.5 million tonnes of reduce total system power use by an integrated PC and monitor, use CO2e emissions, the equivalent of more than half.4 55% less metal and 37% less plastic removing 1.4 million cars from the than standard PCs and monitors.5 road for a year. 6 Measure your printing Curb power-hungry carbon footprint data centers Use the online HP Carbon A typical 2,000-square-meter data Footprint Calculator for printing center consumes as much power to assess the impact of your annually as a 40,000-square-meter printer fleet or to compare office building. See page 8 for product-specific energy usage. ways to reduce your data center Visit hp.com/go/customer/URLs energy use by as much as 60%. HP Managed Print Services saves more than $3M at 3M Meet virtually instead of flying Partnering with HP through Using HP Halo to eliminate 1,000 a Managed Print Services commercial flights between New agreement has saved 3M more York and London for one person than $3 million in two years in can prevent more than 1,200 the U.S. alone. The new printers tonnes of CO2e emissions— 7 use less power than the devices and save $2 million in airfare.7 HP SkyRoom will bring highthey replaced, and are set to defini­tion collaboration to the default to duplex printing. So 3M desktop, making virtual meetings saves both energy and paper. even more accessible to a larger number of people. In addition, 3M participates in the HP Planet Partners Recycling Program, recycling 100% of its print cartridges. Read the 3M case study and download “A Green IT Action Plan for Printing and Imaging,” at hp.com/go/customer/URLs Recycle IT equipment 6 and print supplies See HP’s full global citizenship Report at hp.com/go/report The plastics and metals in IT equipment can be used in new products, lowering demand for raw materials and diverting waste from landfills. To date, HP has recovered 157,500 tonnes of print cartridges through its Planet Partners return and recycling program. See page 9 Take control of your for HP’s reuse and recycling printing and imaging services for IT equipment. By centrally managing your printing fleet with HP Web Jetadmin software, you can set device sleep and wake modes. And to save even more money, turning off imaging and printing devices outside of business hours can help lower energy costs associated with office equipment by up to 66%.6 7 Reduce, reclaim and extend: The energy-efficient data center 1 Develop a plan With mounting pressure Developing a comprehensive plan is essential. Solutions range from improving to meet computing facility-wide power distribution and demand while lowering cooling efficiency to boosting server and storage costs, interest in improving performance. HP Data Center Transformation Services help with facility design and managethe energy efficiency of ment, HP Energy Efficiency Services provide data centers—which can solutions for power and cooling, and HP Thermal Logic technology optimizes power management represent nearly 40% of from the server to the entire data center. an enterprise’s energy use—is on the rise.8 HP recommends taking a holistic approach. 2 Here’s how. Be smart about cooling You may be overcooling your data center just to prevent a few 4 Increase server efficiency hot spots. HP’s Thermal Zone New blade servers include Mapping reveals cooling regions in 3D, energy-efficient processors and helping you fine-tune cooling settings power supplies, small form-factor and optimize the location of air condidrives, active fan technology and lowtioning units and density of server racks. power memory. For example, the HP HP also offers the HP PerformanceProLiant BL460c G5 server cuts energy Optimized Data Center, which delivers use by up to 25% over HP’s previous additional data center space, combining model, yielding up to $2,200 in energy impressive energy savings with support savings per enclosure over three years.9 for intense power densities. 3 Reclaim unused capacity Expanding a data center can cost up to $25 million per redundant megawatt of added electrical capacity. One solution “HP’s thermal modeling is HP Insight Control Environment with Dynamic exercise has given us a Power Capping for select HP ProLiant servers, software that sets an optimum threshold based better and more efficient on actual power usage. As a result, you can add data center with the servers without overloading power distribution capacity to grow and be HP Global Citizenship Customer Report 2008 systems, increasing effective capacity by up to 200% and delaying capital-intensive upgrades. more adaptive and flexible to the changing environment of our business.” 6 Build, consolidate or retrofit Whether you consolidate or build —Maurice Perros, 5 a new data center, virtually every EMEA data center director, Tap into the cloud choice can affect its environmental Alcatel-Lucent To quickly scale to meet footprint. HP Critical Facilities Services can computing demand, consider optimize your data center’s infrastructure— a cloud computing solution. HP including mechanical, electrical and plumbing Adaptive Infrastructure as a Service allows systems that meet LEED requirements—in enterprises to host applications in HP data alignment with scalable, energy-efficient data centers. This can help reduce reliance on center solutions, driving down capital and less energy-efficient legacy technology, operating costs over a typical data center by and avoid the expense and environmental up to 25%.10 In 2008, HP completed consoliimpact of purchasing, installing and dation of 85 HP internal IT data centers into powering new infrastructure. just six locations in three U.S. cities. 8 Best practices for IT asset recovery Putting old PCs or servers in storage Reuse to maximize value Recycle at end of life can be a security threat and erodes their Reusing IT saves money and limits At some point, all IT equipment must residual value. Disposal involves meete-waste. If your organization can no be retired. Recycling keeps potentially ing increasingly strict data protection longer use old assets, HP will remove hazardous substances out of landfills and and environmental regulations. These them—manufactured by HP or not— recovers plastics and metals that can be challenges are prompting new solutions and may pay for their remaining resale reused in new products, reducing demand for IT asset management that emphasize value. HP collected about 3.5 million for raw materials. HP has been a leader reclaiming value and limiting risk. hardware units for reuse in 2008. in offering recycling services since 1991. Secure sensitive data Monitor and meet regulations Scrutinize every link To protect your organization from a Regulations, such as Sarbanes-Oxley When engaging a disposition partner, it security breach, it is essential to have and HIPAA in the United States and the is important to verify it does not export a rigorous process for wiping sensitive Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment waste to avoid environmental regulations. data from electronic equipment as you (WEEE) Directive in Europe govern the HP requires vendors to meet its Global decommission it. HP deletes customer disposal of IT assets to protect privacy Reuse and Recycling Standards, which identification tags and other informaand the environment. Customers that rely specify guidelines for storing, handling tion from old IT using industry standard on HP asset recovery services do not and processing equipment. Last year, HP software and processes, making data have the resource-intensive task of moniconducted and reported results for over virtually irretrievable. toring and ensuring compliance with such 40 audits of reuse and recycling vendors regulations. HP manages disposal of old in 22 countries. IT in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. See HP’s full global citizenship Report at hp.com/go/report 34,000 HP tests its own recovery program tonnes As part of a three-year internal IT transformation initiative completed in 2008, HP consolidated Volume of electronics hardware HP 85 internal IT data centers worldwide to six recovered for reuse in 2008, up next-generation data centers. In the process, it 16% compared with 2007 reduced its number of servers by 40%, prompting a large-scale asset recovery program spanning 29 countries. Of the more than 44,500 units of 120,000 equipment collected, nearly 70% were refurbished tonnes and resold, with the remaining recycled. By reclaiming such a large percentage of assets for reuse, HP saved more than $1.75 million. Volume of electronic products and supplies HP recycled in 2008, up 6% compared with 2007 9 City 2.0: HP’s vision for a sustainable future Responding to population, resource and climate issues presents unprecedented challenges and opportunities for governments and businesses. As urban infrastructure is replaced or built anew, HP believes information technology will be key to sustainability, fueling growth while decreasing environmental impact. HP and WWF Worldwide, cities are expanding by 60 million grid of integrated data centers as a utility, for people annually—the equivalent of adding instance, could create large economies of scale. another Paris, Beijing or Cairo every other “Low-cost energy and IT services would be great HP and World Wildlife Fund month—putting increasing pressure on natural catalysts for business,” Patel says. (WWF) are collaborating to resources.11 Forecasted population relocations combat climate change, and According to Prith Banerjee, senior vice from areas afflicted by natural disasters and are jointly focused on reducing president, research and director of HP Labs, resource shortages caused by climate change greenhouse gas emissions, public and commercial sectors will be under will further compound the problem. improving energy use, using pressure to streamline operations and minimize technology in conservation, and Reinventing cities for scalability and sustainability costs. “Organizations will need to deliver more educating and inspiring others to As a result, according to Chandrakant Patel, resources and products with the least energy take action. HP fellow and director of HP’s Sustainable IT and carbon footprint,” he says. “In meeting this Ecosystem Laboratory, “We must create a sustainchallenge, City 2.0 will create tremendous oppor“World Wildlife Fund envisions able model for cities that takes full advantage tunities for responsible innovation and growth.” a future in which business makes of the technologies of the Information Age.” HP Putting HP’s vision to the test a positive contribution to the refers to this model as City 2.0. well-being of society and the HP Labs is using its data center facilities in planet. To achieve this, WWF Every aspect of City 2.0—from energy, water Bangalore, India, and Palo Alto, California, as a engages in challenging and and waste to buildings and transportation test bed for core aspects of City 2.0. Thousands innovative partnerships with systems—will be designed with the life cycle in of sensors in each of these data centers monitor companies to drive change. mind. HP applies this “cradle-to-cradle” concept the demand and flow of resources in real-time. in developing products and services, and HP Labs is exploring opportunities to deliver these WWF has a long-standing relaenvisions scaling this concept to entire cities. solutions on an unprecedented scale. tionship with HP. In 2008, HP and WWF completed a joint research HP Global Citizenship Customer Report 2008 Another key will be integrating IT into the fabric “HP has the breadth and depth to provide all initiative to identify potential IT of cities to better match supply with demand. aspects of the City 2.0 IT ecosystem, including applications that can help save Patel describes deploying systems of resource the billions of service-oriented client devices, more than a billion tonnes of micro-grids, a widespread, interconnected IT thousands of data centers and print factories carbon dioxide emissions.” network made up of sensors, handheld devices needed to implement the vision.” Patel says. “And and data centers, to deliver resources according we have a legacy in measurement, communica—Dennis Pamlin, Global to the ebb and flow of urban needs. “These tion, and computation. Now we need to leverage Policy Advisor, WWF intelligent technologies would ensure precise the past to create the future, one where we meet availability where and when resources are society’s needs by ‘right-provisioning’ resources Download HP’s Climate Strategy Whitepaper needed, reducing unused surplus and waste,” so future generations can have the same quality at hp.com/go/customer/URLs Patel says. of life we enjoy today.” Opportunities for the public sector and enterprises Learn more about City 2.0 and the HP Sustainable HP foresees helping governments design and IT Ecosystem Lab by visiting hpl.hp.com adopt City 2.0 infrastructure that would support and stimulate business. Running a city-wide 10 the imperative to protect privacy Until recently, how and where information was collected, analyzed, stored and shared was limited by technological, economic and geographic boundaries. But with advances in technology, data now moves virtually anywhere and between anyone—raising complex privacy issues. Designing for privacy HP was among the first IT companies to “The solution is developing shared principles respond to this emerging challenge. It has taken across economies that respect local differences. pioneering measures to strengthen privacy in its And businesses will need to be accountable for HP expanded its Design for operations, products and services, and supply their actions.” Privacy program in 2008, which chain. HP’s overriding objective is to ensure the yielded HP’s Secure Advantage Applying a new model of accountability portfolio. It includes servers, privacy of its customers and employees, and to help enterprises protect the privacy of their HP collaborated with the Centre for Information storage, software and services customers and employees. Policy Leadership to develop a groundbreaking with technologies that help enterPrivacy Accountability Model. It reflects HP’s goal prise customers securely share Finding the right balance to safeguard privacy and drive greater accountinformation, improve identity The challenge is in balancing access to crucial ability in its decision-making processes, a higher management and compliance data with responsibly collecting and using objective than simply complying with the law, controls, ensure business continuinformation, regardless of its origin, route or observing industry norms and mitigating liability. ity and defend against network destination. According to Marty Abrams, execu“We apply the same privacy principles everyattacks. Other examples of HP tive director of the Centre for Information Policy where HP operates,” says Scott Taylor, chief security technologies include: Leadership, current models fail to address both privacy officer at HP. “We review decisions to sides of this equation. • HP Drive Encryption makes ensure that they not only meet laws and our a hard drive unreadable to See HP’s full global citizenship Report at hp.com/go/report “Privacy is a local issue, reflecting cultural obligations, but that they also reflect HP values unauthorized users. conditions and governed by country jurisdicand customer expectations, and take into tions,” Abrams notes. “But the global movement account risks to our business and customers.” • HP Disk Sanitizer allows a user of data blurs those borders.” For example, when to destroy hard drive data to HP believes its model is an important step a U.S. citizen makes a purchase from a website government standards. forward, but sees greater opportunity industryhosted in Brazil, the information collected might wide. It advocates for greater cooperation • HP Privacy Manager protects be processed in India and stored in Canada. among companies and governments, and is against identity theft by As a result, it may be subject to conflicting working to educate stakeholders about privacyencrypting electronic privacy regulations. related implications of technological advances. communications. One approach is to identify applicable laws in “We are collaborating with regulators and each case and comply with the most restrictive. non-governmental organizations to help develop This can be complex and costly, hindering a new frameworks and more consistent privacy Take the test—how well company from responding to customer expectastandards,” says Taylor, citing HP’s work with the are you protecting data? tions and market requirements. Asia Pacific Economic Cooperative (APEC) and Abrams believes there is a better way. “The the European Commission and the French Data The online HP Storage Security obligation to protect data is universal. But that Protection Authority. Self-Assessment tool can help obligation should not impede business,” he says. you identify privacy vulnerabilities and develop measures to manage risk, safeguard data and comply with privacy regulations. Visit hp.com/go/customer/URLs 11 The power of technology to transform teaching and learning Last year, HP invested $25.7 million to advance creative uses of technology to help teachers redesign the learning experience and more deeply engage students, and to promote the success of entrepreneurs and microenterprises. To foster the next generation of high-tech innovators, HP focuses on science, technology, engineering and math in secondary schools and higher-learning institutions. In total, HP contributed $46.2 million in cash and products to advance education, promote entrepreneurship and assist communities in 2008. Re-imagining the learning experience Brookfield High School in Ontario, enables students to deepen connections Canada, continues to illustrate how with the material and work together Brookfield High School mobile technologies can enrich learning. closely. “Students are more engaged in Biology students there use HP Tablet PCs exploring and learning,” says Beverly to capture field data, and physics classes Wilkinson, a teacher at Brookfield. “It’s a employ them to model experiments. These whole new classroom dynamic.” Location: Ontario, Canada hands-on experiences are the result of an The HP Technology for Teaching grant HP Technology for Teaching grant that program has provided more than has unleashed creativity and collaboraTechnology: HP mobile technologies $60 million to over 1,000 schools in 41 tion among the school’s teachers while countries since 2004. Watch brief videos Organization: increasing student engagement. to see how the program is making a With HP Tablet PCs connected to a wiredifference at Brookfield and other schools Focus: Enriching learning less network, teachers have powerful by visiting hp.com/go/customer/URLs tools to deliver interactive, personalized lessons with real-time feedback. This Working to reverse “brain drain” in Africa In many developing countries, the exodus power and storage on a single task or UNESCO of skilled professionals, scientists and problem, as well as financial support HP Global Citizenship Customer Report 2008 academics is an acute problem. This and training. The pilot program in Africa, so-called brain drain chokes economic launched in 2008 in Algeria, Ghana, Africa and social development by depriving a Nigeria, Senegal and Zimbabwe, concountry of its talent and experience. As nects local researchers with colleagues, the world’s largest IT company, HP is in research networks and funding organizaa unique position to help. Since 2003, tions worldwide to open up opportunities Technology: HP grid computing technology it has partnered with the United Nations not previously available in their native Educational, Scientific and Cultural countries. For example, the Centre for the Organization: Organization (UNESCO) to counter brain Development of Renewable Energies is drain, first in Southeast Europe and now using HP grid computing technology to Focus: Connecting researchers Location: in Africa. connect Algerian researchers from around the world to bring innovative solar energy HP is providing grid computing technolsolutions, greater capital investment and ogy, which focuses dispersed computing more jobs to their native country. 12 SANKYA Plus Education Program In 2008, HP India and Rotary International partnered to connect more than 500 schools to an online knowledge Rotary International center. Known as SANKYA Plus, the initiative is being funded by a $150,000 HP grant. The program makes virtual classroom sessions, simulated laboratory packages and other tools available to students who may otherwise India have limited access to educational resources. SANKYA Plus is an extension of SANKYA, HP India’s PC reuse program that has provided over 3,500 refurbished HP Technology: Recovered HP computers computers to more than 750 schools. Organization: Location: Focus: Providing access Building business and IT skills among young people MEA-I and UNIDO High unemployment, low income and United Nations Industrial Development limited access to jobs are chronic Organization (UNIDO) to further challenges for young people in understrengthen the program in the Middle served communities. The Graduate East and Africa. In 2008, the program Europe, the Middle East and Africa Entrepreneurship Training through IT doubled the number of its training (GET-IT) program is combating these centers to 70 in 25 countries. GET-IT issues in Europe, the Middle East and training emphasizes building practical Africa (EMEA) by helping students and IT skills to solve daily business chalHP contribution: Training and technical support recent graduates develop business and lenges. To spread the reach of GET-IT IT skills to enter the workforce and beyond the classroom, HP has created a OrganizationS: launch small businesses. web portal—www.get-it-city.net—where young entrepreneurs can go for training Focus: Building skills, promoting entrepreneurship Location: HP launched GET-IT in 2007 in and advice. HP and its partners plan to collaboration with the Micro-Enterprise expand GET-IT to reach over 500,000 See HP’s full global citizenship Report at hp.com/go/report Acceleration Institute (MEA-I) in EMEA, students by 2010. and formed a partnership with the “HP’s Technology for Teaching grant has allowed us to take our Mobile Mapping project to a whole new level. Now our students are deeply engaged with learning, and getting essential, hands-on experience with technology that will benefit them in their post-graduate careers.” —Meg Stewart, Academic Computing Consultant for GIS, Vassar College 13 global citizenship in action The impact of HP’s global citizenship initiatives is visible in businesses and communities around the world. 1 In Costa Rica, 430 HP employees planted 1,800 trees as part of HP Forest, a threeyear program to plant 6,000 trees that will 1 capture more than 360 tonnes of CO2 over the next 25 years. 2 Northern Arizona University in the United States used an HP Technology for Teaching 3 UPS uses the new HP Handheld sp400 grant to integrate mobile technologies into its All-in-One to print labels directly on packcurriculum, broadening learning opportunities ages, eliminating paper labels. The device is outside the classroom. Since 2004, HP has forecast to save UPS more than $30 million contributed nearly $60 million in grants to in labor, capital and supplies over the next over 1,000 schools in 41 countries. five years. 2 HP Global Citizenship Customer Report 2008 6 Following the earthquake in Sichuan, China, HP employees restored classrooms at three schools, equipping students with 80 HP desktop PCs. It was part of a broader HP emergency relief effort helping rebuild local communities. HP, its employees and the HP Company Foundation contributed over 6 $3 million to Sichuan earthquake relief efforts. 14 4 HP participates in the SmartWaySM 5 HP Labs is researching solutions to the program, a partnership between the U.S. most urgent challenges and promising EPA and the U.S. freight industry targeting opportunities facing businesses and society. reductions in fuel consumption and related One of its focus areas is developing a 4 GHG and other air emissions. In 2008, comprehensive approach to security and HP became the first company to qualify to privacy as IT devices, applications and data display the SmartWay logo on its personal become more open and widely shared. computer products. 5 3 7 8 See HP’s full global citizenship Report at hp.com/go/report 7 7 In 2008, HP held sessions in Shenzhen and Kunshan, China, to train management 8 HP product design teams integrate assistive teams from nearly 50 supplier sites on social technologies and features to improve accessi8 and environmental standards and practices. bility, productivity and user comfort. Examples HP’s approach emphasizes building supplier include buttons identifiable by touch, ports capabilities to promote sustainable improveand switches positioned within easy reach, ments throughout the global IT supply chain. and large adjustable displays. 15 Performance This is a summary of performance data from the comprehensive HP Global Citizenship Report 2008 online, which includes additional metrics and data. All data are for HP’s fiscal year (ending October 31 of the year indicated), unless otherwise noted. 2005 2006 2007 2008 HP profile Net revenue [million $U.S.] note12 $91,658 $104,286 $118,364 Human rights and labor practices Supply chain responsibility Suppliers engaged [total, cumulative] 480 565 615 635 Audits conducted [total including re-audits, cumulative] (detailed audit results online) 85 207 351 480 HP employees Worldwide workforce demographics [women as a % of total employees] (detailed U.S. ethnicity data online) 29.9% 29.9% 30.0% 30.1% Lost workday case rate [global rate]13 0.11 0.13 0.10 0.07 Value of cash and products donated by employees, including HP-matched funds [million $U.S.] $16.9 $12.6 $13.4 $12.8 Environmental sustainability Climate and energy Electricity use in operations [million kWh]14 2,801 2,759 2,704 2,729 Renewable energy purchasing in operations [million kWh energy and renewable energy credits] NA 11.4 61.4 101.9 GHG emissions from operations [tonnes CO2e] 1,551,300 1,598,500 1,516,300 1,448,500 GHG emissions from HP employee business commercial air travel [tonnes CO2e] 279,000 289,000 289,000 265,000 HP operations—other Nonhazardous waste [tonnes] 102,567 106,492 89,275 91,832 Nonhazardous waste landfill diversion rate [% of total produced] 87.8% 88.2% 88.4% 91.3% Water consumption [million liters] 8,136 8,358 7,359 7,225 Product reuse and recycling 15 Total annual recycling—computer hardware and supplies combined [tonnes] 64,000 75,000 113,000 120,000 Total annual reuse of equipment [tonnes, approximate] 23,000 22,000 29,000 34,000 Social investment Worldwide giving, total [million $U.S.]16 $45.3 $45.6 $47.1 $46.2 HP Global Citizenship Customer Report 2008 16 Goals This is a partial list of HP’s global citizenship goals. See additional goals in several categories, as well as progress toward goals for 2008, in the comprehensive HP Global Citizenship Report 2008 online. Goals are for year noted. Human rights and labor practices Supply chain responsibility 2009: Expand supply chain social and environmental responsibility (SER) program beyond materials, components, and manufacturing and distribution suppliers to engage and assess 50 high-priority goods and services suppliers 2012: Develop supply chain SER programs that HP suppliers representing 75% of materials, components, and manufacturing and distribution spend will use with their suppliers Environmental sustainability Climate and energy (operations and products) 2010: HP will reduce the combined energy consumption and associated GHG emissions of HP operations and products to 25% below 2005 levels by achieving the following: • Operations: HP will reduce energy consumption and the resulting GHG emissions from HP-owned and HP-leased facilities worldwide to 16% below 2005 levels •P  roducts: HP will reduce the energy consumption of HP products17 and associated GHG emissions through specific goals for representative product categories, including the following goals for HP’s high-volume printer, server, and desktop and notebook PC families: By 2011, HP will improve the overall energy efficiency of HP ink and laser printing products by 40%, relative to 200518 By 2010, improve energy efficiency for high-volume HP server families by 50%, relative to 200519 By 2010, reduce the energy consumption of high-volume HP desktop and notebook PC families by 25%, relative to 200520 2012: Double HP purchases of renewable energy from 4% in 2008 to 8% Sustainable design 2009: 100% of HP’s consumer photo paper will derive from sustainable-forest-certified suppliers 2010: Remove all mercury from HP’s entire notebook line by the end of 2010 2010: Triple the amount of recycled materials used in our inkjet printers, relative to 2007 HP operations 2009: Continue to divert at least 87% of solid (nonhazardous) waste from landfill globally through the end of 2009 2010: Reduce water consumption by 5%, compared with 2007 Product reuse and recycling21 2010: Recycle 2 billion pounds (900,000 tonnes) of electronic products and supplies by the end of 2010 (since 1987) 2010: Reuse 450 million pounds (200,000 tonnes) of electronic products by the end of 2010 (since 2003) Social investment 2009: Initiate more than 130 HP Innovations in Education grant-supported projects worldwide that showcase the future of learning “Our customers are increasingly looking to HP to help them manage and transform their technology environments. We work with them to provide environmentally sustainable solutions that lower cost, help them grow and manage risk.” —Ann Livermore, Executive Vice President, Technology Solutions Group To learn more, visit hp.com/go/report About this report This report covers all HP operations but does not include joint ventures. This report does not include information from EDS sites, because HP’s acquisition of EDS closed late in the 2008 fiscal year. That data will be integrated into HP’s Global Citizenship Report 2009. Unless otherwise noted, all references to 2008 refer to the fiscal year, which ended October 31, 2008. All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars ($). “Tonnes” refers to metric tonnes. (One metric tonne is equivalent to 2,205 pounds.) Throughout this report, “greenhouse gas” or “GHG” refers to all greenhouse gases emitted by human activities, and “CO2e” refers to “carbon dioxide equivalent,” the unit used to measure greenhouse gases. CO2 is the main, but not the only, manmade greenhouse gas. Throughout this report, product “reuse” or “remarketing” refers to the return to use of complete electronic products and component parts. “Recycling” refers to the processing of waste electronic devices and consumable items for recovery of materials or energy. For an index of websites and online resources cited in this report, visit hp.com/go/customer/URLs Report endnotes 1 As of October 31, 2008. 2 Aggregated CO2e emissions represent the sum of HP-allocated suppliers’ emissions and are calculated by factoring the total supplier emissions by the percentage of HP dollar volume to the suppliers’ total revenue. 3 See: energystar.gov/index.cfm?c=power_mgt.pr_power_management 4 Internal testing; customer results will vary. Variables include customer-determined percentage of sleep state, idle state, productivity state and peak usage state. Also, manufacturing variability will affect the savings a customer may see. HP advises customers to test a system with an 80% efficient power supply in their environment to determine potential savings. 5 Percent reduction based on comparison with an HP Pavilion a6000 PC and HP w2207 monitor bundle. 6 See: eere.energy.gov/buildings/commercial/printable_versions/appliances.html 7 Assumes $2,000 per person per round trip between New York and London. 8 U.S. Department of Energy, 2007 and U.S. EPA Report to Congress on Server and Data Center Efficiency, August 2, 2007. 9 Source: HP internal testing; customer results will vary. Assumes rate of $0.08 per kWh and cooling multiplier of 1.5. 10 Based on internal analysis. Assumes 210,000 square-foot data center with 80,000 square-foot raised floor, 8,000 kW critical load, 2N electrical system, water-cooled central plant and 24x7 operation, 100% constant load. 11 See: wri.org/publication/content/8121 12 Only three years of data reported for consistency with HP’s 2008 10-k. 13 Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. 14 Operations include HP’s office, manufacturing, distribution and data center facilities and the volumes of electricity, natural gas, water and waste from activities at these locations. 15 Hardware recycling data from Europe, the Middle East and Africa and HP LaserJet recycling data are calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. 16 Includes cash, products and services. Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. 17 Average energy efficiency per unit shipped using IDC-reported figures for 2005, across identified high-volume product families, using industry-standard measurement benchmarks. Identified product families include notebook and desktop computers, inkjet and LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. 18 Efficiency is defined in terms of kWh (using the Total Electricity Consumption Method/pages per minute). These families represent more than 32% of inkjet printers and more than 45% of LaserJet printers shipped in 2005. HP updated this goal from the goal included in the FY07 Global Citizenship Report, which targeted a 30% improvement in energy efficiency by 2010 relative to 2005. 19 Efficiency is defined in terms of kWh/transactions per minute (using SPEC or another benchmark appropriate to the server class). Goal applies to HP industry-standard servers, referenced in footnote 17. 20 Energy consumption is defined as watts consumed in idle mode (using the U.S. ENERGY STAR® test protocol). Idle mode represents over 75% of total energy consumption. The improvement will be calculated by averaging the energy consumption of HP desktop and notebook platforms across shipped volume. 21 These goals were updated this year to distinguish reuse from recycling and increase the overall amount of the target. © 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein. 4AA2-4789ENW, March 2009
