OCHA
UNITED NATIONS OFFICE
FOR THE COORDINATION OF
HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

OCHA THANKS ITS DONORS FOR THEIR GENEROUS
SUPPORT TO ITS ACTIVITIES* IN 2016

UNITED STATES

UNITED KINGDOM

SWEDEN

EUROPEAN COMMISSION

GERMANY

NORWAY

SWITZERLAND

JAPAN

BELGIUM

AUSTRALIA

CANADA

NETHERLANDS

IRELAND

DENMARK

FINLAND

NEW ZEALAND

SPAIN

REPUBLIC OF KOREA

FRANCE

RUSSIAN FEDERATION

LUXEMBOURG

AUSTRIA

POLAND

TURKEY

ESTONIA

MALTA

KAZAKHSTAN

GEORGIA

ICELAND

THAILAND

ROMANIA

BULGARIA

SINGAPORE

CZECH REPUBLIC

CHINA

MONACO

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

HUNGARY

PHILIPPINES

KUWAIT

(* included in OCHA’s extrabudgetary budget)

CREDITS
This document is produced by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). OCHA wishes to
acknowledge the contributions of its committed staff at headquarters and in the field in preparing this document.
Front Cover
Shora, Iraq: A father and three children displaced by fighting in the village of Shora, 25 kilometers south of Mosul, flee for
safety. This photo was taken near an Iraqi Army checkpoint on the northern outskirts of Qayyarah, Mosul. Qayyarah was
retaken from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) two months before this image was captured. The thick black
smoke in the background is due to oil wells set ablaze by retreating ISIL militants. Credit: UNHCR/Ivor Prickett
Back Cover
Qayyarah, Iraq: Two humanitarian workers in the field. Credit: OCHA/Themba Linden
Editing and Graphic Design
OCHA New York
For additional information, please contact:
Donor Relations Section
ocha.donor.relations@un.org
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs Palais des Nations, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland
Tel: +41 22 917 1690
The designations employed and the presentation of material on this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion
whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or
area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS
4	FOREWORD
6	

2016 YEAR IN REVIEW

14	

CORE FUNCTIONS

14	ADVOCACY
16	COORDINATION
18	
HUMANITARIAN FINANCING
19	
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
21	POLICY

24	

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

25	
29	
34	
36	
55	

LEVEL 3 EMERGENCY RESPONSE
CORPORATE EMERGENCIES
PROTRACTED EMERGENCIES
FIELD OFFICES
GLOBAL FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

68	

STRATEGIC GOAL TWO: FIT FOR THE FUTURE

73	

MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION

76	

FUNDING AND FINANCE

83	ANNEXES
84	
85	
86	

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
OCHA ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
FINANCIAL TABLES AND CHARTS

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

4

FOREWORD

Gaziantep, Turkey
Emergency Relief
Coordinator Stephen
O’Brien speaks to
Syrian refugees
during his 2016 visit
to Turkey. Among
Syria’s neighbouring
countries, Turkey
hosts the largest
number of Syrian
refugees within its
borders.
Credit: OCHA/Iason
Foounten

In 2016, the humanitarian community was
challenged as never before, with unprecedented levels of humanitarian suffering that
left 130 million people needing emergency
assistance for their survival and protection.
Conflict, violence and acute vulnerability
have driven 65 million people from their
homes, two thirds of them within their own
country’s borders. The United Nations and
its partners appealed for US$22.1 billion to
respond with life-saving assistance and protection to the most acutely vulnerable 96.2
million people across 40 countries. Donors
generously provided a record $12.6 billion,
but this still left a 43 per cent gap between
escalating needs and available resources.

Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL),
which, by year-end, had displaced 100,000
people. This came amid a wider humanitarian
response to the humanitarian crisis affecting
10 million people in Iraq.

Three years into the conflict in South Sudan, conditions continued to worsen, with
mounting human rights abuses, particularly
gender-based violence, increasing food insecurity and 1.8 million people displaced. In
Syria, where 13.5 million people continued
to need life-saving aid, we negotiated access
to people in need—particularly the millions
of civilians who were besieged or cut off from
assistance—and we coordinated cross-border
and cross-line relief deliveries and mobilized
OCHA’s response efforts were dominated by resources. The conflict in Yemen escalated,
four major humanitarian crises: Iraq, South pushing the number of people in need to 18.8
Sudan, Syria and Yemen, all protracted con- million and sparking the world’s worst food
flicts. In Iraq, we undertook extensive prepa- security crisis.
rations for the humanitarian impact of the
military operation to retake Mosul from the

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

FOREWORD

Other protracted crises also figured highly
on OCHA’s agenda, including those rarely
making the headlines, such as the deepening
crisis in the Lake Chad Basin. Such crises continued to be an important advocacy focus for
OCHA, as we encouraged the international
community to step up its response.

to a Grand Bargain to improve aid transparency and efficiency. OCHA committed
to expanding CERF’s annual funding target
to $1 billion and the proportion of humanitarian appeal funding channelled through
CBPFs by 15 per cent by 2018, strengthening
risk management and raising allocations to
national partners. We agreed to strengthen
In February, Tropical Cyclone Winston hit the protection of internally displaced persons
Fiji and caused one of the largest natural and advance accountability to affected people,
disasters in the region in recent times. The especially women and girls. Following the
7.8-magnitude earthquake that struck Ecua- Summit, OCHA launched the online Platdor in April killed more than 600 people and form for Action, Commitments and Transleft more than 700,000 in need of humanitar- formations to showcase and track progress
ian assistance. In October, the humanitarian on commitments made.
community’s attention was required in Haiti
when Hurricane Matthew destroyed homes, Central to our commitment to change, and
essential services and livelihoods and left 1.4 following the findings of a 2015 review of
million people in need of support, catalysing OCHA’s functions, we launched an ambitious
an OCHA surge response. OCHA allocated reform process in 2016 that aims to remodel
nearly $61 million from the Central Emer- our internal structures, procedures and progency Response Fund (CERF) to 13 coun- cesses to ensure we are fit for purpose for futries affected by the El Niño weather phe- ture crises. Through these reforms, we aim
nomenon, which affected 60 million people to develop a more focused, streamlined and
across Eastern and Southern Africa, Central nimble OCHA to effectively serve the humanAmerica and the Pacific. OCHA-managed itarian community over the coming years.
Country-Based Pooled Funds (CBPFs) allocated $713 million to life-saving projects in We could not have accomplished any of this
18 of the world’s most severe emergencies, work without the important collaboration
and they were the largest source of directly of all of our partners, from traditional and
accessible funding for national non-govern- emerging donors, to civil-society groups and
private sector firms. As Emergency Relief
mental organizations.
Coordinator, I thank all of you for your comOCHA was honoured to hold the first-ever mitment to the humanitarian endeavour and,
landmark World Humanitarian Summit in particular, to OCHA.
in Istanbul in May, hosted by the Government of Turkey. At the Summit, 9,000 participants—representing 180 Member States,
more than 700 national and international
NGOs, the private sector, academics and other stakeholders—made more than 3,500 commitments and launched dozens of important
partnerships and initiatives in support of the
Secretary-General’s Agenda for Humanity.
OCHA signed on to a Commitment to AcSTEPHEN O’BRIEN
tion, alongside eight other UN agencies, to
Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian
launch a “New Way of Working” in crises to
Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator
help bridge the humanitarian-development
divide. Leaders at the Summit also agreed

130M
PEOPLE NEED
EMERGENCY
ASSISTANCE

5

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

6

2016 YEAR IN REVIEW

2016 marked the twenty-fifth anniversary of
General Assembly resolution 46/182, which
laid the foundation for the current humanitarian system and created the Department of
Humanitarian Affairs, later renamed OCHA.
In 2016, the resolution remains as relevant
and fundamental as it was in December 1991.
At the heart of this humanitarian ecosystem,
OCHA has ensured that the voices of the
most vulnerable people are heard and their
needs addressed.

Twenty-fifth anniversary
of General Assembly
resolution 46/182
December 2016 marked the twenty-fifth anniversary
of the adoption of General Assembly (GA) resolution
46/182. It was a turning point in global affairs, where
the international community gathered with resolve
to create an organized system for it to respond to humanitarian crises.
Alongside the Geneva conventions, GA resolution
46/182 has effectively become one of the core legislative pieces governing humanitarian action. The resolution is revisited, reinforced and reconfirmed each
year through the yearly GA resolutions on strengthening the coordination of humanitarian affairs, ensuring
relevance and reflecting the international community’s
will to reduce suffering. The key tools used in humanitarian response today all originated in the resolution:
the Inter-Agency Standing Committee, the Emergency Relief Coordinator role, humanitarian appeals,
CERF and OCHA.
OCHA marked the anniversary with a panel discussion
at its annual Global Humanitarian Policy Forum, headlined by the Deputy Secretary-General and first-ever
Emergency Relief Coordinator, Mr. Jan Eliasson, who
reflected on the progress made in the 25 years both in
the humanitarian field and in the UN. The anniversary
was a moment to commend the tremendous progress
in making international humanitarian response more
efficient and professional, but also to take stock of the
immense challenges of protracted crises, increased
intensity of natural disasters, and the erosion of international humanitarian law, which, among other factors,
was the reason for convening the World Humanitarian
Summit in Istanbul.

This year, protracted emergencies, suddenonset disasters and escalating complex humanitarian crises continued to challenge the
humanitarian community in its response to
some of the most pressing needs of millions
of people. Towards the end of 2015, the global humanitarian appeal required some $20.1
billion to provide life-saving humanitarian
assistance to more than 87.6 million people across 37 countries, most of which are
in conflict. By the end of 2016, some 130
million people required humanitarian assistance—a figure almost 200 per cent higher
than it was a decade earlier. Consequently,
the global requirements rose to $22.1 billion
at the end of 2016.
The world continues to witness more protracted crises and higher levels of human displacement due to the lack of durable political solutions. About 60 million people, half
of them children, were forced to flee their
homes due to conflict and violence during the
year. Protracted conflicts in Iraq, South Sudan,
Syria and Yemen continued to affect staggering numbers of people, placing extraordinary
strain on the humanitarian system.
2016 presented an extremely challenging operational and funding environment for humanitarian response, but OCHA continued
to be the best platform for donors seeking
the greatest humanitarian impact. Despite
generous support from its donors, OCHA
had limited financial and human resources
to coordinate life-saving humanitarian aid
in countries affected by conflicts, violence,
natural disasters and hunger.
In 2016, OCHA organized the first ever
World Humanitarian Summit (WHS) in Istanbul on 23 and 24 May, in partnership with
the Government of Turkey. The Summit
brought together 9,000 participants from
around the world to reaffirm their commitment to prevent and reduce human suffering, and to demonstrate their support for
the Agenda for Humanity and its five Core
Responsibilities: 1) Prevent and End Conflict,

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

YEAR IN REVIEW

7

2) Respect Rules of War, 3) Leave No One
Behind, 4) Working Differently to End Need,
and 5) Invest in Humanity. Twenty-four
key transformations form a starting point
to deliver the change requested under each
of these five areas.
The Summit generated more than 3,500
commitments to action and led to more
than a dozen new partnerships and initiatives to turn the five Core Responsibilities
into meaningful change for the world’s most
vulnerable people. In September, OCHA
launched the online Platform for Action,
Commitments and Transformations (PACT –
www.agendaforhumanity.org) to sustain the
spirit of collaboration and help measure progress for years to come.

omy continued to be in near collapse, and
public and private services were non-existent,
with some 7 million people at extreme levels of food insecurity. Managing the Yemen
Humanitarian Fund, OCHA allocated more
OCHA’s 2016 closing budget of $295 million than $100 million to UN agencies, national
represented less than 2.3 per cent of the total and international non-governmental organifinancing of $12.6 billion that it helped to zations (NGOs) and Red Cross/Red Crescent
raise through coordinated appeals within the organizations to implement life-saving proGlobal Humanitarian Overview (GHO) for jects. Thirty-four organizations, including 11
the same year. In addition to these appeals, national NGOs, received funds in 2016.
OCHA managed some $1.15 billion in pooled
funds during the year: $713 million in CBPFs In the Lake Chad Basin area of Western and
and $439 million through CERF.
Central Africa, more than 9 million people
needed humanitarian support due to conIn 2016, the conflict in Syria continued to flict and insecurity caused by Boko Haram.
cause the deaths of thousands of people. It The conflict remained costly for human lives,
left millions of people in need of protection homes and livelihoods. Tens of thousands
and life-saving aid and resulted in an un- of people in north-eastern Nigeria continprecedented number of internally displaced ued to live in conditions close to famine. To
persons (IDPs) and refugees. Humanitari- draw global attention to this regional crisis,
an agencies exerted continuous efforts to OCHA organized an event during the annual
negotiate access, deliver food and medical UN General Assembly, where world leaders
supplies and other essential services. In re- pledged an additional $163 million of the
sponse, OCHA undertook regular public and outstanding $542 million towards the total
private advocacy to urgently and stridently $739 million required for the response.
call to account the world’s decision makers
on the humanitarian situation, condemning In Iraq, more than 100,000 people were disatrocities and calling for collective action to placed in 2016 by the Mosul military campaign, leaving them in desperate need of food,
alleviate human suffering.
water, shelter and protection. This was in
In Yemen, the worsening conflict further addition to the already large-scale emergency
devastated the country, where millions of in Iraq, where some 10 million people needed
people needed some type of assistance or pro- humanitarian aid.
tection to meet their basic needs. The econ-

Syria
On 9 November
2016, displaced
children and adults
fled ISIL-controlled
areas in rural Raqqa
to Ain Issa, the main
staging point for
displaced families,
some 50 kms north
of Raqqa city.
Credit: UNICEF/
Soulaiman

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

8

YEAR IN REVIEW

intersector coordination, assessment and advocacy for an efficient response to the most
vulnerable communities

Wau, South Sudan
ERC Stephen O’Brien
speaks with a group
of women who have
escaped violence
in South Sudan
and are living in
the protected site
adjacent to the
UNMISS base in
Wau.
Credit: IOM/
Mohammed

In South Sudan, the conflict escalated, spread
to other parts of the country and displaced
more than 900,000 people, more than 700,000
of whom became refugees in neighbouring
countries. Horrific violations against civilians,
including killings, sexual violence and recruitment of children, were reported during
the year. Food insecurity and malnutrition
reached unprecedented levels. As the crisis
deteriorated, OCHA led inter-cluster missions to catalyse the scale-up of the response
in key areas facing new or escalating crises.
Humanitarian partners assisted more than 5.1
million people in 2016, reaching the target
established for the year, including provision
of inter-agency survival kits for thousands of
people in some of the hardest-to-access areas.
The 7.8-magnitude earthquake that struck
Ecuador killed more than 600 people and left
more than 700,000 in need of humanitarian
assistance. In response, OCHA immediately
deployed a 17-member United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination (UNDAC) team to support Government efforts,
particularly during the critical search-andrescue phase. Eleven OCHA staff members
were also deployed for six months to launch
a $73 million Flash Appeal and to support

In Haiti, Hurricane Matthew claimed hundreds of lives and left more than 1.4 million
people in need of assistance, plunging the
vulnerable country into its worst humanitarian crisis since the 2010 earthquake. Before
the hurricane hit the island, OCHA pre-deployed an UNDAC team to reinforce national
and local systems. OCHA also deployed a
Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator (DHC)
and strengthened emergency response capacity. In the first month of the response to
the hurricane, OCHA’s ReliefWeb.int posted
more than 1,100 reports on the impact, people’s needs and aid activities, ranging from
shelter and food security to sanitation and
public health.
In Fiji, Tropical Cyclone Winston severely
affected 40 per cent of the population and
left a trail of destruction in its wake. OCHA
implemented KoBo—a tool to improve data
collection—which enhanced the quality of the
response. This open-source data-collection
tool allowed aid workers to collect data in the
field using mobile devices, paper and computers. The data informed and supported the humanitarian response, helping relief efforts to
prioritize the restoration of essential services,
such as health, education, infrastructure and
agriculture, for the worst-affected people.
El Niño affected the lives and livelihoods of
more than 60 million people in 2016, especially in Eastern and Southern Africa, Central
America and the Pacific, causing 23 countries
to appeal for international humanitarian assistance. Through hosting the secretariat for
the Secretary-General’s Envoy for El Niño
and Climate, OCHA continued its strong
global advocacy campaign to improve the response. The OCHA-managed Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) also allocated
nearly $61 million to 13 countries, making
the Fund one of the largest supporters of early
humanitarian action in response to El Niño.
Syria
Five-year-old Thamer carries an empty jerry can in north-east Syria’s
Al-hol camp, which hosts more than 4,600 Iraqi refugees.
Credit: UNICEF/Souliman

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

About 60 million people,
half of them children, were
forced to flee their homes
due to conflict and violence
during the year.

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

10

YEAR IN REVIEW

Brussels

OCHA GENEVA
Switzerland
OCHA NEW YORK
USA

Mexico
Guatemala

Dominican Republic

Haiti
Honduras
Nicaragua

LATIN AMERICA AND THE
CARIBBEAN
Panamá, Panama

Colombia

Ecuador

Peru
Bolivia

Regional Ofﬁce coverage
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

AU - African Union
CAR - Central African Republic
DRC - Democratic Republic of the Congo
DPR of Korea - Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
oPt - occupied Palestinian territory
Syrian AR - Syrian Arab Republic
IR Iran - Islamic Republic of Iran
Regional Humanitarian Coordinator's Ofﬁce for the Syria Crisis, Amman, Jordan
The Regional Ofﬁce for Southern Africa merged with the Regional Ofﬁce for East Africa in 2016

OCHA presence in South Africa transitioned from a regional ofﬁce to a sub-regional ofﬁce in 2016

*

The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply the
expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations
concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning
the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
Date of creation: 3 January 2017

WEST AND
CENTRAL AFRICA
Dakar, Senegal

Mauritania

Mali

Niger

Burkina
Faso

Côte
d'Ivoire

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

11

YEAR IN REVIEW

2

Headquarters
Ofﬁces

Armenia

Yemen

Eritrea

Nigeria
CAR2
Cameroon

DRC

3

20

Humanitarian
Adviser Teams

3

Liaison
Ofﬁces

Japan

Pakistan

ASIA AND THE
PACIFIC
Bangkok,
Thailand

Gulf

Sudan

Country
Ofﬁces

DPR of
Korea4

Kyrgyzstan
Tajikistan

Lebanon Turkey (Syria Crisis)
(Syria Crisis) Syrian AR6 IR Iran
Iraq Afghanistan
MIDDLE EAST oPt5
RHC Syria Crisis8
AND NORTH
Jordan
AFRICA
(Syria Crisis) OCHA
Cairo, Egypt

Chad

29

Regional
Ofﬁces

CAUCASUS AND
CENTRAL ASIA
Almaty, Kazakhstan

Ukraine
Tunisia
(Libya Crisis)

6

Myanmar

Philippines

AU1

Ethiopia
South Sudan
Somalia

SOUTHERN AND
Burundi EASTERN AFRICA
Nairobi, Kenya9

Madagascar
South Africa*

Indonesia

Ofﬁce for the
Paciﬁc Islands

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

12

YEAR IN REVIEW

STAFF
MEMBERS

OCHA
KEY FACTS

COUNTRIES WITH
OCHA PRESENCE

2,271

60+

2016

USG/ASG
ADVOCACY
EFFORTS

WHS
23-24 MAY 2016
ISTANBUL

COUNTRIES VISITED
BY THE USG AND ASG

DAYS
TRAVELLING

31

174

PEOPLE
CONSULTED
IN THE PREPARATORY
PROCESS

COUNTRIES
IN WHICH
CONSULTATIONS
WERE HELD

NUMBER OF
PARTICIPANTS

23,000

153

9,000

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

YEAR IN REVIEW

13

OCHA
BUDGET

OCHA
INCOME

MAPS

REPORTS

INFOGRAPHICS

$295M

$262M

931

1,869

1,481

$

4
MOBILE APPS

6M USERS

(CRISES, HEADLINES,
JOBS AND VIDEOS)

(INCREASE OF 4.5% FROM 2015)

RELIEFWEB'S
TH
20 ANNIVERSARY

50%

FROM AFRICA

+35%

TURKEY

+15%

JORDAN

20

CORE
RESPONSIBILITIES OF
THE AGENDA FOR HUMANITY

NGOs

700

180

55

5
#1 PREVENT AND END CONFLICT
#2 RESPECT RULES OF WAR
#3 LEAVE NO ONE BEHIND
#4 WORKING DIFFERENTLY TO END NEED
#5 INVEST IN HUMANITY

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

14

CORE FUNCTIONS
ADVOCACY

In 2016, using a range of tactics, channels and
tools, OCHA led global advocacy for people affected by humanitarian crises, securing
financial support for humanitarian action
and facilitating operations in crisis situations
around the world.

OCHA successfully advocated for major policy priorities in 2016. The pinnacle of these
efforts was the first-ever World Humanitarian Summit (WHS), organized by OCHA
in Istanbul in May. OCHA’s advocacy and
communications around the event resulted in
a huge global uptake of the #ShareHumanity
Throughout the year, the Emergency Relief hashtag, reaching an audience of nearly 235
Coordinator (ERC), Stephen O’Brien, spoke million people. In the lead-up to the Summit,
forcefully in raising awareness on the pro- OCHA also launched the innovative global
tection of civilians trapped in humanitarian #impossiblechoices digital campaign in six
emergencies and calling for political solu- UN languages, engaging more than 100,000
tions to man-made problems. This advocacy people from 131 countries to call for global
included 28 briefings to the Security Council leaders to take action to deliver the Agenda
on a range of issues from Syria, South Sudan for Humanity for the 130 million people in
and Yemen, to the occupied Palestinian ter- crisis worldwide.
ritory (oPt) and the Lake Chad Basin. ERC
statements at the General Assembly and the Maintaining momentum from the Summit,
United Nations Economic and Social Council OCHA marked World Humanitarian Day
(ECOSOC) reinforced these messages, mak- in August 2016 with teams in more than 34
ing clear for policymakers the avoidable dev- countries taking part and customizing brandastating impact of war on civilians.
ing and assets specific to their crisis or situation. A One Humanity event at the General
Together with Humanitarian Coordinators Assembly in New York drew an audience of
(HCs) and OCHA’s senior leaders, the ERC some 2,000 people, with 1,200 people watchconducted extensive interviews and press ing the event live on webcast. More than
briefings, and published op-eds on major 150,000 people visited worldhumanitariancrises around the globe, generating wide- day.org on 19 August.
spread coverage in major media outlets and
gathering broad public support on life-saving In 2016, OCHA’s social media accounts inissues. Complementing these public advocacy creased the use of short, captivating videos;
efforts, the ERC and HCs engaged in private adapted the latest features, such as Facebook
advocacy with Governments and parties to Live; and increased key target audiences, such
conflict in many of the world’s most desper- as those in the diplomatic community and
ate areas to secure access for aid workers and international media. The corporate Facebook
build local support for humanitarian action. account amplified major advocacy messages and products, receiving about 29 million
Through compelling storytelling about people impressions and more than 100,000 engageliving through crisis, OCHA’s public advoca- ments during the year. OCHA conducted sigcy mobilized emergency funds for high-pro- nificant outreach through Twitter, garnering
file and forgotten crises around the world in a 120 per cent increase in followers on the
2016. Through active outreach, OCHA also ERC’s account, and a 30 per cent growth for
raised the profile and helped demonstrate OCHA’s corporate account.
the impact of OCHA-managed pooled funds
(CERF and CBPFs), which together raised a
record $1.13 billion ($426 million through
CERF and $704 million through CBPFs) in
support of the most urgent life-saving projects in 53 countries.

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

CORE FUNCTIONS

15

In the field, OCHA enhanced the quality
and timeliness of information disseminated
around a range of crises, including natural
disasters, and the corporate emergencies in
the Lake Chad Basin, South Sudan, Syria and
Yemen. OCHA’s consolidated figures, media
dispatches and situation reports were key advocacy and fundraising tools used by humanitarian professionals, diplomats and politicians. Stories from the field were featured on
OCHA’s website and social media networks,
informing the public and the world’s decision
makers about the people OCHA serves.

New York, USA
In 2016, ERC
Stephen O’Brien
spoke forcefully in
raising awareness
on the protection
of civilians trapped
in humanitarian
emergencies.
Credit: OCHA/Paolo
Palmero

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

16

CORE FUNCTIONS

COORDINATION

Danamadja, Chad
An OCHA staff
member at a local
market in a returnee
site. In 2016,
internal and regional
political, military
and socioeconomic
challenges
continued
to generate
vulnerability and
suffering for
millions of Chadians.
Credit: OCHA/Naomi
Frerotte

Under the leadership of the ERC, OCHA
is mandated by the UN General Assembly
to coordinate humanitarian action. OCHA
brings together international and national
humanitarian actors to ensure that the needs
of crisis-affected people are met. By effectively coordinating humanitarian action, OCHA
improves the efficiency and coherence of the
collective response, making it more predictable, transparent and accountable.

continuously engages with a range of multi-stakeholders, including Member States, national militaries and non-State armed groups.
OCHA continues to strengthen leadership
in countries in crisis, working closely with
IASC partners to ensure that HCs have the
appropriate knowledge and competencies
before they are appointed, and that they are
supported throughout their appointments.

At the global level, OCHA leads collective
decision-making on international humanitarian action and policies through the ERC’s
chairmanship of the Inter-Agency Standing
Committee (IASC)—a global humanitarian
forum of UN agencies, NGOs, other international humanitarian organizations and ICRC/
IFRC. OCHA serves as the secretariat of the
IASC and some of its subsidiary bodies, such
as the IASC Working Group and the Emergency Directors Group (EDG), and it works
to increase the accountability of leadership for
humanitarian action in ongoing field operations. To facilitate these operations, OCHA

In countries in crisis, OCHA plays a central
role in the operational coordination of humanitarian action. It supports the United
Nations Resident Coordinator (RC)/HC to
ensure that the Humanitarian Country Team
(HCT) represents the humanitarian community, includes local actors where possible and
is empowered to provide strategic direction
to humanitarian action in that country. In
support of the HC, and as a HCT member,
OCHA ensures that adapted coordination
platforms are established at the national and
subnational levels to support the smooth flow
of operational information between human-

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

CORE FUNCTIONS

itarian actors, local authorities, development
actors and others. OCHA leads the inter-cluster/inter-sector meetings at the national and
subnational levels to support coherent collective humanitarian action.
In support of the humanitarian programme
cycle (HPC), OCHA leads the coordination of
joint assessments and analysis of the severity
of needs, and it prepares the Humanitarian
Needs Overview (HNO). On the basis of this
needs analysis, OCHA leads the joint strategic
response planning process on behalf of the
HC and HCT and prepares a consolidated
Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP), which is
evidence based and prioritized. Throughout
the implementation of the collective response,
OCHA supports the joint monitoring of the
humanitarian situation, needs and response,
and it works to ensure that response planning
is informed by this analysis. As part of the
HPC, OCHA coordinates, on behalf of the
system, the undertaking of inter-agency humanitarian evaluations (IAHEs), which assess
the implementation and results of the collec-

tive humanitarian response to large crises.
IAHEs are an important component of the
cycle to ensure accountability and learning.
To minimize the impact of unforeseen emergencies, OCHA works with national Governments, regional bodies and other agencies to
increase actors’ readiness to rapidly respond
when disaster strikes. Through its regional
and country offices, OCHA supports emergency response preparedness at the country
level by ensuring that basic preparedness
measures have been implemented. It also
provides tools such as contingency planning,
hazard mapping and early warning reports.
To be prepared for rapid response in a suddenonset emergency, OCHA manages emergency response mechanisms to quickly mobilize
humanitarian professionals with the relevant
skills and experience when needed. It deploys
inter-agency UNDAC teams to work with
local authorities to coordinate humanitarian
actors, support emergency needs assessments,
and liaise between civil and military actors.
OCHA also engages with a broad range of
actors, particularly regional organizations,
international and national NGO networks,
donors, the private sector, diaspora networks and other actors, to strengthen their
involvement and participation in humanitarian response.
OCHA supports the creation of national
NGO networks to enhance coordination and
promote the role of these first responders in
humanitarian response, while offering training on essential tools and processes to enable
their full engagement in the humanitarian
system. Similarly, OCHA works closely with
regional organizations and diasporas to contribute to response readiness.

17

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

18

CORE FUNCTIONS

HUMANITARIAN FINANCING

$713M

ALLOCATED
BY CBPFs

$439M

ALLOCATED
BY CERF

1
At current levels,
this would translate
to almost $2 billion
per year

OCHA has continuously improved the management of the funds, leading to gains in efficiency, accountability, transparency and risk
management. In line with Grand Bargain
commitments made at the WHS, transaction
costs for pooled funds were lowered, with
a reduction of UN Secretariat Programme
Support Costs from 3 to 2 per cent. OCHA
worked with donors to develop a Common
Performance Framework for CBPFs to measCountry-Based Pooled Funds (CBPFs) are ure performance at country and global levels.
an OCHA funding mechanism. Since 1997, This will be introduced in 2017.
OCHA has managed these funds to bolster aid
operations in 27 of the world’s most severe OCHA’s global funding mechanism, CERF,
and complex humanitarian crises, allocating has proven to be a time-critical enabler of
more than $5 billion to relief organizations humanitarian assistance since its creation in
delivering life-saving assistance for millions 2005. CERF receives voluntary contributions
from donors into a single fund, with a $450
of the most vulnerable people.
million annual funding target. This money
CBPFs have become a significant component is set aside for immediate use at the onset
to the humanitarian community’s ability to of emergencies, in rapidly deteriorating sitdeliver principled, coordinated and more uations and in protracted crises that fail to
effective aid. Funding channelled through attract sufficient resources. Since 2006, CERF
CBPFs has more than doubled over the past has received more than $4.5 billion from 126
decade, from $287 million in 2006 to a re- UN Member States and observers, regional
cord $704 million in 2016. The UN Secre- and local governments, and private donors.
tary-General has called on donors to increase
funding to CBPFs to 15 per cent of HRP re- In emergencies, UN humanitarian organizations apply jointly for funding that is
quirements by 2018.1
immediately released if the proposals meet
CBPFs have empowered humanitarian lead- CERF’s criteria, i.e., the needs are urgent and
ership, giving HCs the ability to directly sup- the proposed activities will save lives. With
port humanitarian operations. They have im- money available immediately, humanitarian
proved inclusivity by involving a wider range organizations can deliver food, safe drinking
of partners in strategic prioritization and water, medical supplies and other life-saving
programming processes, and making funds aid faster and more efficiently.
directly available to national and international NGOs, UN agencies and Red Cross/Red In December 2016, the UN General AssemCrescent organizations. CBPFs are the largest bly endorsed an expansion of CERF to $1
source of directly accessible funding for na- billion per year by 2018 to ensure that the
tional NGOs, amounting to $129 million in Fund can respond to the world’s dramatically
2016 compared with $74.4 million in 2015. In increasing needs.
volatile contexts, where programmatic focus
and priorities shift rapidly, CBPFs’ flexible The ERC manages CERF on behalf of
funding has enabled partners to innovate and the Secretary-General. The CERF Advitailor solutions to specific challenges.
sory Group provides policy guidance to
the Secretary-General on the use and impact of the Fund.

As part of its humanitarian financing efforts,
OCHA organizes high-level pledging conferences for priority crises to highlight funding
needs, and it provides a platform for donors
to announce pledges to enable a well-funded
humanitarian response. In a humanitarian
crisis, humanitarian actors in the field can
immediately provide life-saving assistance
using OCHA-managed pooled funds.

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

CORE FUNCTIONS

19

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT

Since 2014, OCHA’s information strategy
has aimed to improve key information and
communications technology (ICT) services
for staff and management, and to provide
better information services for humanitarian partners. In 2016, OCHA continued to
improve field Internet connectivity, support
ICT in field offices and deploy emergency
ICT equipment. Data analytics and business
intelligence for corporate decision-making
were strengthened, and they informed the
change management process.

OCHA updated the Financial Tracking Service (FTS), offering a more user-friendly online service that reflects complex aid flows,
such as multi-year or pass-through funding.
It also continued to develop other information services intending to support the HPC,
such as the field-tested Response Planning
Module, which enables collaboration around
the development of a HRP. To help track and
better evaluate private sector contributions,
OCHA also developed a guide to evaluate
in-kind private sector contributions.

OCHA is streamlining web services, starting with ReliefWeb, to make relevant information easier to find for end users. The
ReliefWeb Crises mobile application helped
to integrate and provide access to specialized
content from multiple sources and to gain
comprehensive understanding of a crisis.

At the field level, OCHA offices published
core information products in support of improved situational analyses to provide critical and timely information to stakeholders
and the public on humanitarian emergencies.
These products, which include flash updates,
situation reports, bulletins, dashboards and
snapshots, bring together data and analyIn 2016, the Humanitarian Data Exchange ses from the humanitarian spectrum so that
team focused on speeding up the flow of data decision makers receive a full picture of the
across partner systems, from data collection current situation and trends. These humanto implementation, through the use of stand- itarian analyses strengthened effective and
ard and improved workflows.
efficient decision-making and coordination.

The new website for
OCHA’s Financial
Tracking Service
now offers an
improved user
experience

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

20

CORE FUNCTIONS

In 2016, OCHA also strengthened field data,
trend and contextual analysis by improving
information products, content management
work flows, information services, training
and information management (IM) capacity.
The third annual Index for Risk Management
(INFORM) was published, providing data
and analysis on humanitarian crisis risks for
all Member States. The INFORM partnership
expanded its work at the subnational level,
managing risk models for Central Asia and
the Caucuses, Colombia, the Horn of Africa,
Latin America and the Caribbean, Lebanon
and the Sahel.

Bangkok, Thailand
OCHA and partners
attend IMPACT in
March 2016.
Credit: OCHA/Joel
Opulencia

In line with the Senior Management Teamendorsed Information Strategy 2013-2017,
OCHA’s digital services approach was revised
in 2016 and tailored to available resources.
This saw a prioritization of new funding to
information services that support the HPC,
notably for the completion and launch of the
new FTS. In parallel, existing resources were
used to strengthen OCHA’s shared-services
technology architecture and to start work
on rationalizing key information platforms
and services.

The Rationalization of Humanitarian Response and ReliefWeb initiative was launched
OCHA completed an intensive cycle of IM to better support OCHA’s operations by ratraining, with nearly 90 per cent of the or- tionalizing and improving how it managganization’s 160 IM field staff attending one es and delivers humanitarian content to its
of five Information Management Prepared- global audience and operational partners.
ness and Coordination Training (IMPACT) The initiative will also make greater use of
events. The training aimed to update OCHA’s ReliefWeb and its advanced content system
IM field staff on current policy, practice, tools and curation team.
and services that support situational awareness, which will allow them to excel in their
functions in country offices.

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

CORE FUNCTIONS

21

POLICY

OCHA’s policy work provides the strategic
direction to ensure that humanitarian action is forward looking, adaptive, effective
and principled.
Within a constantly changing humanitarian
environment, OCHA’s policy function provides thought leadership by anticipating and
analysing emerging trends, as well as challenges and gaps, in effective humanitarian
action. Working with partners, OCHA serves
as an incubator by developing innovative and
forward-looking concepts and strategies. It
addresses gaps and trends in order to keep
humanitarian action adaptive and principled,
improve its effectiveness and initiate transformative processes and guidance.
OCHA’s policy function also helps to advance and strengthen the normative framework for humanitarian action, including
its implementation and its support to policy in action. The policy function supports
Member States as an adviser and facilitator
in intergovernmental processes in the Security Council and the General Assembly, and
during ECOSOC negotiations. It also promotes, advances and strengthens effective
and principled humanitarian action through
the various mandated reports it drafts on
behalf of the Secretary-General on natural
disasters, the strengthening of coordination
and the protection of civilians, and through
its products (reference guides, aides memoire)
that assist Member States and partners in
their deliberations on issues including international humanitarian law (IHL), protection,
principles and legal instruments.
OCHA’s policy function offers authoritative,
predictable and coherent thematic field advice to inform the decision-making of the
ERC, and at the regional and country level,
on issues such as humanitarian principles,
IHL, the protection of civilians, IDPs, access,
resilience and integration. Policy offers operational partners, the ERC and the broader
humanitarian community advice and knowledge on system-wide relevant topics based

on its expertise, repository of policy guidelines, norms, and a collection of best practices
and lessons learned. OCHA’s policy products
include flagship studies on system-wide issues, with recommendations and guidance
on moving policy into action.

The policy function also promotes change
through networks and initiatives, such as
the Global Humanitarian Policy Forum, the
ECOSOC Humanitarian Affairs Segment, the
Dialogue for Humanitarian Partnership and,
most recently, PACT.

New York, USA
To mark the twentyfifth anniversary
of GA resolution
46/182, the 2016
Global Humanitarian
Policy Forum
brought together
more than 100
experts from
Member States,
UN agencies, local
and international
NGOs, academia
and the private
sector for technical
discussions. The
event maintained
the spirit of the
multi-stakeholder
approach of the
WHS.
Credit: OCHA/
Charlotte Cans

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon with Heads of State and
Government during the World Humanitarian Summit.
Credit: UN Photo/Eskinder Debebe

World Humanitarian Summit
In 2016, the extraordinary level of humanitarian need
generated an unprecedented call to action to end human
suffering. For the first time in its 70-year history, the United
Nations organized a World Humanitarian Summit (WHS)
to mark a major shift in how the international community
prepares for and responds to crises. The Secretary-General
tasked OCHA to organize the Summit, which was generously hosted by the Government of Turkey.
In the lead-up to the Summit, OCHA and partners organized
a series of regional, thematic and online consultations that
gathered the views of more than 23,000 people and helped
identify the most pressing changes that are required. These
priorities were brought together in the then Secretary-General’s report for the Summit, One Humanity: Shared Responsibility. In the report’s annex, the Secretary-General put
forward the Agenda for Humanity, which lays out five Core
Responsibilities to reduce human suffering from crises and
24 transformations to help achieve them. This became the
guiding basis for the Summit and beyond.
On 23 and 24 May 2016, the WHS brought together 9,000
participants to galvanize action and commitments to
address the pressing humanitarian challenges causing
so much suffering in the world. Representatives from 180
Member States, including 55 Heads of State and Government, hundreds of private sector representatives, and
thousands of people from civil society and NGOs, gathered in Turkey’s largest city, Istanbul, to commit to action and change.

At the Summit’s seven high-level round tables, senior
Government representatives and representatives of civil
society and the private sector discussed critical issues of
the Agenda for Humanity and made concrete policy, legal
and operational commitments to advance them. New initiatives and alliances were launched at 15 special sessions,
and the world’s best technological partners and innovators
participated in an innovation fair on cutting-edge solutions.
A total of 132 side events were organized by participants
from a broad range of humanitarian stakeholders, including
Member States, resilient communities, international, national and regional organizations, NGOs, diaspora communities, faith-based organizations, the private sector, academia and others.
The Summit generated huge support and momentum for
the changes called for in the Agenda for Humanity. Stakeholders made more than 3,500 commitments and launched
dozens of new partnerships and initiatives to take forward
the Core Responsibilities. To sustain the spirit of collaboration, these were brought together on the Platform for Action,
Commitments and Transformations, which will serve as a
dynamic space to report on progress, showcase results and
build on the momentum. The Summit was the starting point
for concrete changes in the way the international community works with partners to address humanitarian need, risk
and vulnerability.

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Connecting Business initiative
The Agenda for Humanity, the Sendai Framework and the
Sustainable Development Goals all emphasize the need for
the systematic engagement of the private sector. Therefore,
Governments, civil society, international organizations and
the private sector joined forces to launch the Connecting
Business initiative (CBi) at the WHS in 2016. CBi is recognized as the primary mechanism for private sector engagement in disaster risk reduction, emergency preparedness,
response and recovery in the Secretary-General’s report on
WHS outcomes. The initiative is implemented by UNDP and
OCHA with technical advice from UNISDR.
CBi engages the private sector before, during and after
emergencies, increasing the scale and effectiveness of
business engagement. It strengthens and supports private
sector networks, providing guidance and catalytic investments to scale and replicate effective structures at national
and regional levels. It provides a clear entry point for the
private sector through the CBi Global Portal, sharing leading
practice, facilitating collaborative action, and connecting
global and local actors.
By the end of 2016, CBi worked with 10 member networks
globally, with plans to expand to 40 by 2020.

Platform for
Action, Commitments
and Transformations
The Agenda for Humanity’s Platform for Action, Commitments
and Transformation (PACT – www.agendaforhumanity.org)
was launched in September 2016 to sustain the spirit of
collaboration demonstrated at the WHS, and to ensure continued progress in the advancement of the Agenda. PACT is
a dynamic advocacy tool for all stakeholders in their efforts
to advance the Agenda and the commitments made at the
Summit, and to foster new commitments and partnerships.
The online platform displays individual and joint commitments, alignments with core commitments, and some
of the major initiatives launched during the WHS. It also
provides a voluntary self-reporting mechanism, allowing
stakeholders to submit reports on progress in implementing commitments. Users can search for commitments and
reports by transformations in the Agenda for Humanity,
initiatives launched and cross-cutting issues (e.g., cash,
gender, disaster risk reduction). Through PACT, users can
also learn more about the Agenda for Humanity and the
various initiatives, partnerships and alliances launched, and
read success stories of how stakeholders are turning their
commitments into action.

AGENDA FOR HUMANITY
5 CORE RESPONSIBILITIES

#1 Prevent and
end conflicts

#3 Leave no
one behind

#2 Respect rules
of war

#4 Working differently
to end need

#5 Invest in humanity

The Agenda for
Humanity’s 5 Core
Responsibilities

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

24

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

The first goal of OCHA’s 2014-2017 Strategic Plan is to ensure that the needs of crisis-affected people are met through more
effective and principled humanitarian action
in the field.

Jérémie, Haiti
Following Hurricane
Matthew, an
Emergency Directors
Group visits severely
affected Jérémie
to assess needs
and scale up the
humanitarian
response with local
and international
partners on the
ground.
Credit: OCHA/Rébar
Jaff

In line with the recommendations stemming
from the WHS, OCHA ensures that coordination is effective at the subnational level,
including the participation of NGOs and local
actors, to better engage with affected people
and to respond to their priority needs. It adTo achieve this goal, OCHA works with part- vocates sufficient humanitarian financing
ners to ensure that humanitarian action is led that is predictable, timely and allocated based
by empowered, competent and experienced on these priority needs. In many countries,
professionals, and that the HC and the HCT OCHA manages CBPFs, which incentivize
members are supported with the information, the wider inclusion of humanitarian partadvice and analysis they need to make the key ners in coordination mechanisms and funding
strategic decisions required. OCHA provides decision-making processes, while also enkey situational awareness and information hancing the opportunity for NGOs, including
to stakeholders, including the public, on the local NGOs, to access funding in line with
humanitarian situation by developing a com- commitments under the Grand Bargain to
pelling contextual analysis and a coordinated ensure more support and funding tools for
and common narrative of needs with data.
first responders.
OCHA leads the process to establish a joint
understanding of humanitarian needs, and
it brings together response actors to develop joint strategic plans. OCHA ensures that
the in-country coordination mechanisms
are adapted to each context. It also leads inter-cluster coordination to support the effective and coherent delivery of humanitarian assistance.

By preparing for a disaster before it strikes,
OCHA can help minimize the loss of life and
suffering and other related costs. Globally,
OCHA manages international emergency
response mechanisms, such as UNDAC and
the International Search and Rescue Advisory Group (INSARAG) to guarantee rapid
capacity to respond to new disasters. OCHA’s
field offices support the emergency response
readiness capacity, including with national
actors, by developing contingency plans and
by taking a diverse set of actors through each
step of the preparedness process.

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

25

LEVEL 3 EMERGENCY RESPONSE

was established in Erbil. The HOC served to
strengthen coordination between humanitarIn 2016, military operations intensified to ian clusters, emergency response managers,
retake areas under the control of ISIL. Nearly civil-military coordination, UN Mine Action
700,000 people were newly displaced, includ- Services and the NGO community, ensuring
ing in major military operations in Ramadi resources are easily accessible to all humaniin February and Fallujah in June. Some 3 tarian responders. The HOC established a sysmillion Iraqis were internally displaced, living tem of zone coordinators to provide holistic
in 3,700 locations across the country. Iraq’s support and help allocate resources to areas
Kurdistan Region hosted more than 1 million of greatest need. It provides a liaison funcIraqi IDPs and refugees from neighbouring tion with Government and local inter-cluster
countries. Another 1.5 million people had coordination structures, and it maintains a
returned to retaken areas, where many con- direct reporting line to the HC.
tinue to depend on assistance.
The two OCHA-coordinated and highly priIraq had been an active IASC System-Wide oritized appeal documents for 2016 helped to
Level Three Emergency since 2014. However, raise a significant amount of humanitarian
the humanitarian crisis escalated further on funding. The 2016 HRP received 84 per cent,
17 October 2016, with the start of military or $725 million, of the $861 million requested.
operations to retake the city of Mosul. At The Mosul Flash Appeal, launched in July to
that time, it was estimated that between 1.2 ensure humanitarian partners could prepare
million and 1.5 million Iraqis were living in for the humanitarian fallout of military operthe affected area, and contingency planning ations, received 97 per cent, or $277 million,
estimated that up to 1 million people might of the $284 million requested. The IHPF alflee the fighting in a worst-case scenario. But located $88.3 million, supporting 55 partners
by the end of 2016, most of the territory on and 135 projects.
the eastern bank of the Tigris had been recaptured, more than 121,000 people had been
displaced from Mosul and conditions were
rapidly deteriorating in remaining ISIL-held
areas, primarily in western Mosul.
Iraq

In an extremely challenging operating environment, with ongoing conflict, largescale displacement and simultaneous mass
returns, OCHA Iraq continued to provide
vital coordination services, including support to the HC and HCT, field coordination,
civil-military coordination, humanitarian
planning, management of the Iraq Humanitarian Pooled Fund (IHPF), communications,
response monitoring and reporting. In 2016,
assistance was coordinated to reach some
5.8 million people through 155 humanitarian organizations. To provide a dedicated
coordination hub for the Mosul response,
including in newly accessible areas close to
the front lines, the OCHA-managed Humanitarian Operations Centre for Mosul (HOC)

Coordination demands in the Iraq context
are high and complex: in 2016, the operation involved engagement with the national
Government and the Kurdish regional governments, 10 governorates, 11 ministries, 2
Government coordination centres, multiple
security forces, armed groups and religious
endowments, 150 NGO partners, 13 UN
agencies and more than 66 Member States
active through the Counter-ISIL Coalition.

Akré, Iraq
A displaced YezidiKurdish child from
Sinjar living in
Mamilyan IDP camp
in Akré, Duhok
Governorate, Iraq.
Some 13,000 IDPs,
mostly Yezidi Kurds,
live in this camp.
Credit: OCHA/Giles
Clarke

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

26

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Humanitarian partners work with 18 separate coordination bodies between the two
Government structures. The HCT and Inter-Cluster Coordination Group are split between the capital, Baghdad, and the regional
capital, Erbil.

Busia, Uganda
A South Sudanese
boy holds his
brother during
registration
procedures in
the city of Busia.
Uganda took in just
under 400,000 South
Sudanese refugees
in 2016, as armed
conflict spread fear
and uncertainty in
the world’s youngest
country.
Credit: UNHCR/
Alessandro Penso

OCHA contributed significantly to the scaleup of humanitarian operations, coordinating
the response to major outbreaks of violence,
including in Malakal and Pibor in February,
Wau in February and June, Juba in July, and
key hotspots in the Equatorias in the latter
half of the year. In addition to being based
in Juba, OCHA South Sudan maintained a
subnational presence in Bentiu, Bor, Kuajok,
Malakal, Mingkaman, Rumbek and Wau.

Given the complexity of the humanitarian
situation, OCHA South Sudan stepped up
its efforts to promote the centrality of protection in the humanitarian response in 2016,
and it continued to engage with the United
Nations Mission in the Republic of South
Sudan (UNMISS) to promote the mission’s
robust and proactive Protection of Civilians
South Sudan
activities. OCHA South Sudan intensified
operational access negotiations as the conflict
The South Sudan crisis deepened and spread spread, facilitating collective humanitarian
in 2016, with fighting engulfing previously response in hard-to-reach areas, including
stable areas, and food insecurity and mal- south of Mundri, outside Wau town, and
nutrition escalating to unprecedented levels. in central and southern Unity. OCHA also
The eruption of clashes in the capital, Juba, engaged in high-level dialogue to urge parin July 2016 preceded mass displacement in ties to the conflict to ensure free, safe and
multiple locations, and there were reports of unhindered humanitarian access.
grave violations against civilians, including
sexual violence.
OCHA South Sudan revised the thresholds
and content of inter-agency rapid needs asIn addition to rising needs, humanitarians sessments, enhancing the availability of emwere faced with an increasingly difficult and pirical data to inform the response, and it
dangerous operating environment. Follow- improved the availability of real-time data
ing the outbreak of conflict in Juba in July on internal displacement, working closely
2016, there was a spike in humanitarian ac- with partners.
cess challenges. Twenty-four aid workers
were killed in 2016, more than 1,100 aid
workers were relocated due to active hos- Syria
tilities and insecurity, and aid supplies were
In 2016, protracted fighting and human rights
looted in 71 incidents.
and IHL violations—compounded with mass
Despite these challenges, more than 5.1 displacement, injuries and loss of life—conmillion people received assistance in 2016. tinued to cause immense human suffering
OCHA ensured robust prioritization of the for the 13.5 million people in need across
HRP, and it supported system-wide resource the country. Warring parties continued to
mobilization, leading to the appeal being 92 block and impose constraints on humaniper cent funded—the highest level of any L3 tarian access, failing to lift sieges, end the
indiscriminate targeting of civilians and cior corporate emergency.

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

27

vilian objects, or provide rapid, safe, unhin- OCHA Jordan (Amman) acts as secretaridered, unconditional and sustained access to at to the Cross-Border Task Force, which
all people in need.
is the senior strategic and decision-making
body for southern Syria under the RC/HC’s
Throughout 2016, the UN and its humani- stewardship. OCHA Jordan also provides
tarian partners in Syria and across its borders civil-military coordination support between
reached an estimated 11.2 million people in the Jordanian Armed Forces and humanitarneed. On average, some 6.2 million people ian actors involved in providing assistance
were reached on a monthly basis. Despite to Syrians stranded at the berm, on Jordan’s
multiple challenges, 2016 saw an increase in north-eastern border.
assistance reaching people in besieged and
hard-to-reach locations, with an average of OCHA Lebanon supports the RC/HC’s en288,000 people reached monthly with some deavour to ensure a coherent and effective
form of humanitarian assistance in besieged humanitarian response to people in need in
locations and 558,000 in hard-to-reach locations. OCHA supported the humanitarian community in Syria to deliver assistance
through various modalities, such as regular
programming, cross-line and cross-border
operations and air drops.
OCHA’s Syria crisis response takes a Whole
of Syria approach, combining the efforts of
offices in Amman, Beirut, Damascus and Gaziantep with a Regional Office for the Syria Crisis into a single coordinated response.
OCHA Syria (Damascus) works to ensure improved effectiveness on the response inside
Syria, including through effective intersector
operational coordination, and by supporting
the HC, HCT and intersector coordination
group. The office also supports improved
humanitarian access and leads the planning
and deployment of inter-agency convoys to
besieged and hard-to-reach locations.
OCHA Turkey (Gaziantep) supports the wider humanitarian community through coordination, IM support, and regular reporting
and analysis. On the operational front, OCHA
Turkey conducts advocacy and negotiation
with non-State armed groups (NSAGs) for
access and the promotion of IHL, facilitating
contact with NSAGs and humanitarian partners. The office also supports partners with
clarifying NGO registration and operational
rules in Turkey.

Lebanon and the centrality of protection in
humanitarian action within the context of
the Syrian crisis. The offices also have a focal
point based in Beirut for coordination with
NGOs working cross border from Lebanon.
The Regional Office for the Syria Crisis (Amman) provides services and convening functions to support the humanitarian leadership
for Syria, the four OCHA country offices and
humanitarian partners in Iraq, Jordan, Syria
and Turkey, acting as a sub-regional hub for
technical support to enhance aid effectiveness
and accountability for the Syria response. In
addition, the regional office provides day-today oversight of the OCHA Whole of Syria
Dohuk cell in Iraq. In 2016, the CBPFs allocated $48.5 million in Syria, $26 million in
Lebanon, $94 million in Turkey and $11.1
million in Jordan.

Jibreen, Syria
Children staying in a
large warehouse in
Jibreen village. The
warehouse is used
to shelter displaced
families from
eastern Aleppo.
Credit: UNICEF/
Rzehak

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

28

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Yemen

Sa’ada, Yemen
A student at Aal
Okab school stands
in the ruins of a
classroom that was
targeted in a June
2015 air strike

The conflict between the Government of
Yemen and allied Saudi Arabian-Led Coalition security forces and the Houthi/General People’s Congress continued throughout
2016. The front lines did not change significantly during the year, but Taizz Governorate in particular was contested, and active
ground fighting made the regular delivery
of humanitarian goods to Taizz city challenging. The country remained a Level 3
emergency response throughout 2016, and
OCHA supported a newly appointed HC in
making progress against the Level 3 emergency response benchmarks. The operational
environment improved compared with 2015,
and OCHA maintained offices in Aden, Amman, Ibb, Hudaydah, Sa’adah and Sana’a. In
Riyadh, OCHA also supported the Deconfliction Liaison Team.

hold items to more than 500,000 displaced
people. The Yemen Humanitarian Fund allocated nearly $100 million, and CERF provided $15 million to support urgent needs,
such as those related to the cholera outbreak.

OCHA coordinated assistance to more than
5.6 million people, with nearly 4 million people receiving food assistance every month. It
also coordinated the provision of safe drinking water to more than 1.2 million people,
medicine and supplies for 1.3 million people,
the treatment of 530,000 cases of acute malnutrition and the delivery of essential house-

The protracted conflict affected livelihoods
and services. As a result, the World Bank
and the UN developed joint programming,
focusing on Yemen’s most vulnerable areas
to ensure the survivability of basic services
and the provision of emergency livelihoods
support to the most vulnerable people.

In May 2016, an Emergency Directors Group
team travelled to Yemen to assess support
requirements. It noted that significant additional support was required to ensure adequate response capacity, especially across
subnational hubs, and it later informed IASC
Principals to extend the Level 3 emergency
response activation. In October, the ERC
visited Sana’a and Hudaydah, witnessing the
challenges faced by health facilities and the
impact of restrictions imposed by the parties
caused by conflict-related damage to Yemen’s
main port in Hudaydah.

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

29

CORPORATE EMERGENCIES

Haiti and Hurricane Matthew

Category 4 Hurricane Matthew, which struck
Haiti on 4 October, affected more than 2.1
million people, mainly in the southern Departments of Grand’Anse, Nippes and Sud.
As this was the first new crisis following
the WHS, OCHA increased the effectiveness and efficiency of the humanitarian response through the key commitments of the
Grand Bargain.
OCHA declared a corporate emergency in
order to quickly scale up the response and
strengthen its country office capacity through
surge deployments. An UNDAC team was
pre-deployed to Haiti ahead of the hurricane to reinforce national and local systems.
Rapid assessments ascertained the impact of
the devastating hurricane and shaped the response, and OCHA deployed a DHC and additional OCHA emergency response capacity.
OCHA supported the HCT and the Government-led response entity, the Department of
Civil Protection (DPC), to agree on the coordination strategy and immediate response
priorities. Under the leadership of national
and departmental authorities, intersectoral
coordination was established to ensure coherence of activities and avoid duplication
of efforts. To move field coordination and
response closer to the most affected areas and
people, OCHA set up two coordination hubs
in Jérémie (Grand’Anse) and Les Cayes (Sud).

deployed dedicated capacity for community
engagement and ensured that the Humanitarian Information Service (led by Internews)
was integrated into coordination structures
to ensure that feedback from affected communities informed decision-making. OCHA
advocated a smooth transition from relief
to recovery and sought donor funding of
resilience activities to help bridge the gap
to development.

In addition to coordinating response to the
hurricane, OCHA Haiti worked throughout 2016 to raise awareness and funding
for persistent humanitarian issues, such as
the cholera epidemic, the vulnerability of
Haitians returning from the Dominican
Republic, food insecurity, and the need for
disaster preparedness and response. To address these needs, OCHA coordinated the
development of an HRP in early 2016, requesting $193.8 million, targeting 1.3 million
people of the 2.1 million people who needed
assistance (20 per cent of the country’s popIn coordination with the Government and ulation). OCHA prepared key information
humanitarian partners, OCHA supported products to highlight the cholera epidemthe HCT to launch a Flash Appeal for $120 ic, food security and Hurricane Matthew
million (revised to $139 million) to meet the to enhance coordination to the response.
most urgent humanitarian needs of 750,000 OCHA seconded three staff members to propeople. CERF provided $10.3 million to ad- vide technical capacity in coordination, comdress hurricane-related needs, as well as a munication and information management
loan of $8 million to UNICEF to scale up the to the DPC. At the request of the Haitian
response to a spike in cholera cases.
Ministry of Interior, OCHA also facilitated
collaboration with the National Emergency
OCHA encouraged non-conditional and mul- Commission of the Dominican Republic to
tisectoral cash coordination and deployed ensure a coordinated joint response to fudedicated cash-coordination capacity. It also ture disasters.

South-west Haiti
People cross a
flooded river with
the help of a rope
and porters after a
bridge was washed
away. Hurricane
Matthew hit Haiti on
4 October 2016.
Credit: UN
MINUSTAH/Logan
Abassi

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

30

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

El Niño

The 2015-2016 El Niño was one of the
strongest in recorded history. It severely
affected the lives and livelihoods of more
than 60 million people, especially in East and

Dinsoor (Bay
Region), Somalia:
A birds-eye
view from a UN
Humanitarian Air
Service aircraft
shows the severe
impact of drought in
the region.
Credit: Giles Clarke

Southern Africa, Central America and the
Pacific. Twenty-three countries appealed for
international humanitarian assistance at a total cost of more than $5 billion. There is still
room to improve the timeliness of the global
response to future episodes, but with OCHA’s
efforts, the response was mobilized earlier
and at a greater scale than in any previous
episode. OCHA field offices played a critical
role in raising the alarm among humanitarian
partners and leading El Niño-related preparedness and response work, supporting
the development of appeals and facilitating
a coordinated and effective response.
In many contexts, OCHA proactively supported more effective collaboration and coordination with development partners, including by supporting more joint analysis
and advocating more collective and coherent
programming. Globally, CERF was one of
the quickest and largest supporters of early
humanitarian action, allocating nearly $61
million to 13 countries affected by El Niño:
Angola, Djibouti, Fiji, Guatemala, Lesotho,
Madagascar, Mongolia, Mozambique, Papua New Guinea, Somalia, Swaziland, Timor-Leste and Vietnam.

ing regular inter-agency El Niño meetings,
bringing together UN and non-UN humanitarian partners, UNDP, the World Bank,
the World Meteorological Organization
and an inter-agency subgroup focused on
communication and advocacy to agree on
common messaging and to support resource
mobilization.
OCHA organized or co-organized regular
high-level events in Geneva, New York and
Rome to raise the profile of El Niño’s impact
and related needs to mobilize greater support
for the response. It maintained an El Niño
information hub through www.unocha.org/
el-nino to act as a one-stop shop for information from various organizations and from
around the world.
OCHA also produced a series of analytical information products at the global, regional and
national levels, including a monthly global
overview with the latest forecasts and information on the humanitarian impact, needs
and response. From May to December 2016,
OCHA hosted the inter-agency secretariat for
the Secretary-General’s Special Envoys on El
Niño and Climate. As part of this mandate,
OCHA supported a number of field visits as
well as donor capital visits, which highlighted
the broader El Niño and climate issue.
OCHA facilitated the development of the
Special Envoys’ Blueprint for Action for atrisk Governments on how to adapt national
development plans to prevent El Niño episodes from becoming a humanitarian crisis.

OCHA also co-led a process to develop inter-agency standard operating procedures
(SOPs) to support earlier action to future El
Niño episodes. This involves outlining a set
of actions that development and humanitarian organizations commit to take on within
agreed timelines when early warning signs
OCHA supported an unprecedented glob- indicate an elevated probability of an event.
al coordination of the response by conven-

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

31

Ethiopia

In 2016, OCHA Ethiopia supported the Government-led response to one of the largest
droughts to hit the country in decades. At the
peak of the drought, more than 10.2 million
people were targeted for assistance.
Successful early warning and early action defined the humanitarian response in 2016. In
late 2015, OCHA prepared an early warning
document on the El Niño-driven drought on
behalf of the HCT. Throughout 2016, OCHA
continued to inform partners of changing humanitarian needs and the deteriorating context. This included releasing two statements
highlighting the priorities to complement the
2016 Humanitarian Requirements Document
(HRD), prepared jointly with the HCT and
the Government. The year concluded with
another early warning document, raising
the alarm of a new drought in southern and
eastern Ethiopia. The document preceded
the launch of the 2017 HRD and allowed
partners to recalibrate the response to the
newly affected areas.
OCHA’s partnership with the Government’s
Disaster Risk Management Commission
(NDRMC) on behalf of the HCT was key to
a successful humanitarian response, as identified by a lesson-learning exercise in late
2016. OCHA began to co-chair the federal
Disaster Risk Management Technical Working Group meetings with NDRMC in 2016,
strengthening the HCT’s interaction with
Government counterparts. By liaising closely with NDRMC, OCHA regularly updated
joint Government-HCT messaging to donors.
OCHA also supported the HC in her engagement with high-level Government officials.
Throughout the year, OCHA worked with
the Government and the HCT to improve
the evidence base to inform decision-making
on humanitarian operations and resource
mobilization. This included support for the
Government-led, inter-agency biannual
needs assessments that informed the 2016

HRD and its midyear review, and launching a
new methodology for humanitarian response
monitoring to identify the scope of emerging
humanitarian needs.
To support greater effectiveness and accountability of cluster leadership, OCHA convened
HCT, cluster-lead agency and inter-cluster
coordination meetings and identified clusters requiring additional support. All clusters
had dedicated coordinators for the year, but
in instances where certain clusters were underperforming, OCHA advocated with cluster-lead agencies to strengthen the existing
structures. It also advocated with the IASC
Emergency Directors Group to strengthen
cluster leadership and accountability for cluster performance.
When the scale of the crisis became clear in
late 2015, donors contributed nearly $1 billion to the response efforts, complementing
the significant Government contributions.
In addition to preparing early warning documents, OCHA supported resource mobilization by organizing a joint Government-HCT
visit to donor capitals to highlight the Global Call for Support and Action: Responding
to El Niño and a visit by the OCHA Donor
Support Group to El Niño-impacted areas in Ethiopia. The donor interaction was
complemented by high-level advocacy efforts, including a round-table discussion that
OCHA organized in Addis Ababa, with the
participation of the UN Secretary-General, Deputy ERC, Deputy Prime Minister of
Ethiopia, ECHO Commissioner and USAID
Administrator. In May, OCHA supported the

Tigray Region,
Ethiopia
Seed distribution is
carried out during
the meher (summer)
season.
Credit: GOAL/
Anteneh Tadele

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

32

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Government of Ethiopia’s participation at the
WHS, including co-chairing a side event on
the situation in Ethiopia.

Nigeria
Young girls in the
Bama centre in
north-east Nigeria,
which sheltered
some 7,500
displaced people
escaping Boko
Haram insurgents
in 2016.
Credit: UNHCR/
Helene Caux

Ongoing returns added complexity to the humanitarian crisis. More than 1 million IDPs
have returned to their places of origin since
August 2015. However, many remained in
The OCHA-managed Ethiopia Humanitarian the nearest town centre, unable to return to
Fund (EHF) halved its application processing their home villages due to insecurity. They
time in 2016 from two months to 30 days. remain largely dependent on humanitarian
The Fund allocated $75 million for 82 pro- aid. Meanwhile, some 200,000 Nigerians rejects in 2016, making EHF one of the world’s mained refugees in neighbouring Cameroon,
largest CBPFs. The pooled fund gained four Chad and Niger.
new donors in 2016: Australia, Germany,
South Korea and the United States.
Given the complexity of the situation, OCHA
supported the continued deployment of a
OCHA Ethiopia is based in Addis Ababa with DHC in north-east Nigeria along with the
sub-offices in Dire Dawa, Gambella Town, shift of the centre of operations of all humanGode, Hawassa, Jijiga and Semera.
itarian activities from Abuja to Maiduguri,
the epicentre of the crisis. OCHA played a
significant role in establishing effective huNigeria
manitarian coordination structures and infrastructures in the north-east, including the
The humanitarian crisis in north-east Nige- Operational Humanitarian Country Team
ria was among the world’s largest in 2016. and sector working groups in Maiduguri,
Some 14.8 million people in Adamawa, Bor- and humanitarian hubs in Borno state. This
no, Gombe and Yobe states were affected, in- allowed the humanitarian community to rapcluding 7 million people who needed urgent idly scale up humanitarian assistance in the
assistance and 2.2 million IDPs.
highly volatile security environment.

What started as a protection crisis developed
into an urgent food crisis, with thousands of
people on the verge of a famine. An estimated
4.7 million people across Adamawa, Borno,
Gombe and Yobe were severely food insecure
in 2016. The figure was expected to remain
high, with a credible risk of famine in 2017.

OCHA’s coordination efforts with the Nigerian military were of utmost importance in
ensuring and sustaining access to the affected
people in hard-to-reach areas. By the end of
2016, an estimated 700,000 people remained
beyond humanitarian workers’ reach. OCHA
also supported journalists travelling to those
areas to report on and raise global awareness
of this underreported crisis.
OCHA strengthened strategic coordination
with the Government at all levels to help
ensure greater coordination on humanitarian issues between the authorities and the
humanitarian community, which supported
the timely scale up of humanitarian assistance.
OCHA supports humanitarian action in Nigeria through its offices in Abuja, Damaturu, Maiduguri and Yola, and a small presence in Gombe.

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Iraqi IDPs, mainly
from Gogjali on the
eastern outskirts
of Mosul, arrive at
Hasansham camp
within 24 hours of
its opening.
Credit: UNHCR/Ivor
Prickett

33

Level 3 (L3) emergencies and
corporate emergencies
An IASC Humanitarian System-Wide Emergency Response, more commonly referred to as an L3 emergency response, is activated when a humanitarian
situation suddenly and significantly changes and,
following an analysis of five criteria (scale, complexity,
urgency, capacity and reputational risk), it is clear that
the capacity to lead, coordinate and deliver humanitarian assistance and protection on the ground does
not match the scale, complexity and urgency of the
crisis. In coordination with the Inter-Agency Standing
Committee Principals, the Emergency Relief Coordinator designates a crisis a Level 3 emergency response
to mobilize the resources, leadership and capacity of
the humanitarian system. The decision to designate a
Level 3 emergency response depends on key criteria,
including the scale of the emergency, the urgency and
complexity of the needs, the lack of national capacity
to respond and the reputational risk for the humanitarian system. In 2016, OCHA managed and supported
four IASC Level 3 emergency responses in Iraq, South
Sudan, Syria and Yemen.
Corporate emergencies are rapid-onset or rapidly
escalating crises requiring OCHA’s highest level of response. The Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian
Affairs declares a corporate emergency after considering the scale, complexity and urgency of the situation,
as well as OCHA’s capacity to respond in the affected
country and region. Corporate emergencies prompt all
parts of OCHA to prioritize support to the OCHA field
offices involved.

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

34

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

PROTRACTED EMERGENCIES

Higlo village,
Somalia
The rapid spread of
drought has stripped
millions of people
of their means of
survival. This photo
shows livestock
that perished in the
drought.
Credit: UNOCHA/
Cedric Petit

South Sudan, Somalia,
North-East Nigeria and Yemen

In 2016, a combination of escalating violence,
mass displacement, drought and one of the
strongest El Niño events on record led to
widespread food insecurity and humanitarian
needs. In many parts of the world, protracted conflict was the primary driver of food
insecurity, malnutrition and outbreaks of
preventable diseases.

had reached their highest levels since the conflict began in 2013.

In Somalia, successive failures of seasonal
rains worsened drought and stripped millions
of people of their means of survival. Drought
conditions quickly spread to the southern and
central regions and, combined with ongoing
insecurity and conflict, they forced thousands
In Yemen, nearly two years of war left an of people to leave their homes to search for
estimated 18.8 million people in need of hu- food and safety.
manitarian or protection assistance—a 20
per cent increase since 2014. In north-east By the end of 2016, global food insecurity
Nigeria, the eight-year violent conflict exac- showed clear signs of deterioration in South
erbated as the Nigerian Armed Forces took Sudan, Somalia, north-east Nigeria and Yemback areas previously held by Boko Haram, en. The collapse of basic services, endemic
resulting in a food and nutrition crisis for 4.7 food insecurity, destruction of livelihoods,
million people. The violence spilled over to and underdevelopment and conflict increased
neighbouring states and countries in the Lake displacement and led to alarming levels of
Chad Basin, causing a regional crisis with hunger and malnutrition. In these four counmass displacement within and across borders. tries alone, nearly 20 million people were
facing severe food insecurity and the risk of
In South Sudan, fighting between armed famine. Humanitarian partners continued to
actors and intercommunal violence spread carry out large-scale operations throughout
across the country, including to previously the year, but protracted conflict and compeaceful areas. By mid-December, more than promised humanitarian access undermined
3 million South Sudanese had been forced to operations in all four countries.
flee their homes. Food insecurity and disease
Tawilla, North Darfur
OCHA Director of Operations John Ging and Government of Sudan officials
meet staff of the clinic run by Médecins Sans Frontières (Spain), which
provides health-care services for internally displaced persons in Tawilla.
Credit: OCHA/Amy Martin

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

OCHA ensures that
coordination is effective
at the subnational level,
including the participation
of NGOs and local actors.

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

36

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

FIELD OFFICES
Europe, Central Asia and the Caucasus

tion methodology and led to a more coherent
response. The tool is also available through
the KoboCat platform, which enables the
digital collection of data through mobile
phones and tablets.
In line with the Grand Bargain commitments,
OCHA supported the global DFID-funded
preparedness initiative in Afghanistan, aimed
at strengthening the humanitarian community’s readiness to collectively use cash transfers
as part of emergency response, market harmonization, partner capacity enhancement
and strengthening protection.

Afghanistan
Displaced Afghan
children living in the
Bish-Bator camp
wait to receive
psychosocial
assessments and
support. In 2016,
some 661,000
people were newly
displaced around
the country.
Credit: OCHA

Following the 2015 Coordination Architecture Review, the HCT agreed on the use
of a quarterly reporting framework tool for
In 2016, the conflict continued to worsen, cluster-lead agencies to update on progress,
causing 661,000 people to be newly displaced, key concerns and gaps around clusters’ core
the highest annual level of displacement re- functions and deliverables. OCHA’s country
corded to date. Humanitarian needs were office is based in the capital, Kabul, with subfurther compounded by the return of 620,000 national offices in Fayzabad, Gardez, Herat,
refugees and undocumented Afghans from Jalalabad, Kandarhar, Kunduz, Maimana and
Pakistan, many of whom will be unable to Mazar-i-Sharif.
return to their places of origin.

Afghanistan

In March, OCHA took over UNHCR’s responsibility to coordinate the response to
the needs of conflict-affected IDPs. OCHA’s
approach included reviewing and screening
petition lists, planning joint assessments, coordinating response, and reporting on and
updating the numbers of IDPs who needed assistance and those assisted. To showcase displacement trends across Afghanistan
and to ensure a well-coordinated response,
OCHA developed a weekly interactive online dashboard.
OCHA developed the HCT-approved Household Emergency Assessment Tool (HEAT)—a
household-level questionnaire designed to
obtain a quick and accurate picture of key
needs and vulnerabilities in the immediate
aftermath of an emergency. Some 275 HEAT
needs assessments were carried out in 2016,
tripling the 2015 number. This helped to
standardize assessments and the data-collec-

Pakistan

In 2016, while supporting IDPs in displacement, humanitarian partners assisted the
Government of Pakistan in facilitating the
return of 117,395 IDPs to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and the repatriation
of some 381,275 refugees and 248,189 undocumented Afghans. The centrality of protection, joint advocacy for humanitarian space,
gender mainstreaming and the transition
from humanitarian to development action
have guided the overall response in Pakistan.
OCHA worked closely with the HCT and the
clusters to review coordination mechanisms
to ensure a robust, efficient and sustainable
response, including facilitating a mission of
the Senior Transformative Agenda Implementation Team. At the operational level,
coordination mechanisms have focused on
joint field assessments, response, monitoring

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

and advocacy. Good collaboration between
the clusters, Government partners and the
HCT resulted in a tightly focused Humanitarian Strategic Plan (HSP).
OCHA supported the HCT to formulate a
new strategy on access and establish a Humanitarian Access Working Group (HAWG).
Proactive and positive engagement between
the HAWG and the military removed 85 per
cent of access limitations. OCHA also led
HCT preparedness and partnership efforts
with the Government, ensuring the complementarity of preparedness plans. Procedures
were jointly developed with the Pakistan
National Disaster Management Authority
to implement the multisector initial rapid
assessment (MIRA). OCHA supported the
INSARAG External Classification process to
strengthen national rescue capacity.

37

OCHA’s major role in advocacy and access-related efforts continued to be prioritized and
appreciated as a way to effectively support
the humanitarian community and address
the plight of affected people.

OCHA continued to support the Government
in formulating national guidelines and a policy on cash-transfer programmes. In line with
its commitments under the Grand Bargain,
OCHA provided support to the multisectoral
Cash Working Group to harmonize cashbased interventions.

OCHA Ukraine was recognized as an effecIn 2016, the Pakistan Humanitarian Pooled tive and dedicated body that supported huFund disbursed $6 million, of which 73 per manitarian coordination in leading intercent was disbursed through national NGOs. action with parties to the conflict on access
The HSP was funded at 52 per cent by the end and other issues of humanitarian concern.
of December. OCHA Pakistan is based in the The highly politicized and unpredictable concapital, Islamabad, with subnational offices text required an impartial, principled and
in Karachi, Lahore and Peshawar.
all-encompassing approach to these issues,
for which OCHA was well positioned to pursue in support of and collaboration with other
Ukraine
organizations. In addition, the country office
regularly facilitated visits by donors and the
The armed conflict in eastern Ukraine contin- Government to eastern Ukraine.
ued in 2016, triggering humanitarian needs,
claiming lives and resulting in damages to The five sub-offices in Donetsk, Kramatorsk,
critical civilian infrastructure. The OCHA Luhansk, Mariupol and Sievierodonetsk in
country office continued to provide support eastern Ukraine remained fully operational.
and advice to the HC and the HCT to ensure They provided enhanced coordination in the
coherence in advocacy and principled, stra- most affected areas, particularly along the
tegic action.
contact line, which has become the de-facto
border between the Government-controlled

Kramatorsk,
Ukraine
People of all
ages attended
a humanitarian
marketplace on
World Humanitarian
Day 2016.
Credit: OCHA

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

38

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

and non-Government-controlled areas of
eastern Ukraine.

mainstreaming protection, including child
protection and gender-based violence (GBV),
into country-based preparedness-and-coorA consultative development of the HPC re- dination efforts in partnership with UNFPA,
sulted in an evidence-based 2017 HRP target- UNHCR, UN Women and Governments.
ing the most vulnerable people. It included
a clear path for bridging siloes between hu- The regional risk model at subnational level,
based on INFORM, was developed in conmanitarian and development action.
sultation with the Regional IASC Task Force
for the Caucasus and Central Asia. ROCRegional Office for Central Asia and the CauCA brokered customs agreements between
casus (ROCCA)
the UN and the Governments of Armenia
and Tajikistan.
Throughout 2016, ROCCA’s activities focused on reinforcing field support to UN In Kyrgyzstan, ROCCA spearheaded the deRCs and humanitarian partners, concen- velopment of an international humanitarian
trating on priorities set for the most vulner- assistance law, which is expected to be adopted in 2017. As part of strengthening partnerable countries.
ships with regional organizations, the CollecIn Armenia, ROCCA provided IM support tive Security Treaty Organization, IFRC and
to the UN RC during the April conflict es- OCHA signed a document confirming key
calation in the Nagorno-Karabakh (South areas for cooperation in 2017. Cooperation
Caucasus) conflict zone. As part of its pre- was also maintained with the Almaty-based
paredness activities, an emergency response Center for Emergency Situations and Dispreparedness (ERP) approach was introduced aster Risk Reduction (CESDRR). As part of
in all countries of the region. And with the the OCHA/UNEP Joint Project, ROCCA
support of its Humanitarian Advisory Teams contributed to building the capacity and ex(HATs), ROCCA organized and facilitated pertise of CESDRR staff and Government
simulation exercises in Georgia, Kyrgyzstan agencies of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan in
environmental emergencies and information
and Tajikistan.
management.
ROCCA continued building awareness and
providing consultation to the region’s Gov- ROCCA is based in Almaty, Kazakhstan,
ernments regarding accession to INSARAG. with three HATs in Armenia, Kyrgyzstan
Focusing on the centrality of protection, and Tajikistan.
ROCCA succeeded in integrating protection
into Minimum Preparedness Actions and
Advanced Preparedness Actions. It advocated

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

39

Latin America and the Caribbean
Colombia

Despite the positive impact of the peace process with the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia-People’s Army, other actors,
such as the National Liberation Army and
post-demobilization armed groups, continued to create humanitarian impacts in 2016.
OCHA continued to monitor humanitarian
trends and support links between humanitarian, development and peacebuilding efforts.
OCHA promoted better interaction with
peacebuilding and development actors in an
enlarged HCT/UNCT and with 12 newly
created Local Coordination Teams. It directly
supported these teams with the collection,
processing and analysis of humanitarian data
in relation to attacks against civilians, threats,
sexual and gender-based violence and other
IHL infractions. OCHA monitored the humanitarian impact of new sources of violence.
Some were less visible and more difficult to
monitor, such as threats against civilians, access constraints and social control imposed
by new armed groups, GBV, and the use of
children by armed groups.
OCHA regularly engaged national authorities for common analysis and information
sharing. It created an Information Management and Analysis Unit, managed jointly
with UNDP and the UN RC’s office. The
unit worked closely with think tanks, the
UN Human Rights Office, the Ombudsman’s
Office and field staff to better analyse the
nature and humanitarian impact of threats
against civilians.

The Colombia CBPF financed 12 projects
with a total value of $2.1 million, aligned
fully with the 2016 HRP.
OCHA Colombia is based in Bogota, with seven subnational offices in Arauca, Cali, Cucuta,
Monteria, Pasto, Quibdo and Villavicencio.
Regional Office for Latin America and the
Caribbean (ROLAC)

More than 10.7 million people across Latin
America and the Caribbean were affected by
disasters and emergencies in 2016. Livelihoods were destroyed when El Niño exacerbated the drought in Central America and the
Caribbean and caused heavy rains in South
OCHA supported the Disaster Risk Man- America. Large-scale emergencies, such as
agement Unit (UNGRD) in analysing nat- the Ecuador earthquake in April and Hurriural disaster figures, impacts and response cane Matthew in the Caribbean in October,
gaps. The HCT developed an inter-agency demanded the humanitarian community’s
emergency response plan, which was tested attention and response.
in the simulation exercise in October 2016.
An Inter-agency Border Response Plan was Millions more people were affected by the
developed for the situation on the border Zika epidemic and other vector-borne diswith Venezuela.
eases. Violence forced families to flee and
seek refuge in the Northern Triangle in El

Colombia
In one of her visits
to the country, ASG
for Humanitarian
Affairs and Deputy
Emergency Relief
Coordinator
Kyung-wha Kang
listens to an elderly
woman discuss
the humanitarian
challenges facing
her community.
Credit: OCHA

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

40

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. ROLAC for the earthquake, to Haiti for Hurricane
provided coordination to ensure effective Matthew, to Paraguay for floods and to Anand inclusive humanitarian action, and to gola to respond to the yellow fever outbreak.
improve operational readiness and response.
In response to the Ecuador earthquake, which
The 2016 hurricane season was the most ac- caused 661 deaths, injured 6,274 people and
tive since 2012 and the deadliest since 2005, affected 380,000 people, OCHA mobilized an
with hurricanes Earl, Matthew and Otto UNDAC team, and ROLAC maintained an
strongly impacting the region.
active presence in the field during six months
of the emergency. This enabled intersector
ROLAC helped mobilize more than $205 mil- coordination, assessment and advocacy for
lion, including $28 million through CERF an efficient response to the most vulnerafor five disasters in the region. ROLAC sup- ble communities. A Flash Appeal for $72.8
ported Guatemala and Honduras to develop million was launched, and CERF allocated
a joint HRP requesting $57 million for Gua- $7.5 million.
temala and $44.2 million for Honduras in
response to the drought.
ROLAC is based in Panama. In 2016, it had
HATs in eight countries: Bolivia, the DominiROLAC deployed 53 people to support emer- can Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras,
gency response in the region: 20 OCHA ROL- Mexico, Nicaragua and Peru.
AC staff and 41 UNDAC members to Ecuador
Ecuador
Former students of
the Mons Enrique
Bartolucci primary
school play at the
site of their former
school, which was
damaged heavily by
the earthquake.
Credit: UNHCR/
Santiago Arcos
Veintimilla

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

41

West and Central Africa
Chad
Hadia, 32, from CAR
brings her children
and their local
friends to the field
to play and help
after school. After
more than a decade
in Chad, Hadia
has rebuilt her life
with the family by
working with the
host community.
Credit: UNHCR/
Oualid Khelifi

so that it can respond adequately to coordination challenges and enable a more efficient
In 2016, OCHA supported the HCT in devel- and adapted response.
oping a three-year HRP strategy (2017-2019)
with annual plans to ensure better alignment OCHA CAR also continued working with
of humanitarian, early recovery and devel- all humanitarian actors’ programming to enopment initiatives of the National Recovery sure improved contextual, conflict-sensitive
and Peacebuilding Plan. The strategy aims to analysis that has enhanced evidence-based
start preparing the ground for an eventual response planning. This required continuous
gradual transfer of responsibilities to national coordination with an INGO coordination
authorities, and to provide basic social servic- committee that was implemented to strengthes and protection to the population.
en partnerships with the INGO community
and the UNICEF-led Rapid Response MechOCHA CAR fostered the process of decentral- anism project.
ization and strengthened three subnational
offices in Bouar, Bambari and Kaga Bandoro,
providing them with additional support and Chad
field capacity in coordination, the production
of IM products, analyses and the promotion In 2016, internal and regional political, miliof humanitarian access and principles. The tary and socioeconomic challenges continued
capacities of five smaller sub-offices were to generate vulnerability and suffering for
also strengthened to enable OCHA to quickly millions of Chadians who needed emergency
establish mobile sub-offices to ensure coor- humanitarian assistance. Among an estimatdination structures in locations where the ed 3.9 million affected people, some 2.3 milhumanitarian context suddenly deteriorated. lion people required humanitarian assistance.
The dynamic field presence allowed OCHA to
adjust to changing humanitarian conditions
Central African Republic (CAR)

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

42

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

OCHA coordinated the increasing life-saving response in the Lake Chad Basin region,
where repeated Boko Haram attacks affected 350,000 people. It held multiple advocacy events to raise the profile of the crisis
and to generate the needed resources for
the response.

In July, the Ivorian Government forcibly
evicted some 23,000 people from the Mont
Peko National Park. In response, OCHA set
up coordination structures to manage the
displacement emergency and coordinated
a $2 million CERF allocation to assist the
displaced people living in host communities
near the national park. Through an Enlarged
In February, a Senior Transformative Agenda Coordinating Committee, co-presided by the
Implementation Team (STAIT) travelled to HC and the Ministry of Solidarity, OCHA
Chad to review the situation, and to ensure coordinated needs-assessment missions and
a fully functioning humanitarian commu- the CERF request process.
nity and the delivery of quality and timely
humanitarian assistance for the millions of OCHA also contributed to training sessions
people in need.
on humanitarian principles and civil-military
coordination to the Ivoirian military, prior to
OCHA introduced the Access Monitoring the deployment of Ivoirian peacekeepers to
and Reporting Framework, which provided Mali (MINUSMA). OCHA played a key role
improved analysis of access constraints, with in the creation of a Private Sector Humanitara view to resolving them with the relevant ian Platform by establishing and facilitating
parties and authorities, especially through a a task force comprising private companies,
strengthened capacity in civil-military co- the Ministry of Solidarity, the national Red
ordination. CERF provided $20 million to Cross and UNDP. The Connecting Business
jump-start the flow of aid in the Lake region initiative and the General Confederation of
to ensure a life-saving response to the under- Côte d’Ivoire Companies were also involved
funded crisis in southern Chad.
in the process.

Through its country office and five sub-offices in Abeche, Baga Sola, Gore, Mao and Sarh,
OCHA coordinated a $541 million appeal
for humanitarian needs in Chad, bringing
together a number of aid organizations to
ensure a coherent and efficient response.

At the end of 2016, OCHA transformed its
presence in Côte d’Ivoire from a country
office to a HAT, reporting to the Regional
Office for West and Central Africa to reflect
the decreased demand for OCHA’s coordination services.

Côte d’Ivoire

Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)

In 2016, Côte d’Ivoire was affected by two
main emergencies that required an urgent
coordinated response.

The humanitarian situation in DRC remained
relentlessly acute and deteriorated throughout the year, as violence and conflict continued to displace an average of more than 4,200
In February, intercommunal conflict between people per day, mostly due to armed conflict.
farming and herding communities broke out The humanitarian context was aggravated by
in Bouna in the north-east, resulting in the a political deadlock surrounding the holding
destruction of homes and the displacement of elections, an economic downturn and a
of 2,200 people. OCHA deployed staff to sup- spike in intercommunal strife, including in
port local authorities in managing the crisis. Tanganyika Province and the Kasai region.

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Due to the highly dynamic context, OCHA
coordinated preparedness and contingency-planning efforts. They resulted in multi-risk provincial contingency plans to be
activated at the onset of emergencies, and
contingency plans related to the potential
humanitarian impact of national electoral
processes. OCHA undertook a comprehensive review of the most pressing funding
gaps across key response provinces to enable informed discussions with donors. It
also mobilized critical resources, including
$16.5 million in CERF funding to support
life-saving humanitarian assistance.

Mali

With limited progress in the implementation
of the Malian peace agreement, insecurity has
spread from the north to the centre of the
country. The exacerbated needs were mostly
linked to underdevelopment and the State’s
inability to provide basic services, particularly
in conflict-affected areas.

Humanitarian actors provided an essential
lifeline for vulnerable communities in 2016.
An inter-agency communication and advocacy plan was implemented in 2016 on behalf
of the HCT and under OCHA’s coordination
OCHA also laid the groundwork for the inno- and leadership. Public advocacy was carried
vative multi-year HRP 2017-2019 in line with out through a wide range of communication
the commitments emanating from the WHS channels to support the protection of affectand the Grand Bargain. This was elaborated ed people and an effective response to their
in alignment with other planning processes, needs. However, the humanitarian response
including those of development partners and remained severely underfunded in 2016.
international financial institutions.
OCHA Mali continued to take part in the
OCHA continued to be present in DRC’s work of the Reconciliation, Justice and Huworst-affected regions, with nine subna- manitarian Issues Sub-Committee, which is
tional offices in the cities of Beni, Bukavu, responsible, inter alia, for monitoring huBunia, Goma, Kalemie, Kindu, Lubumbashi, manitarian issues throughout the implementation of the peace agreement. This allowed
Shabunda and Uvira.
OCHA Mali to further advocate access to and
protection of civilians.

43

North Kivu, DRC
Displaced women
and men patiently
waiting for non-food
items distribution in
JTN village.
Credit: OCHA/N.
Berger

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

44

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

OCHA Mali supported the HC in discussions
with armed-group representatives and community leaders to negotiate access to people
in need. The office was actively involved in
sensitizing stakeholders with humanitarian
principles and IHL, and training the Malian
armed and security forces, MINUSMA civilian and military personnel, international
forces, NGOs, UN personnel and armedgroup elements.

tation of the Rapid Response Mechanism
(RRM), which provided the basis for a quick
and flexible response to sudden emergencies.
Some 42 multisectoral assessments (MSAs)
were completed in 2016 under the RRM.
OCHA maintained strong relations with
governmental counterparts and helped facilitate trainings to strengthen coordination
with national and regional counterparts. The
Government of Niger and OCHA co-facilitated joint MSAs across the country.

OCHA Mali’s main office is in the capital,
Bamako, with sub-offices in Mopti, Timbuk- Based on a general agreement on the potu and Gao, which covers the Kidal region. tential to scale up cash activities nation-

Niger
Nigerian refugee
Aissata, 8, and her
family peer through
the entrance of their
hut in the MaineSoroa settlement, in
Niger’s Diffa region.
They fled to Niger
from the border
town of Kanama to
escape fighting.
Credit: UNHCR/
Roberta Russo

Niger

In 2016, Niger continued to be confronted
with a cycle of chronic humanitarian needs,
with 2 million people severely food insecure
and almost 1.5 million children malnourished,
including 400,000 severely malnourished.
Boko Haram’s violent campaign in neighbouring Nigeria and in Niger’s Diffa region
displaced 200,000 people, further exacerbating the security-and-protection crisis.
In the Diffa region, OCHA was instrumental
in consolidating coordination and rapid-response mechanisms. It spearheaded the creation of the Inter-organization Coordination
Committee and supported the implemen-

wide in several sectors, OCHA initiated
the implementation of a multisectoral Cash
Transfer Working Group in Niamey. The
group’s activities include harmonizing activities related to the assessment, design and
implementation of cash-based interventions, both as part of current programmes
and to strengthen preparedness efforts
in case of increased humanitarian needs.
OCHA’s response to the humanitarian situation was nationwide through a main office
in Niger’s capital, Niamey, and six sub-offices
in Agadez, Diffa, Maradi, Tahoua, Tillabery
and Zinder.

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

45

Regional Office for West
and Central Africa (ROWCA)

In 2016, 11 staff spent 357 days supporting
countries on preparedness, and 20 first responders at the country level were trained.
ROWCA also strengthened the capacity of
sub-regional organizations to lead in emergency response and preparedness. It revised
contingency plans and supported an inROWCA led several communication cam- ter-agency assessment on the national capacpaigns, organized high-level events on the ity for disaster risk reduction and emergency
Lake Chad Basin and Mali’s regional crisis at preparedness in Guinea, and conducted Ebola
the WHS, and supported high-level events preparedness evaluations in Guinea Bissau
on the Lake Chad Basin at ECOSOC and the and Togo. ROWCA also supported countries
General Assembly.
across the region during their humanitarian
planning processes, and it ensured the overall
ROWCA ensured emergency response monitoring of the 2016 humanitarian rethrough the deployment of staff to support sponse through the Online Reporting System.
ongoing operations. It deployed 11 staff, who
spent 411 days working in the field. It also In 2016, ROWCA oversaw HATs in Burkina
supported emergency preparedness activities Faso, Cameroon and Mauritania, with plans
in 13 countries of the region by rolling out six to become an OCHA country office in 2017
emergency response preparedness trainings, due to the deteriorating situation in the Lake
supporting contingency planning in Burkina Chad Basin region.
Faso, Cameroon, Mali and Niger, and backing
simulation exercises in Gabon, Ghana and
the Republic of Congo.

The Sahel region and the crisis in the Lake
Chad Basin required urgent attention in 2016.
ROWCA made significant contributions to
placing the region on the international agenda, which led to funding commitments from
various donors.

Chad
A Chadian returnee
widow from Sudan.
Credit: UNICEF/
Bahaji

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

46

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Southern and Eastern Africa
Burundi

After the political crisis erupted in 2015 in
Burundi, the subsequent political instability,
insecurity and socioeconomic deterioration
continued to exacerbate the humanitarian
plight of the country’s impoverished and vulnerable people in 2016.

response activities, and it continued to
support and emphasize resilience-building
in the country.

OCHA, the UNCT and Government counterparts produced the joint UN-Government
of the State of Eritrea Strategic Partnership
Cooperation Framework (SPCF) for 20172021. Launched in December 2016, the SPCF
In February, OCHA established a country is a development framework into which basic
office and worked with international and na- services are incorporated in the absence of a
tional partners to build the necessary humani- separate humanitarian plan.
tarian architecture, coordination mechanisms
and processes. The office developed progres- OCHA produced essential service-response
sively and increased the availability of data priorities project sheets for donors, requeston humanitarian needs through assessments ing $25 million for basic-services projects for
undertaken with humanitarian partners. The 2017. Throughout the year, OCHA helped
number of people who needed humanitarian to mobilize funds for the SPCF 2013-2016,
assistance tripled from 1.1 million to 3 mil- which was funded at 83 per cent by the end
lion by the end of 2016, particularly in the of the four-year programme. As part of the
areas of food security, health and protection. fundraising activities, OCHA organized a
number of donor missions to the country and
OCHA intensified its advocacy when access briefed donors and interested parties inside
constraints created a difficult operating en- and outside Eritrea.
vironment. This resulted in the Government
facilitating access for humanitarian actors. OCHA also continued to provide situationOCHA also advocated more internation- al analysis to support humanitarian decial attention to humanitarian needs in Bu- sion-making, and it produced IM products
rundi to reinforce operational capacity. It that were used for resource mobilization
undertook capacity-building measures and and general advocacy. Based on the analysis,
supported NGOs and national partners OCHA updated UNCT contingency plans
in their role in humanitarian action. This in line with IASC guidelines, taking into acwas complemented through strengthening count key developments in Eritrea and the
resource mobilization efforts by the end wider region.
of the year, which helped to substantially increase humanitarian funding for 2016.
Due to initial underfunding, OCHA facilitat- Somalia
ed a CERF allocation of $13 million to scale
up the flow of humanitarian aid. By the end Despite progress on the political front, the
of 2016, some 750,000 people had received humanitarian situation in Somalia continued
to deteriorate due to climatic shocks, insehumanitarian assistance.
curity, armed conflict, human rights violations, political instability and low levels of
Eritrea
development. Of the country’s 12.3 million
people, 5 million required some form of huIn 2016, OCHA Eritrea continued to play manitarian assistance.
a central role in ensuring that humanitarian needs were incorporated into the main To avert a further deterioration of the situdevelopment framework programmes and ation and to increase advocacy, OCHA sup-

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

ported the development of a Call for Aid
that outlined immediate priority needs and
requirements over a six-month period. It
facilitated a STAIT mission that led to the
HCT prioritization of response to protection,
access, cash programming and GBV issues.
In light of the deteriorating humanitarian
situation due to drought, OCHA stepped up
advocacy and resource mobilization. Funding
for humanitarian activities increased noticeably compared with previous years. Allocations from the Somalia Humanitarian Fund
were aligned with the CERF rapid-response
allocations to ensure complementarity and
effective use of resources.

47

ability to prepare for, respond to and recover
from future crises.
OCHA continued to support the HCT Access
Task Force through systematic monitoring
and reporting on humanitarian access impediments. It also facilitated the development of
the HCT access strategy to be implemented
over a one-year period.
OCHA Somalia is managed out of the capital, Mogadishu, with a support office in
Nairobi and a subnational presence in nine
locations: Baidoa, Belet Weyne, Bossaso,
Dhobley, Doloow, Gaalkacyo, Garowe, Hargeisa and Kismayo.

In collaboration with humanitarian and Gov-

ernment partners, OCHA led and supported
needs assessments in nine regions and the
roll-out of the newly developed Somalia Initial Rapid Needs Assessment tool. As part of
efforts to ensure more effective humanitarian
response and a greater focus on sustainability,
OCHA worked with the HCT to formulate
the 2016-2018 humanitarian strategy for Somalia. The strategy provides the overall multi-year framework for the annual appeals, and
it links to State-building and development
activities that help strengthen communities’

Sudan

In 2016, OCHA played a critical role in supporting a coordinated response to a range
of new emergencies. During the first half
of the year, fighting in Darfur’s Jebel Marra
area between the Government and the Sudan
Liberation Army-Abdul Wahid displaced
more than 158,000 people, many of them
initially inaccessible to humanitarians. OCHA
provided regular updates on humanitarian
needs and gaps and advocated access to areas

Sudan
Women carry empty
bags as they line up
to receive food at
the Tawilla site for
newly arrived IDPs
from Jebel Marra.
Credit: OCHA

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

48

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Malakal,
South Sudan
ASG for
Humanitarian
Affairs and Deputy
Emergency Relief
Coordinator Kyungwha Kang visited
Malakal in February
2016. She witnessed
the devastating
impact of the armed
violence that took
place on 17 and
18 February in the
UN Protection of
Civilians site
Credit: OCHA/
Guiomar Pau Sole

of reported displacement. During 2016, many
locations in Jebel Marra were reached with
humanitarian assistance for the first time
in five years.

Regional Office for Southern and Eastern
Africa (ROSEA)

In 2016, Southern and Eastern Africa were
affected by adverse climatic shocks, persistent
Due to the conflict in South Sudan, more violent conflict and the slowest economic
than 130,000 refugees also arrived in Sudan growth in two decades. El Niño severely reduring the year. Many arrived in East Darfur, duced rainfall, which resulted in rising food
where UNHCR did not have an established insecurity across Southern Africa, especially
presence. OCHA worked with UNHCR to in Madagascar, Malawi, Mozambique, Lecoordinate the initial response, including sotho, Namibia, Swaziland and Zimbabwe,
information updates, as UNHCR’s presence and in Eastern Africa, namely in Djibouti,
north Somalia, Sudan and northern parts
was being scaled up.
of Ethiopia.
OCHA played a key role in activating and
co-chairing a flood task force jointly with Conflict continued to displace record numthe Humanitarian Aid Commission, which bers of people, especially from South Sudan,
ensured that humanitarian actors and Gov- bringing the total number of refugees close
ernment ministries had a common platform to 4 million in East Africa alone. In response
to coordinate and share information on the to the multiple crises, ROSEA deployed staff
response to the seasonal flooding. OCHA to 22 out of 25 countries within its coverage,
worked with the Government and partners fielding more than 334 missions for a total
to advocate revised humanitarian directives, of approximately 2,675 days of operational
issued in December, to simplify the oper- support to HCTs. This is more than double
ational procedures for the movement and the surge support provided in 2015 due to a
delivery of assistance.
steady increase in the number and complexity
of sudden, slow-onset and protracted crises
OCHA Sudan is based in the capital, Khar- in east and southern Africa. These deploytoum, with eight subnational offices in Abyei, ments strengthened in-country coordination,
Damazine, Ed Daein, El Fasher, El Geneina, IM, situational analysis, advocacy and fundKadugli, Nyala and Zalingei.
raising efforts.

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

49

During his Agenda
for Humanity
campaign, former
UN SecretaryGeneral Ban
Ki-moon visited
several countries
affected by crises
and disasters.
Credit: Giles Clarke

As part of the Emergency Response and
Preparedness roll-out, ROSEA organized
multiple trainings during the year, including regional training on preparedness and
coordination in Johannesburg for priority
countries in Southern Africa. It also supported the development of contingency plans for
Burundi, Kenya, Madagascar and Zimbabwe.

Throughout the year, ROSEA consolidated
its position as the thought leader and go-to
organization for relevant and accurate humanitarian data and in-depth regional analysis for better-targeted humanitarian action,
particularly through the quarterly Humanitarian Outlook for the Horn of Africa and the
Great Lakes Region. The office also engaged
with the regional United Nations DevelopImplementing the WHS outcomes, ROSEA ment Group for East and Southern Africa
developed the Regional Inter-agency Stand- to develop a resilience framework to reduce
ing Committee Action Plan, together with humanitarian need.
development actors such as the World Bank,
to mobilize $1.3 billion for humanitarian as- ROSEA is based in Nairobi, with a subresistance to 13.8 million people, and to build gional office in Johannesburg and a HAT
resilience and implement risk-mitigating in Madagascar.
measures in Southern Africa.

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

50

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Middle East and North Africa

tection of Civilians, Gaza crossings, West
Bank demolitions and displacement, and a
In 2016, an estimated 2.3 million people, in- monthly Humanitarian Bulletin.
cluding 1.2 million refugees, required humanitarian assistance in oPt, mostly in the The findings of the Gaza IDP re-registration
Gaza Strip, Area C and East Jerusalem of the and vulnerability exercise were published in
West Bank. Palestinians continued to face a April 2016. A thorough update of the Gaza
wide range of protection threats and a host Inter-Agency Contingency Plan was completof restrictions in their access to basic services. ed and lessons learned from the 2014 conflict
were implemented. Emergency responses to
OCHA oPt played a crucial role in the re- an energy crisis and flooding in Gaza were
sponse, providing coordination leadership coordinated. In the face of growing access
on behalf of the humanitarian communi- challenges and restrictions, effective coordity and mobilizing efforts for strategic ad- nation was improved with all local authorities.
vocacy. The office focused on areas where
Occupied Palestinian Territory (oPt)

Tripoli, Lebanon
Destroyed buildings
in Nahr El-Bared
Palestinian refugee
camp.
Credit: Giles Clarke

Palestinian authorities were least able to
extend control. Regular background information, strong analysis and concept notes
assisted the humanitarian leadership. Advocacy for increased respect for IHL and
international human rights law was a key
response component.

The oPt Humanitarian Fund, led by the HC
and managed by OCHA, continued to be
aligned with the HRP and needs-based prioritization. In 2016, more than 87 per cent of
the humanitarian funds were used to address
urgent needs. Two allocations totalling $7.1
million were used for underfunded HRP priorities, and an additional four projects respondOCHA provided 157 in-house and field- ed to unforeseen emergencies with funding
based briefings to 1,951 people, 52 per cent from the reserve allocation. A total of 536,000
of whom were diplomats and donors. It draft- people were reached through these projects.
ed 13 public statements for the HC and three
Security Council briefings, and it continued For oPt, OCHA has offices in Gaza, Hebron,
to produce and share regular reports on Pro- Jerusalem, Nablus and Ramallah.

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

51

anon, Morocco, oPt, Tunisia and Turkey. It
also targeted non-INSARAG member countries and countries with earthquake disasOCHA ROMENA conducted 113 missions ters to increase the adoption of INSARAG
in 2016, a majority of which provided direct methodology. In Iran, key preparedness acresponse to two major humanitarian crises tivities included a table-top exercise, an IM
(Iraq and Yemen) and support to the human- workshop, an INSARAG/UNDAC workshop
itarian response in Libya. ROMENA staff and an emergency response preparedness
spent 1,243 days deployed in 2016, exceeding (ERP) workshop.
the 2015 number by nearly 50 per cent.
In 2016, ROMENA developed the SOPs for
The office provided partnership support responding to sudden-onset disasters, and it
Regional Office for the Middle East and North
Africa (ROMENA)

Amran, Yemen
A group of IDP
children from
Sa’ada and Jawf
play near the edge
of an IDP camp
in Khmer, Amran.
An estimated 2.5
million people
are now internally
displaced and with
no homes to
return to.
Credit: UNHCR/
Rawan Shaif

throughout the region, focusing on three
flagship areas: the League of Arab States, and
Iran and Turkey, both of which agreed on a
new plan of action during the year. Substantial remote support to countries in the region
was also provided through the translation
of 57 documents and 143 media interviews.
ROMENA supported operational and emergency response preparedness in 10 countries:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Leb-

ensured it had mission kits as part of its own
internal review of internal preparedness in
case of a sudden-onset emergency. During
the year, ROMENA supported the HAT in
Iran, focusing on ERP.

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

52

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Asia and the Pacific
Myanmar

In 2016, Myanmar continued to be characterized by long-standing ethnic tensions, statelessness, ongoing armed conflict, internal
displacement and the threat of natural disasters. During the year, 217,000 people, 80
per cent of whom are women and children,
continued to be internally displaced across
Kachin, Rakhine and Shan states. An additional 282,000 vulnerable people in Rakhine
remained in need of humanitarian assistance.
In October, more than 90,000 people were
newly displaced or re-displaced in northern
Rakhine, including more than 74,000 Rohingya who fled to Bangladesh following a
series of attacks on border-guard police posts
and subsequent security operations.

Rakhine, Myanmar
Residents of the
Thet Kae Pyin camp
for IDPs, where an
estimated 5,500
people live.
Credit: OCHA/P.
Peron

ple for assistance. OCHA responded to major floods in June that temporarily displaced
500,000 people in Ayeyarwaddy, Bago, Magway, Mandalay and Rakhine. It strengthened
intersectoral coordination by streamlining
coordination arrangements, and it included
national NGOs and donors in the HCT. In
Rakhine, OCHA supported partner organizations to help the State Government develop
its socioeconomic development plan, providing an important opportunity to advocate for
the needs of all communities.
OCHA continued to lead on information and
humanitarian advocacy, providing regular
humanitarian updates and critical political
analysis to ensure humanitarian operations
were grounded in a common situational
awareness, including inputs from national
partners. OCHA’s advocacy for HRP funding
resulted in multi-year funding commitments.
It supported a $3.5 million CERF application
for flood response to address food security,
health and protection needs. Through the
Myanmar Humanitarian Fund, OCHA allocated $5.5 million to 22 projects in Kachin,
Rakhine and Shan. About 45 per cent of the
Fund was allocated either directly or indirectly to local NGOs, exceeding the 20 per
cent WHS commitment.
Other initiatives included establishing the
Myanmar Private Sector Disaster Management Network, and supporting the Cash
Working Group to ensure improved cash
preparedness. This included an inter-agency cash-feasibility study and the first cash
4W (Who does What, Where, When/Why)
and infographics related to cash programming in Myanmar.

OCHA’s presence in the country has been
flexible and responsive to emerging needs.
From its offices in Bhamo, Lashio, Myitkyina, Nay Pyi Taw, Sittwe and Yangon, OCHA
helped to strengthen humanitarian coordination to better meet the needs of the country’s
most vulnerable people. It played a key role
in advancing dialogue among Government
stakeholders, leading to more systematic Office for the Pacific Islands
and consistent advocacy on issues of concern and enhancing preparedness-and-re- In February, Tropical Cyclone Winston hit
sponse efforts.
Fiji and caused one of the largest natural disasters in the region in recent times. OCHA
OCHA led the development of the $150 provided successful coordination support to
million 2017 HRP, targeting 525,000 peo- the Fijian Government by embedding the

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Pacific Humanitarian Team within the nationally led disaster response. For the first
time, Fijian authorities used the standardized
Flash Appeal to raise international awareness
and funding for the response. Nearly 60 per
cent of funds raised through the appeal went
directly to programmes implemented by the
Government, and 10 per cent went to national NGOs’ programmes, directly supporting
the WHS localization agenda.
OCHA provided regular briefings on humanitarian issues to the UN RCs in Fiji and Samoa
on preparedness and response, strengthening their leadership and advocacy roles with
affected Governments and humanitarian
partners. Humanitarian affairs also became
a standing agenda item for the Pacific UNCT

53

agement plans and to produce a humanitarian
strategy aligned with international practices
and standards.
OCHA Pacific worked with partners to secure
broad, high-level Government participation
at the WHS in Istanbul, supporting Pacific
Governments and civil-society partners, and
coordinating their messages on how to adapt
and improve humanitarian work to fit the
region’s unique challenges.
OCHA Pacific also worked with partners and
Governments to implement the key recommendations and outcomes of the WHS, including through a dedicated Pacific Humanitarian Partnership meeting in October 2016.

Philippines
During Super
Typhoon Nock-Ten,
OCHA supported
Government efforts
by releasing
analyses of
the probable
humanitarian
impact, fielded
an experienced
response team to
facilitate needsbased humanitarian
assistance, and
provided critical
technical advice to
authorities on the
ground.
Credit: OCHA

meetings, securing a broader engagement
and appreciation of humanitarian concerns.

Philippines

The Philippines is one of the world’s most
disaster-prone countries, with an average
of 22 typhoons hitting the country each year.
Protracted conflict between multiple armed
groups on the southern island of Mindanao
continues to displace indigenous people.

OCHA provided training for UN Joint Presence Offices on humanitarian coordination,
particularly in information sharing, and it
provided an advisory role to the Government within the first few days of an emergency. Following Tropical Cyclone Winston,
OCHA provided substantial support to the OCHA made significant progress in advancGovernment of Fiji to review disaster man- ing response readiness in the Philippines with

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

54

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

humanitarian partners and the Government.
The advances in data preparedness are a key
component of this. Emergency responders
were brought together to build a database that
informs pre-crisis disaster-impact modelling
to better enable first responders to identify
the people likely to require assistance and
prepare responses accordingly. Visualized
impact-analysis maps were one of the most
shared OCHA products on social media.
Equipped with this database, OCHA also facilitated contingency planning for international aid organizations and the updating of
a national plan.
In December 2016, as the Philippines braced
for Super Typhoon Nock-Ten, the authorities evacuated at-risk communities and
prepared rescue and relief operations. To
support the Government’s efforts, OCHA released analyses of the probable humanitarian
impact, fielded an experienced response team
to facilitate needs-based humanitarian assistance, and provided critical technical advice
to authorities on the ground. The successful
preparatory work validated the importance of
OCHA’s investments in response preparedness. In recognition of the years of OCHA’s
collaborative work with the Philippines’ authorities, OCHA was invited to work with the
military’s executive officers to promote the
principles and good practice of civil-military
coordination. This approach is essential in a
country prone to large-scale natural disasters.

1
A HAT includes
one to three staff
members who
provide the UN
RC with advice on
and support for
the humanitarian
situation and
response, including
preparedness
activities. Each HAT
is located in the
UN RC’s office and
reports directly to a
regional office

Regional Office for Asia and the
Pacific (ROAP)

OCHA ROAP deployed support teams to respond directly to eight natural disasters in the
Asia-Pacific region. It also provided support
through the HATs1 in Japan for the Kumamoto earthquake (April 2016) and in Indonesia for the Aceh earthquake (December
2016). ROAP staff spent 519 days deployed
to 13 crises, including support to five crises
in other regions. Substantial remote support
to countries in the region was also provided,
including working with UNCTs to prepare
at least five country response plans and 13
grant proposals funded by CERF.

Well-established evidence has proven that
investments in emergency preparedness and
humanitarian partnerships support a more
effective response, reducing the loss of life
and the humanitarian impact. OCHA ROAP
directly supported emergency response preparedness in 15 countries and worked with
the IASC Regional Network for Asia and the
Pacific to contextualize the global guidance
on ERP for the region. ROAP continued to
promote interoperability with regional response teams, such as co-locating response
teams from the UN and the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) during
the annual INSARAG Regional Simulation
Exercise (August 2016) and ASEAN’s Regional Disaster Relief Exercise (November 2016).
New operational partnerships were fostered
OCHA’s sub-office in Mindanao maintained through initiatives such as the training proclose contact with local organizations who vided to Chinese civil-society organizations
are the first to detect security concerns that in Beijing (October 2016), and existing partfuel protracted internal displacement. OCHA nerships were strengthened through continoperationalized the access monitoring frame- ued support to regional networks, such as the
work in 2016, which helped partners keep Regional Consultative Group on Humanitarabreast of trends in humanitarian access. ian Civil-Military Coordination for Asia and
Through regular visits to communities most the Pacific. ROAP also maintains a HAT in
heavily affected by conflict, OCHA advocated the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
principled humanitarian action and durable solutions.

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

55

GLOBAL FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

To enhance its field effectiveness throughout the year, OCHA produced its flagship
advocacy tool to mobilize resources for the
system through the Global Humanitarian
Overview (GHO) Mid-Year Status Report for
2016, and the new GHO Report for 2017. At
the beginning of 2016, the global appeal was
$19.8 billion to target 89.4 million people in
37 countries, and developments were tracked
through a monthly funding update. By the
end of the year, funding coverage was at 57
per cent ($12.6 billion) for a requirement
of $22.1 billion towards HRPs, RRPs and
Flash Appeals—the highest nominal amount
ever received.

FTS completed the technical developments
related to the remodelling of its database and
website, and it initiated the testing phase
prior to the launch of the new platform in
January 2017. The new platform will allow
reporting in IATI standards and track passthrough funding down to the local level,
the level of earmarking and the use of cashbased assistance.

As a key part of the ERC’s coordination mandate,2 OCHA has continued to lead and coordinate IAHEs on behalf of the humanitarian
system. IAHEs are an important tool to ensure learning and accountability and to continue to improve the way OCHA responds to
The Financial Tracking Service (FTS) pro- crises. Three key IAHE activities that were
vided continuously updated funding infor- concluded in 2016 include the IAHE in CAR,
mation for more than 62 emergencies and 44 a synthesis of findings from inter-agency huappeals/HRPs or similar action plans in 2016. manitarian evaluations conducted to date,
A total of 345 organizations reported 15,000 and the Syria Coordinated Accountability and
contributions to FTS in 2016. This means Lesson Learning synthesis and gap analysis.
that FTS processed an average of 60 new
contributions every working day through- The IAHE in CAR, triggered by the Level 3
out the year, verifying records, completing emergency response declaration, considered
missing information, matching information the achievement of results against the objecto the plan requirements, and cross-checking tives of the collective humanitarian response
it with existing records and data providers. in the country. As with all inter-agency humanitarian evaluations, it provided a number
The continued outreach with reporting part- of recommendations at the field level to the
ners has helped improve existing financial HC and the HCT to improve the ongoing
reporting from key partners such as UNFPA, response. It also offered recommendations
UNICEF, the European Union (EU) and Gulf directed to the IASC on issues that need to
donors, and helped establish new reporting be considered and addressed at the broader
mechanisms with other humanitarian actors. policy level.
FTS collaborated with the International Aid
Transparency Initiative (IATI) and facilitated The Synthesis of Key Findings from IAHEs
interaction with other humanitarian partners summarized and assessed key lessons from
through the Humanitarian Financing Task three IAHEs (evaluations of the international
Team on humanitarian reporting standards responses to crises in CAR, the Philippines
discussions, promoting the IATI standards (Typhoon Haiyan) and South Sudan). The
v2.02 humanitarian extension among donor/ synthesis highlights areas of convergence
agency partners.
and divergence of main findings, highlighting
common conclusions, and identifying crucial
The FTS team trained more than 200 staff lessons and challenges for the collective huand partners throughout the year, including manitarian response.
50 OCHA IM officers, 50 OCHA humanitarian affairs officers, and more than 100 exter- The Syria Coordinated Accountability and
nal staff from donors and reporting partners. Lesson Learning Evaluation Synthesis and

2
ECOSOC resolution
E/2003/5 (2003),
which recognizes
the role of the
ERC and calls
upon relevant
United Nations
organizations,
as well as other
humanitarian
actors, to enhance
the coordination,
effectiveness and
efficiency of their
humanitarian
activities, including
by developing
further methods
for monitoring and
evaluation

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

56

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

DRC
Local women
greet former UN
Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon during
his visit to DRC as
part of his Agenda
for Humanity
campaign.
Credit: Giles Clarke

The panel concluded that findings from humanitarian evaluations are an important
source of evidence to inform progress towards the achievement of the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Humanity, and to help guide
decisions and actions related to the Agenda’s
implementation. Despite the complexity and
long-term nature of policy change, evaluations have the potential to lead to a fundamental re-thinking of the way business is
done. To make sure this happens, evaluations
must continue to refine the way they inform
Gap Analysis is a unique exercise that re- decision-making processes, including imviewed findings from 24 publicly available proving the engagement of stakeholders, and
evaluations of the international response to ensuring transparency and accountability in
the Syria crisis, conducted by UN entities, decisions related to evaluation.
NGOs and donors between 2012 and 2015.
The report provided a synthesis of key issues The OCHA-facilitated Global Cluster Coorand lessons learned highlighted in those re- dinators Group (GCCG) produced a globports. It also identified a number of areas al mapping of humanitarian coordination
where additional evidence is necessary with arrangements in order to identify gaps in
coordination deliverables and identify areas
regards to the Syria crises.
requiring focused support from the global
Findings from the IAHE synthesis were pre- level. This was accompanied by OCHA-fasented at a panel discussion, titled The Role cilitated GCCG field support in countries
and Contribution of Collective Response such as Mozambique, Niger and Ukraine to
Evaluation for Accountability and Learn- strengthen and enhance coordination among
ing to Accelerate Progress towards the 2030 inter-cluster/sector groups and the HCTs.
Agenda. This was held during the ECOSOC
Humanitarian Affairs Segment in June Due to the increased use of cash to meet
2016, which was well attended by Member humanitarian needs and OCHA’s role in
States, NGOs, UN representatives and other supporting cash coordination, OCHA cash
stakeholders. Member States participating focal points were trained to guide HCs and
in the discussion highlighted how, from a HCTs in strategic decision-making on cash
donor-Government perspective, evaluation programming in 2016. OCHA’s Inter-Clusis a critical tool to build trust, and to advise ter Coordination Section also worked with
donors that funds provided for response partners on a joint cash-feasibility study
operations are adequately channelled to the aimed at increasing the uptake of multi-purmost-affected people, and are spent effective- pose cash grants.
ly and efficiently. Donor Governments have
an obligation to inform their citizens of the OCHA led and supported collective initiaadequate use of their funds, and independent tives to ensure that community engagement
evidence provided by evaluations is a key tool and accountability to affected people are an
to enable this. Civil-society representatives integral part of humanitarian response. It
highlighted how, from the perspective of civil worked with the Communicating with Dissociety, evaluations must be understood as aster-Affected Communities Network to
a right of citizens. They fulfil the right to be capture lessons learned and good practices.
informed by sound and independent evidence. Based on lessons learned from the Ebola response and the Iraq and Nepal crises, OCHA

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Haiti. UNDAC teams can deploy at short notice (12-48
hours) anywhere in the world. They play a major role
in assessment, coordination and IM during emergency
response missions. Credit: OCHA

worked with partners to create a collective
approach to field-level community engagement to strengthen the quality, accountability
and effectiveness of humanitarian response.
The aim was to ensure that people at risk
have the information they need to take action to protect themselves, and that the design of humanitarian responses is informed
by the views of at-risk and affected populations. OCHA supported offices in CAR, Haiti,
South Sudan and Yemen in setting up such
collective approaches linked to inter-cluster
coordination and HCTs.
OCHA finalized an IASC-endorsed guidance
note establishing standard practices for estimating humanitarian population figures as
part of an extensive and inclusive inter-agency process. The guidance standardizes terminology around people affected and in need,
and it provides an overview of methodologies
and consolidated current good practices. Its
content has helped inform capacity-building
efforts within OCHA, cluster lead agencies
and NGOs. As a result, the robustness and
transparency of figures of people in need in
HNOs and flash appeals have improved.
In 2016, OCHA began convening and facilitating an inter-agency initiative to strengthen
the coordination and quality of humanitarian
needs assessment and analysis by sharing data
and analysis capacities. This Joint Intersectoral Analysis Group (JIAG) focuses on two
pillars: refinement or development of methods and tools, and remote support to joint
intersectoral analyses. The JIAG approach
was tested successfully in the field in 2016
by mobilizing eight agencies to support the
preparation of the 2017 HNO in Libya.

United Nations Disaster
Assessment and
Coordination (UNDAC)
UNDAC is designed to help the United Nations and
Governments of disaster-affected countries during the
first phase of a sudden-onset emergency. It assists in
the coordination of incoming international relief at the
national level and/or at the site of the emergency.
UNDAC teams can deploy at short notice (12-48
hours) anywhere in the world to assess, coordinate
and manage information as part of UNDAC’s core
mandate in an emergency response mission.
On 1 and 2 October, a seven-person UNDAC team,
including MapAction specialists, was pre-deployed to
Jamaica, and an initial seven-person UNDAC team was
deployed to Haiti, which included IT and logistics experts from the Americas Support Team. On 4 October,
when Hurricane Matthew hit Haiti as a strong Category 4 storm, it caused displacement and widespread
damage, affecting 2.1 million people, with more than
1.4 million people in need of humanitarian assistance.
The pre-deployment of the teams in both countries
allowed for valuable preparatory work to be carried
out for initial assessments as soon as the hurricane
passed. OCHA had already decided to reinforce the
team in Haiti on 3 October, and it requested team
members to travel as soon as the airport in Haiti’s capital, Port-au-Prince, reopened.
The UNDAC team was deployed to the two worst-affected areas in the country, Jérémie and Les Cayes. It
supported the departmental coordination hubs of the
Haitian Civil Protection to help coordinate humanitarian partners’ work to deliver crucial assistance to
the population. The team also supported the development of the Flash Appeal, seeking $119.9 million
(later revised to $139 million) to provide humanitarian
assistance to 750,000 people in priority areas over the
first three months.

57

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

OCHA-managed firstresponse mechanisms
OCHA augments first-response capacities at the immediate onset of a crisis or when a protracted crisis situation
escalates. In 2016, OCHA played a key role in operational
coordination through three priority areas: rapid response,
preparedness and partnership.
Rapid response
OCHA ensures that coordination mechanisms are rapidly established upon request of the Governments of the
affected people and the UN system in all major emergencies. OCHA ensures that its rapid response capability is met
through the timely deployment of trained staff and equipment. Key achievements of the rapid response services in
2016 include the following:
—— In 2016, 13 UNDAC missions were carried out in 12
countries, including Ecuador, Fiji, Haiti, Iraq and Paraguay. During the year, 98 UNDAC members and 25
support staff were mobilized, contributing to the rapid
establishment of on-site coordination and assessments, support to national emergency management
authorities, HCTs and RC/HCs, and the development of
Flash Appeals.
—— The International Search and Rescue Advisory Group
(INSARAG), a life-saving network of 80 countries and
organizations dedicated to urban search-and-rescue
operations, ensured minimum standards and the preparedness of at-risk countries to respond. INSARAG proved
its unique capabilities when a 7.8-magnitude earthquake
struck Ecuador on 16 April. Search-and-rescue teams
from around the Americas deployed to the affected
areas immediately, providing life-saving assistance and
working according to common global standards and
guidelines, coordinated by the local emergency management authority and an UNDAC team.
—— The Virtual On-Site Operations Coordination Centre is a
real-time online coordination platform that allows information exchange early in an emergency. It was activated
in 37 sudden-onset disasters to facilitate information

exchange and coordination among international actors
in the first disaster-response phase.
—— In 2016, the added value of effective humanitarian
civil-military coordination (CMCoord) was prominent in
Iraq, Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan, Syria and Yemen.
In these situations of armed conflict, humanitarian
organizations operated in the same geographic space
as national and foreign military forces. OCHA-trained
CMCoord officers sought to represent humanitarian priorities and distinguish the roles and responsibilities of
each actor to support coordinated, principled and safe
humanitarian access to the affected people.
—— In terms of response to environmental emergencies,
OCHA’s partnership with the UN Environment brought
together 15 environmental experts to support eight
countries on environmental emergency preparedness
and response. The environmental expertise was mobilized as part of the UNDAC mission to Mosul, Iraq, to
develop a response plan in view of a potential collapse
of the Mosul Dam.
Preparedness
In 2016, OCHA trained more than 800 responders and
experts in humanitarian coordination. A number of disaster
managers were trained in response methodology through
the joint Jordan-Israel-Palestine project to foster cooperation across organizations in the region.
OCHA also coordinated various emergency simulations to
improve how organizations and the humanitarian system
respond to natural disasters and complex emergencies.
OCHA’s continued roll out of the ERP approach enabled
the humanitarian community to proactively prepare for
crises requiring a coordinated international response. In
2016, the ERP approach was updated or introduced in 55
countries that had ongoing relief operations or were at high
risk of crisis.
Partnership
OCHA maintains partnerships with a variety of organizations, NGOs, private sector companies, UN agencies
and Member State networks that provide specialist and
technical knowledge, services and support capabilities to
rapid responses, complementing the work of the UN and
Governments.

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Humanitarian Financing

In 2016, OCHA managed 18 CBPFs, which
are country-specific funds that allow donors to pool their contributions to meet the
most critical humanitarian needs identified in
HRPs. During the year, OCHA continued to
improve its management of CBPFs, including
its ability to manage risks and ensure proper
oversight and accountability. To better support CBPF grant-management processes and
to provide transparency, OCHA improved its
Grant Management System with the addition
of an online Business Intelligence platform
(gms.unocha.org/bi) to present real-time
contributions and grant information.

About 65 per cent of these allocations were
disbursed to NGOs, including 18 per cent
($129 million) directly to national and local
NGOs, making CBPFs their largest source
of direct funding. Another 35 per cent was
allocated to UN agencies, and the remaining
1 per cent supported the efforts of Red Cross/
Red Crescent organizations. The Haiti Humanitarian Fund, which was critical to the
2010 earthquake response, was closed in 2016
and replaced by other funding mechanisms.

As a fund for all and by all, CERF continued
to be one of the fastest and largest enablers of
life-saving humanitarian action for people afDonors contributed a record $704 million fected by conflict and natural disasters around
though CBPFs in 2016. Seven top-ten do- the world. During the year, CERF allocated
nors increased their contributions, and five $439 million to support 445 projects in 47
Member States (Canada, Cyprus, Qatar, Saudi countries. More than half of its 2016 total
Arabia and the United States) returned as funding, or $289 million, allowed humanicontributors. This reflects the international
community’s growing recognition of CBPledging Conference:
PFs as flexible, timely and inclusive funding mechanisms that support the delivery
Supporting Syria and the
of a more effective, principled and coordiRegion: London 2016
nated response.
CBPFs were instrumental to the delivery
of WHS and Grand Bargain commitments,
including support for national and local responders, improved transparency, more flexible funding and promotion of cash-based
programming. Following the WHS, the
UN Secretary-General stressed the critical
role of CBPFs in his Agenda for Humanity,
calling on donors to increase the proportion
of humanitarian appeal funding channelled
through CBPFs to 15 per cent by 2018.
During the year, CBPFs accounted for 8.6
per cent of the $8.1 billion received against
common response plans in the 18 countries
with active funds. They ensured that funding went to locally prioritized programmes
for maximum impact. The funds allocated
$713 million to 635 partners to support some
1,300 critical humanitarian projects, providing millions of people with health care, food
aid, clean water, shelter and other assistance.

On 4 February 2016, Germany, Kuwait, Norway, the UK
and the UN co-hosted the Supporting Syria and the Region: London 2016 conference. OCHA led the UN-related planning and implementation. The successful
conference marked a step change in the international
community’s response to the Syria crisis. The conference brought together more than 60 Member States,
including about 30 Heads of State/Government, as
well as international organizations, businesses, civil
society, Syrians and people affected by the conflict.
They agreed on a comprehensive new approach on
how we respond to this protracted crisis by focusing
on jobs, economic opportunities and education, thereby giving people hope and skills for the future and a
means to support themselves. The conference raised
unprecedented levels of funding. More than $12 billion—the largest amount ever raised in a single day for
a humanitarian crisis—was pledged for people affected by the crisis. A total of $6.1 billion was pledged for
2016, and a further $6 billion for 2017-2020 for longerterm support. By the end of 2016, 90 per cent of the
original pledges for 2016 had been met, allowing
partners to deliver vital humanitarian aid to millions
of people in need in Syria and neighbouring countries.
Progress has also been made on the conference commitments by refugee-hosting countries.

59

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

60

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

More than half of CERF’s annual funding was
disbursed to provide urgent food assistance
($100.4 million), critical health care ($79 million) and emergency shelter and relief items
($55 million). Among UN agencies, WFP
received the largest total amount of CERF
The humanitarian crisis in Iraq received the funding for the year ($122 million), followed
largest portion of CERF’s total allocations. by UNICEF ($105.4 million) and UNHCR
More than $33.3 million enabled human- ($72.7 million).
itarian partners to respond quickly to increasing needs in Fallujah, Mosul and other In line with the aspirations set out in the
Grand Bargain, CERF is flexible and unearaffected areas.
marked, and it facilitates a collective and straThe second-highest total allocation of $28.2 tegic humanitarian response. As with CBPFs,
million supported humanitarian operations CERF reduced its management costs from 3
in Uganda, helping hundreds of thousands of to 2 per cent.
refugees fleeing escalating conflict and violence in South Sudan and from DRC. Since At the forefront of promoting transparency
the crisis began in 2013, CERF has allocated in aid delivery, CERF tracked and published
almost $220 million to provide assistance the “second layer” of its grant implementato people in South Sudan and South Suda- tion. This reflects funding from recipient
nese refugees, and host communities in DRC, UN agencies to their implementing partners,
Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan and Uganda. In 2016, thereby providing full transparency of CERF
CERF allocated almost $83 million to support funding. In December 2016, the UN General
an estimated 1.1 million people affected by Assembly endorsed the Secretary-General’s
call to expand CERF’s annual funding target
the crisis and in urgent need of aid.
to $1 billion by 2018.
tarian partners to immediately jump-start or
scale up urgent aid in new or rapidly deteriorating emergencies, while $150 million was
allocated to sustain humanitarian operations
in underfunded and protracted crises.

London, UK
Former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon addresses the opening
plenary at the Supporting Syria and the Region conference.
Credit: Adam Brown/Crown Copyright

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

The Syria Pledging
Conference in London raised
the largest amount ever
raised in a single day for a
humanitarian crisis.

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

CBPFs

CERF

Country-Based Pooled Funds (CBPFs) enable humanitarian
partners operating in countries affected by natural disasters
and armed conflict to deliver principled, timely and effective
life-saving assistance to people who need it most. They
allow donors to pool their contributions into single, unearmarked funds to support local humanitarian efforts. Funds
are allocated through an inclusive and transparent process
in support of priorities set out in Humanitarian Response
Plans. This ensures that funding is available and prioritized
locally by those closest to people in need. Funding is directly available to national and international NGOs, UN agencies
and Red Cross/Red Crescent organizations. CBPFs are locally managed by OCHA under the leadership of the HC and
under the oversight of an Advisory Board representing the
wider humanitarian community.

Established by the UN General Assembly in 2005, the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) delivers funding
quickly to humanitarian responders to kick-start, scale up or
sustain humanitarian operations. Since then, it has become
one of the fastest and most effective ways to support rapid
humanitarian response for people affected by conflict and
natural disasters around the world. Managed by OCHA on
behalf of the Secretary-General, CERF receives voluntary
contributions from donors into a single fund with a $450
million annual funding target. The CERF secretariat is responsible for ensuring that the funds are allocated properly
and disbursed in a timely manner, and that use of the funds
is reported appropriately and transparently. The CERF Advisory Group provides policy guidance to the Secretary-General on the use and impact of the Fund.

$713M allocated
18 CBPFs1
22 Member States and other donors

$439M2 allocated
47 CERF-recipient countries
54 Member States and other donors

1

The 18 CBPFs include Haiti, which was closed in 2016.

2

$289M rapid response | $150M underfunded emergencies

In 2016, CERF responded to a worsening global displacement crisis by
allocating two thirds of its funds ($311 million) to support operations
targeting IDPs, refugees or host communities

Democratic People's
Republic of Korea

Jordan

Iraq
Afghanistan

Libya

Myanmar

Haiti
Mali

Niger
Nigeria

Ecuador

Côte
d'Ivoire

Cameroon

Chad
CAR

Eritrea Yemen
Sudan
South
Sudan

Ethiopia

Uganda
Congo DRC
Angola

Kenya

Tanzania

Djibouti

Viet Nam
Sri Lanka

Somalia
Rwanda
Burundi
Fiji

Malawi
Swaziland

Madagascar

Lesotho

$30M

CAR - Central African Republic
DRC - Democratic Republic of the Congo

$20M

$10M

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

CERF

CBPF
Iraq
Yemen
South Sudan
Turkey1
Ethiopia
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Afghanistan
Syria
Somalia
Sudan
Central African Republic
Uganda
Lebanon
Republic of the Sudan
Nigeria
Jordan2
Chad
Mali
Democratic People's Republic of Korea
Burundi
United Republic of Tanzania
Libya
Haiti
Rwanda
Myanmar
occupied Palestinian territory
Fiji
Angola
Ecuador
Pakistan
Madagascar
Cuba
Niger
Kenya
Bangladesh
Guatemala
Lesotho
Papua New Guinea
Mozambique
Sri Lanka
Cameroon
Viet Nam
Swaziland
Guinea
Mongolia
Congo
Colombia
Eritrea
Djibouti
Côte d'Ivoire
Nepal
Malawi
Timor-Leste
Lao People's Democratic Republic

Rapid Response

$88.29M
94.07
82.39
93.31
60.52
57.64
39.75
44.14
30.7
38.78
22.06

$33.35M
2.00
20.82

CERF

Underfunded Emergencies

$12.99M

10.99
11.00

9.49
5.59
9.78
12.89
2.99
10.30

9.00
18.00

17.64
23.48
9.38
9.99

6.99

27.44

11.86

10.00
16.00
8.00
12.99
10.99
11.99

5.05
1.50

5.56
8.16

10.38
4.22
3.57

5.00

8.02
7.99
7.50
6.29
5.99
5.35
4.99
0.96
4.89
4.83
4.78
4.74
4.68
4.32
4.19
3.90
3.14
2.97
2.44
2.37

4.00

2.12
2.00
1.97
1.97
1.94
1.44
0.85
0.33
2

TOTAL
$121.64M
109.06
103.21
93.31
81.01
74.23
49.54
44.14
43.59
38.78
34.04
28.30
27.44
24.64
23.48
21.24
19.99
16.00
13.06
12.99
12.49
11.99
10.38
9.22
9.13
8.16
8.02
7.99
7.50
6.29
5.99
5.35
4.99
4.96
4.89
4.83
4.78
4.74
4.68
4.32
4.19
3.90
3.14
2.97
2.44
2.37
2.12
2.00
1.97
1.97
1.94
1.44
0.85
0.33

1
For cross-border operations into Syria
Including for cross-border operations into Syria

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

Grand Bargain
At the World Humanitarian Summit in May 2016, donors
and humanitarian partners made public an agreement on a
Grand Bargain that will help to place more means into the
hands of people in need by accumulating up to $1 billion in
efficiency savings for humanitarian action over the next five
years. The Grand Bargain comprises 51 concrete commitments designed to strengthen the humanitarian system
through more efficient, transparent, accountable and
effective ways of working beyond the Summit. The commitments span 10 thematic areas or work streams: greater
financial transparency, more support to national and local
responders, increased cash-based assistance, a reduction
in duplication and management costs, strengthened needs
assessments, a ‘participation revolution’ to better include
beneficiaries in decision-making, a move towards multi-year
humanitarian planning and funding, less earmarking in aid
allocations, simplification of reporting requirements, and
enhanced engagement between humanitarian and development actors.
The realization of the Grand Bargain will require multi-faceted engagement, contributions and concrete actions. Since
the launch of the initiative, OCHA has taken a whole-of-organization approach to implement its share of commitments. Activities to achieve the commitments, many of
which are related to OCHA’s core areas of work, have been
mainstreamed into OCHA’s Field Effectiveness workplans,
in line with Goal 1 of the Strategic Framework. Furthermore,
OCHA is leveraging its facilitation, advocacy and coordination functions at the global and field levels to achieve the vision articulated by the Grand Bargain. By co-convening with
ECHO the Grand Bargain Needs Assessments work stream,
OCHA aims to contribute to the delivery of an intersectoral
analysis model for needs assessments in the context of crisis, as it remains a priority for supporting the response and
coordinating donor and partner action.
The Grand Bargain also provides the opportunity to scale
up the use of cash-based programming according to work
stream 3 and contribute to better coordination in its delivery.
The large-scale use of cash-transfer programming in response to Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines and throughout
new emergencies has added substantially to the increasing
body of evidence showing that it can be a highly efficient,
effective and accountable means of meeting the needs of
crisis-affected people. To ensure that cash-based assistance is effectively coordinated in the field, OCHA identified cash focal points in each country office and provided
training to staff to strengthen their understanding of the
technical and strategic issues of cash programming and
coordination. Field offices have supported cash coordina-

tion in a number of contexts, including Iraq, Myanmar, Nepal,
Pakistan, the Philippines, Ukraine and, more recently, Somalia and Yemen.
Responding to the Grand Bargain focus on support to the
national first responders work stream 2, CBPFs allocated
$713 million in 2016, of which $129 million (18 per cent)
was directly allocated to national NGOs. This is almost double the net amount recorded in the previous two years. The
participation of national NGOs has been increased in global
CBPF coordination mechanisms.
CERF also embodies many of the aspirations set out in
the Grand Bargain: it provides a unique global source of
fast, flexible and unearmarked humanitarian funding (work
stream 8) at the humanitarian community’s disposal, and it
facilitates collective and strategic humanitarian response
by country-level actors.
Since the adoption of the Grand Bargain and under work
stream 1 (transparency), OCHA invested in the improvement
of the financial reporting system, particularly FTS, allowing
donors to see where their money goes. A new version of
the FTS platform was launched in January 2017, which supports the tracking of pass-through funding, IATI reporting
and greater visibility of unearmarked donations. The FTS
website has been continuously updated with additional
features to improve accessibility and ease of use, such as
the ability to embed charts and directly access their underlying data.

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

CBPFs and the
Localization of Aid
In 2016, CBPFs were instrumental in ensuring greater localization of aid—a key commitment of the WHS.
During the year, CBPFs were the largest source of direct international funding for national NGOs, receiving 18 per cent
($129 million) of the $713 million allocated that year. An additional $37 million was sub-granted through UN agencies
and international NGOs, bringing total CBPF funding to local
responders to more than $166 million (23 per cent).
CBPFs also promoted the equitable inclusion of local actors
in the collective prioritization, programming and delivery of
humanitarian assistance, and they leveraged the comparative advantages of local and national NGOs.

CBPFs improved aid delivery in besieged and hard-to-reach
areas, such as Aleppo, by providing predictable and sustainable direct funding to Syrian NGOs with reliable access
inside the country.
Beyond just access to funding, OCHA has used CBPF
grant processes to build local actors’ capacity, and it has
encouraged UN agencies and international NGOs to work
in partnership with local responders in the delivery of their
CBPF-funded projects. For example, the Turkey Humanitarian Fund, which funds cross-border operations into Syria,
encouraged international partners to include activities for
capacity-building components for local counterparts in their
grant applications.

With CBPF support, local actors demonstrated the added
value of their proximity and access to affected people, understanding of needs, and local knowledge of culture, language, territory and social networks. In Syria, for example,

Syria $44.1M

Iraq $88.3M

Lebanon $27.4M
Afghanistan
$39.8 M

Turkey1
$93.3M
oPt $8.2M
Sudan
$38.8M
South Sudan
$82.4M
Colombia
$2.1M

Central
African
Republic
$22.1M

Democratic
Republic of
the Congo
$57.6M

1

For cross-border operations into Syria

2

Including for cross-border operations into Syria

For cross-border operations into Syria

1

Including for cross-border operations into Syria

2

Pakistan
$6.3M

Jordan2 $11.9M

Yemen
$94.1M
Somalia
$30.7M

Ethiopia
$60.5M

Myanmar
$5.6M

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

66

STRATEGIC GOAL ONE: FIELD EFFECTIVENESS

Protection and Access to Assistance

In 2016, OCHA operated in many complex
emergency settings where the human rights
of affected people were routinely violated
and they were unable to regularly access assistance. OCHA worked hard to achieve its
mandated responsibility to improve humanitarian access for the effective delivery of assistance and protection. Its advocacy and coordination to advance the protection of affected
people and their access to assistance required
systematic monitoring, analysis and the development of context-appropriate strategies
to overcome constraints.

CBPFs also funded critical protection-related
activities, such as the clinical management of
rape and the reunification of children separated from their families.
In 2016, a number of advisers were deployed
at the global level to support global protection
processes and the development of global protection policies and tools, including the IASC
Protection Policy (2016) and the operational
guidance for developing strategies on durable
solutions for displacement.

OCHA coordinated and drafted the Secretary-General’s report on the protection of
civilians in armed conflict, which, since
2015, is prepared annually for the Security
Council. OCHA briefed Council members
on country-specific situations through the
Informal Expert Group on Protection. In
light of growing violations against medical
workers and facilities, the Security Council
adopted resolution 2286 (2016), after which
OCHA coordinated with partners to draft
Advisers were deployed at country and re- recommendations of the Secretary-General
gional levels to support protection, coordi- on the protection of health care in conflict.
nation and advocacy efforts to promote the
application of normative frameworks, and OCHA actively contributed to the develto advance the protection of affected pop- opment and dissemination of an IASC proulations and access negotiations. With the tection policy. It worked with the Global
support of ProCap advisers, protection HCT Protection Cluster to create practical guidstrategies were developed in CAR, Chad, ance on integrating standards on protection,
South Sudan and Yemen through consulta- access and displacement in a HCT protective inter-agency processes. OCHA-managed tion strategy.
OCHA continued to host the Inter-Agency
Standby Capacity Support Unit, which serves
as the secretariat for the Protection Standby
Capacity (ProCap) and Gender Standby Capacity projects. In 2016, the ProCap project
deployed 21 senior protection advisers to
provide technical guidance to humanitarian
leadership and regional bodies on the Centrality of Protection.

Cameroon
Refugee children
who have fled from
Boko Haram attacks
in Nigeria in a
school in Minawao
refugee camp.
Credit: UNHCR/
Alexis Huguet

In partnership with the University of Oxford, OCHA finalized guidance on the law
relating to humanitarian relief operations
in situations of armed conflict. This practical
publication provides guidance to a variety of
actors, including parties to armed conflict,
States, humanitarian organizations, the Security Council and the General Assembly. It
enhances understanding of the rules of international law, informs policies and advocates
strategies for improving humanitarian access
to conflict-affected populations. The guidance was distributed to OCHA country offices
and launched in Geneva and New York.
Bangkok, Thailand
Simulation exercise during the Information Management Preparedness and
Coordination Training for Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean.
Credit: OCHA/Joel Opulencia

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

By preparing for a disaster
before it strikes, OCHA can
help minimize the loss of
life and suffering and
other related costs.

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

68

STRATEGIC GOAL TWO: FIT FOR THE FUTURE

STRATEGIC GOAL TWO: FIT FOR THE FUTURE

In 2016, OCHA continued its outreach with
Member States, regional organizations,
NGOs and the private sector, which contributed to the engagement of a more diverse
set of actors in supporting the multilateral humanitarian system. OCHA supported,
among others, the Government of South Africa in developing its external humanitarian
aid policy, strategy and institutions, and it is
now poised to be a significant actor and supporter of OCHA’s perspectives in key forums,
including the African Union and the BRICS
group. The policy framework consolidated
humanitarian aid budget lines, streamlined
decision-making across the Government,
identified aid capacity, brought a focus to the
key areas of support, and strongly reinforced
multilateralism as a prime tenet embedding
and highlighting instruments and practices of
the UN-led multilateral humanitarian system.

trainings in France, Morocco, Qatar, Switzerland, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates.
Through its three liaison offices in Abu Dhabi,
Addis Ababa and Brussels, OCHA intensified
its engagement with the EU, the AU and the
Gulf. In Brussels, OCHA engaged or strengthened the dialogue with a more diverse range
of EU institutions, specifically at the political
level, including the European Council and the
European Parliament. The diversification of
partnerships produced tangible outcomes for
OCHA in its consultations on key resolutions
and policies, and widened its range of interlocutors for debating issues and influencing
political orientations.
In Addis Ababa, OCHA supported the AU
in the development of the African Union
Humanitarian Policy Framework and the

Yemen
OCHA coordinated
assistance for 5.6
million people in
Yemen.
Credit: OCHA/Giles
Clarke

Using a series of high-profile events throughout the year, OCHA helped to raise awareness
of humanitarian crises and funding needs,
and to engage and strengthen its global partnerships. In the margins of the seventy-first
UN General Assembly, OCHA organized and
co-organized several high-level meetings on
key crises and issues, including the participation of the UN Secretary-General, the Deputy
Secretary-General, three Heads of State and
many ministers.

Common African Position on Humanitarian Effectiveness. It also had an important
role in drafting and operationalizing the AU
Policy Guideline on the Role of the African
Standby Force and in Humanitarian Action
and Natural Disaster Support.

In the Gulf, OCHA supported the King Salman Centre (KSC) for Relief and Humanitarian Aid with the development of the
Centre’s humanitarian priorities and plans
for 2016. OCHA provided strategic and techOCHA helped bring an additional 180 NGOs, nical advice on the preparation of the plans,
mainly from developing countries, into the collection and analysis of information, and
OCHA-coordinated system by facilitating on-the-job training to relevant KSC staff.
OCHA further supported the work of the Sec-

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC GOAL TWO: FIT FOR THE FUTURE

retary-General’s Humanitarian Envoy in un- humanitarian-development nexus; prepardertaking public and private advocacy for the edness; and disaster displacement.
multilateral humanitarian system in the Gulf.
Throughout 2016, OCHA supported the
OCHA fostered greater engagement with meetings of the Dialogue for Humanitarithe private sector to support humanitarian an Partnership, an informal, cross-regional
action during 2016. This included supporting group of 25 Member States that discuss and
21 global business consultations in the lead provide guidance on operational and policy
up to the WHS and securing the participa- issues of concern to international humanitarition of more than 450 senior-level business an actors. OCHA also supported the Chairs of
representatives at the Summit. As a result, 47 the Humanitarian Liaison Working Group—
private sector partners made commitments an informal group of Member States and
across all areas of the humanitarian agenda. humanitarian partners—in Geneva and New
After the WHS, OCHA supported the estab- York by organizing meetings on operational
lishment of 10 national business networks and thematic issues.
worldwide through the Connecting Business initiative, the launch of Principles on
Public-Private Cooperation in Humanitari- Interoperability
an Payments, and the launch of the Steering
Group of the Insurance Development Forum. In 2016, OCHA continued to work with a variety of actors and partners to optimize the inOCHA supported the 2016 ECOSOC Human- ternational humanitarian response to affected
itarian Affairs Segment (HAS) in New York, people’s needs. The organization facilitated
which was the first opportunity to discuss the the compatibility and coordination between
outcomes of the WHS in an intergovernmen- various humanitarian response mechanisms
tal forum. Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eli- and actors, including those of military sysasson gave keynote remarks on how to collec- tems and technical agencies. The Humanitaritively strengthen humanitarian action in light an Networks and Partnerships Week brought
of the progress shown at the WHS. OCHA together more than 800 experts in emergency
worked with Member States on participation preparedness and response from a myriad of
in the general debate, three high-level panels institutions and organizations to exchange
organized around WHS outcome topics. It information and identify opportunities for
also coordinated 20 side events by partners synergies. In total, 67 Governments, 22 UN
on numerous issues. ECOSOC HAS discus- agencies and international organizations,
sions set the stage for the annual General 10 regional organizations, 53 NGOs, 35 priAssembly humanitarian omnibus resolution, vate companies and 25 academic institutions
to which OCHA provided secretariat support came together to initiate collective actions for
against a complex backdrop of developments strengthened interoperability. The partnerin various humanitarian crises.
With the OCHA-drafted reports of the Secretary-General on strengthening coordination and international cooperation on humanitarian aid in natural disasters as starting
points, advances were made in corresponding
General Assembly resolutions. This included
resolutions in negotiated language on humanitarian financing; IHL and protection;
cash programming; localization; data; the

New York, USA
ASG Kyung-wha
Kang (left) signs
a memorandum
of understanding
for the Republic
of Korea’s core
contribution to
OCHA for 20172019.
Credit: OCHA/
Charlotte Cans

69

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

70

STRATEGIC GOAL TWO: FIT FOR THE FUTURE

ship between UN Environment and OCHA
was leveraged to build synergies between
development and humanitarian actors on
disaster waste, and on chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear response, as well as
to streamline ongoing humanitarian response
work with that of environment and climate
change actors. Through an established peer
process, the INSARAG network has classified
more than 48 international USAR teams for
international deployments.

ation, management and subsequent monitoring of the strategic frameworks, which
are at the heart of every HRP. This highly
structured information—which should link to
underlying needs, and to which implementation activities and funding should align—was
previously managed through Word and Excel.

OCHA’s engagement with the World Bank
intensified in 2016, particularly through
OCHA’s formal inclusion into the UN/
WB Partnership for Crisis-affected States.
In the context of the 2030 Agenda, and in Through this mechanism, OCHA has been
recognition of record levels of humanitar- able to help develop the World Bank’s inian need and appeals, OCHA undertook itiatives to increase its investment in crisis
significant efforts to propose a model to- contexts, including in progressing the New
wards reducing and ending need, risk and Way of Working.
vulnerability: the “New Way of Working.”
OCHA, the UN Secretary-General, eight UN In co-lead with the WHS secretariat, OCHA
agencies, the World Bank and IOM signed a launched the Global Alliance on HumaniWorld Humanitarian Summit Commitment tarian Innovation (GAHI) at the WHS. The
to Action to Transcend Humanitarian-De- GAHI, with the support of select Member
velopment Divides through a New Way of States, aims to be a connector of resources
Working. The concept of working among for humanitarian innovation. Ahead of the
diverse actors based on a comparative ad- GAHI’s launch, OCHA convened a consultavantage towards collective outcomes over tion in Berkeley, California, with more than
multiple years is the core of this New Way 30 partners to discuss creating a pathway for
of Working, and it has its roots in OCHA businesses to engage in developing innovaanalysis over recent years. OCHA spearhead- tive solutions to humanitarian challenges,
ed its operationalization with key partners, how to adopt a user-centred design approach
including by providing support to country for innovation, and financing for innovation.
and regional offices in planning processes.
OCHA also led discussions on innovation and
urban response at the Classy Collaborative
conference in Boston; innovation and the
Innovation
WHS at the HumTech Conference in Boston;
and innovation to reduce crises at the Science
In May 2016, a major upgrade to the KoBo Technology and Innovation Forum at the UN.
platform was released. KoBo is a community mobile data-collection tool optimized OCHA also worked with Microsoft and the
for humanitarian use that supports the rapid UN Office of Information and Communicacollection and processing of primary data for tions Technology to bring together software
needs assessment and monitoring activities. developers at Microsoft’s offices in New York
Users across the humanitarian community over a week to support OCHA ROMENA.
have praised the tool for how it improves This “hackfest” event resulted in the develthe user experience.
opment of a prototype data-collection and
analysis tool that displays analyses of the huThe Response Planning and Monitoring manitarian situation on heat maps for the
(RPM) tool fills a critical gap in the HPC Libya context.
information cycle by bringing online the cre-

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

World Humanitarian
Data and Trends
World Humanitarian Data and Trends is an annual OCHA
publication that highlights major trends in the nature of
humanitarian crises, their underlying causes and drivers,
and the actors that participate in crisis prevention, response
and recovery. Beyond providing statistics, the report uses
infographics to display trend analyses that show how the
humanitarian landscape is evolving and how the humanitarian system can be more effective in a rapidly changing world.
The report is structured in three main sections: The Year in
Review, which provides an overview of the humanitarian
landscape in terms of funding, capacity, crises and appeals;
Regional Perspectives; and Trends, Challenges and Opportunities, which provides case studies on issues that impact
humanitarian operations. The 2016 edition focused on the
Agenda for Humanity, launched at the World Humanitarian
Summit held in May 2016. It aimed to showcase elements
of the Agenda by highlighting issues such as the protection
of health care in emergencies, gender-based violence, disability in humanitarian action and financing local actors.

A highlight of the 2016 edition was an original case study
that looked at the development profile of people in humanitarian need. In 2015, OCHA and its partners estimated that
125 million people needed humanitarian assistance. What
if these 125 million people were a single country in need?
What would that country look like? And what future prospects would its people have? Life expectancy in this country
would be 24 years shorter than the global average, and only
one third of children would complete primary school. This
case study was enhanced by an interactive visualization
developed by OCHA’s Humanitarian Data Exchange as well
as a social media campaign. The report was launched by
former Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson at the Global
Humanitarian Policy on 12 December 2016, and it was presented at a dedicated event during Humanitarian Networks
and Partnerships Week in Geneva. This report continues to
be one of the most widely read OCHA products among academics, practitioners, Member States and other partners. It
is one part of OCHA’s efforts to improve data and analysis
on humanitarian situations worldwide.
It is accessible through its companion microsite
www.unocha.org/datatrends2016. Printed copies have been
disseminated through OCHA’s regional and country offices.

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

ReliefWeb marks 20 years of
humanitarian information service
ReliefWeb, the humanitarian information service provided
by OCHA, turned 20 in 2016. Endorsed by a UN General
Assembly resolution in 1997, ReliefWeb provides comprehensive coverage of humanitarian crises on a 24/7 basis
by teams located in Bangkok, Nairobi and New York. It
currently holds almost 700,000 reports and maps on global
humanitarian crises and disasters.
2016 saw a record 6 million users of the website, an
increase of 4.5 per cent from 2015 and nearly double the
number of users 10 years ago. Most of these unique users
came from Africa, which saw a 17.5 per cent jump from
the previous year, confirming the continent as ReliefWeb’s
top user base. There was also a remarkable increase in
the number of users from the Middle East, notably Turkey
(+35 per cent) and Jordan (+15 per cent). One third of visitors tend to come from within countries with humanitarian operations.

More than 6 million users visited ReliefWeb in 2016

ReliefWeb redesigned its topic pages, which offer the latest
curated information on gender, humanitarian financing,
safety and security, as well as regional humanitarian issues
such as the European refugee/migrant crisis.
During its 20 years, ReliefWeb has harnessed new technologies to improve the accessibility of the information
it collects and curates. In 2016, it launched four mobile
applications to enhance users’ access to key humanitarian
information: they can now get the latest videos and updates
on crises, headlines and jobs on their smartphone using
iOS or Android.
Also released in 2016, the ReliefWeb Data Snapshots yield
insights into content and users. The collected data provides
an array of information ranging from the type of reports
published, to the topic and source of information, to the
language and gender of the users.

ReliefWeb
developed a number
of applications that
facilitate the work
of the humanitarian
community

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION

73

MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION

People Management is OCHA’s first objective
in the 2014-2017 Management Plan. In 2016,
OCHA continued to perform its key function
of ensuring first-response capability through
flexible staffing modalities to prepare, train
and deploy specialized staff.

crease and reduce resources in a timely and
efficient manner.

In addition to the surge deployments managed out of each OCHA regional office,
OCHA’s corporate roster mechanisms were
used to deploy 144 people covering a range
of profiles to 32 countries. They contributed nearly 17,000 surge days, equivalent to
65 staff for the year. Surge deployments to
the L3 emergency response in Iraq received
the highest number of surge staff. OCHA
corporate emergencies in Ethiopia, Haiti
and Nigeria dominated other demands. The
surge mechanisms work together to help
respond quickly to new, escalating or unexpected needs, providing flexibility to in-

organizational design, management, operating modalities and staffing strategy to improve its organizational effectiveness and
efficiency. The Functional Review process
has unambiguously confirmed OCHA’s value and underscored OCHA’s critical role in
the humanitarian eco-system. The review
also identified a number of opportunities
and challenges that OCHA needed to address.
Following consensus reached at the OCHA
Global Management Retreat in August 2016,
OCHA’s senior management launched a
Change Management Process that is expected
to conclude in June 2017.

The Inter-Agency Protection and Gender
Standby Capacity mechanism worked closely
with the Norwegian Refugee Council, which
manages the roster. In 2016, 21 protection
OCHA’s surge mechanisms work together and 24 gender senior advisers were deployed
to get the right people with the right capac- to support HCs.
ity and skills wherever they are needed to
support an emergency response, be it a re- To adapt to the ever-changing global humansponse to a sudden-onset natural disaster, an itarian landscape, and in line with OCHA’s
escalation in a protracted emergency or an management plan to ensure that OCHA adds
unforeseen critical staffing gap. The UNDAC the highest value to humanitarian response,
system activated one or more of the three the USG launched a comprehensive Funccorporate surge roster mechanisms mobilized tional Review of OCHA in 2016. The review
to identify internal and external resources. processes included extensive consultations
During the year, 98 people were deployed with OCHA’s key humanitarian stakeholders
to 12 countries through the UNDAC system. as well as OCHA staff. It focused on OCHA’s
Somalia
Deployed OCHA
staff speak with
local community
members about their
humanitarian needs.
Credit: OCHA/Matija
Kovač

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

74

MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION

Middle East and North Africa
48 deployments
Iraq

26

Jordan

9

Egypt

4

Tunisia
Turkey

3
2

Syria

1

Yemen

1

Saudi Arabia

1

Afghanistan

1

Western and Central Africa
47 deployments
Nigeria

15

Burundi

6

Cameroon

6

Cabo Verde

SBPP

Natural
Disasters

7014

ASP

6153

ERR

UNDAC

111

Other

4

Chad

4

Guinea

Complex
Emergencies

3226

6

CAR**

100

3

Niger

1

Mali

1

DRC

1

Eastern and Southern Africa
39 deployments

31

1447

Ethiopia

11

Namibia

RESO

8

Sudan

339

7

South Sudan

3

Mozambique

3

Tanzania
Kenya

3
2

Angola

1

South Africa

1

Eastern and Southern Africa
68 deployments
Haiti

Jamaica
Ecuador

Syria Turkey

21

Paraguay

Ukraine
USA
Bahamas
Haiti

31

Ecuador

Jordan

Tunisia
Afghanistan
Iraq
Egypt
Mali Niger Chad
Saudi Arabia
Sudan Yemen
Guinea
Cabo Verde
Ethiopia
Nigeria
CAR
Kenya
South Sudan Timor-Leste
Cameroon
DRC Burundi Tanzania
Angola
Mozambique
Namibia
Paraguay
South Africa

6

Bahamas

Mongolia

4

Jamaica
Ukraine

4
2

Fiji

Asia/Paciﬁc
35 deployments

Vanuatu

Fiji

22

Vanuatu
30

5 deployments in USA for WHS
Central African Republic

*

**

15

5

11

Mongolia

1

Timor-Leste

1

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

75

MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION

SBPP

Stand-By Partnership
Programme
Launched in 2000
OCHA maintains agreements with 14
standby-partner organizations that
provide gratis skilled external personnel
for deployment to emergencies at
short notice.

58

OCHA's internal surge mechanism,
the ERR, consists of approximately 45
staff from a range of functional proﬁles
and duty stations. They are placed on
standby for a six-month period.

2000
4

19 39

FEMALE

ERR

Emergency Response Roster
Launched in 2008

2016
58

DEPLOYMENTS

MALE

670
deployments
in 17 years

56

DEPLOYMENTS

491
deployments
in 9 years

27 29

FEMALE

2016
56

2008
19

MALE

ASP

Associates Surge Pool
Launched in 2010
ASP members are experts who deploy
for OCHA on temporary appointments to
ﬁll critical surge needs and/or bridge the
gap until longer-term staff arrive. They
can deploy for three to six months
with the flexibility to extend for up
to 364 days.

27

DEPLOYMENTS

Two experienced OCHA staff are on
stand-by for deployments, spending
approximately 80 per cent of the time
on surge assignments.

UNDAC

United Nations Disaster
Assessment and Coordination
Launched in 1993
UNDAC teams deploy within 48 hours
of a sudden-onset emergency to
support early coordination and
needs assessments.

2016
27

176
deployments
in 7 years

12 15

FEMALE

RESO

Roaming Emergency
Surge Ofﬁcer
Launched in 2013

2010
1

MALE

3

DEPLOYMENTS

2

FEMALE

2013
12

23
deployments
in 4 years

1

MALE

98

DEPLOYMENTS

27 71

FEMALE

MALE

2016
3

2016
98
1993
5

1,503
deployments
in 24 years

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

76

FUNDING AND FINANCE
2016 Budget, Income and Expenditure

Income

OCHA’s extrabudgetary Programme budget
was $309 million at the beginning of 2016.
This was lower than the closing 2015 budget
of $334 million. OCHA’s 2015 budget was the
culmination of several years of operational
expansion, as OCHA adjusted to cope with
increased expectations amid ever-growing
needs and more complex humanitarian challenges. In 2002, just after its tenth anniversary, OCHA’s extrabudgetary programme
budget was $90.5 million. Ten years later,
in 2012, that budget had increased nearly
threefold to $268 million. OCHA’s budget
growth was accompanied by significantly
increased donor income (in national currencies), but adverse exchange-rate trends
meant that the US-dollar value of donor income stabilized over the last several years at
about $235 million. Gaps between income
and expenditure were covered over the last
few years by OCHA’s reserves and carry-over.

OCHA’s income in 2016 was $262.6 million,
the highest ever thanks to donors’ continued support, notably an additional investment of $36.4 million from seven donors
in OCHA’s Change Management Process.
OCHA reached the end of 2016 with $111.5
million in its closing balance, maintaining
the minimum level of reserves required to
operate for three months.
Flexibility

In 2016, OCHA received $101.8 million in
unearmarked funding from 29 donors—an
extremely important type of funding, without
which OCHA cannot operate seamlessly. The
largest contributor of unearmarked funding
was the United Kingdom’s Department for
International Development (DFID), contributing $31.6 million, about 31 per cent of total
unearmarked funding. A further $31.7 milTo cut expenditures, OCHA reduced its lion, or 31 per cent, was provided by Nordic
budget at midyear to $295 million. It planned donors (Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland
for a decreased 2017 extrabudgetary Pro- and Iceland). Australia, the Netherlands and
gramme budget and reinvigorated its fund- Ireland all contributed close to or above $5
raising efforts to diversify its donor base.
million in fully flexible funding.

M = Million

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

FUNDING AND FINANCE

OTHER

CASH
RESERVE
$57.6M
52%

(NON-PROGRAMMABLE)*

$30.4M
27%

EARMARKED
FUNDS

FUNDS THAT CAN
BE UTILISED IN 2017

CARRY-OVER

$23.5M
21%

250
$101.8M

200
UNEARMARKED
150
100
50

2013

$161.1M

The overall volume of unearmarked funding
has remained stable over the past two years at
more than $100 million. For an organization
such as OCHA, with 70 per cent of its expenditure related to staff costs, this minimum
level is vital in order to have sufficient levels
of flexible funding to cover all operations,
including so-called forgotten emergencies.

Includes contingency
fund ($4m); ASHI ($5.5m);
UNDP clearing account
($10.2m); unpaid pledges
($6.1m); refunds to donors
and UNDP ($4m) and other
($0.6m)

In 2016, unearmarked funding was critical for
OCHA to quickly respond to new or worsening crises, including Tropical Cyclone Winston in Fiji, the Ecuador earthquake, Hurricane Matthew in Haiti, and deteriorating
IDP crises in Libya (Sirt) and Iraq (Mosul).
Unearmarked funding was used throughout
the year to ensure that OCHA maintained an
independent presence and capacity to deliver
its core services in protracted complex emergencies, such as Afghanistan, DRC, Somalia
and Sudan. Unearmarked funding was also
essential to fill gaps in the funding of field
offices in between injections of earmarked
funding, ensuring seamless operations in the
field. Lastly, unearmarked funding allowed
OCHA to provide indispensable headquarters-based support to its field operations,

2015

2016

United Kingdom

31.6M

Sweden

14.9M

Norway
EARMARKED
61%

52%

48%

2013

M = Million
*

EARMARKED

2014

UNEARMARKED
39%

2014

2015

2016

Australia
Netherlands

8.4M
6.4M
5.7M

Ireland

4.9M

Denmark

4.5M

Finland

3.8M

United States

3.7M

New Zealand

3.5M

Others
M = Million

14.4M

77

M = Million

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

78

FUNDING AND FINANCE

including in programme cycle management,
surge staff support and other rapid response
tools, preparedness and IM. By year end,
more than half of all unearmarked funding
(54 per cent) was allocated to field operations.
Timeliness

In 2016, nearly 21 per cent of contributions
were received in the first quarter, with 29 per
cent in the second quarter, 18 per cent in the

Pending payment
100%
75%
3rd QUARTER
50%
2nd QUARTER

25%

2013

2014

2015

2016

OCHA Donor Support Group
The OCHA Donor Support Group (ODSG) is a group of donors
that was created in 1998. It is the main forum for interaction
between OCHA and key donor Governments on a range of issues
related to policy, management and finance. Under the leadership
of a Chair, who sits for a year, the ODSG comprises 27 members
and supports OCHA in fulfilling its mandate. The criteria for
ODSG membership includes the commitment to provide continued and substantial financial support to OCHA, and the willingness to provide political support aimed at further strengthening
OCHA. In 2016, ODSG members provided more than 99 per cent
($250 million) of OCHA’s total income from Member States. As
of the end of 2016, the group consisted of the following members: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, New
Zealand, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea,
Russian Federation, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the United States and the
European Commission.

third quarter and 30 per cent in the last quarter (2 per cent remained unpaid at year end).
This distribution is comparable to previous
years. OCHA encourages early payment to
ensure it can proceed with quarterly cash allocations and thereby reduce transaction costs.
Predictability

In 2016, OCHA had a guaranteed income
of $80 million through 18 multi-year donor
agreements, as well as bridge funding to fill
the gap during the negotiation phase of the
subsequent agreement. Multi-year core funding agreements that expired in 2015 and 2016
were renegotiated (Luxembourg, New Zealand, the Netherlands and Switzerland), and
new multi-year agreements were signed with
Belgium, Canada and the Republic of Korea.
Diversity

In 2016, OCHA received contributions from
39 Member States and the EU, just one donor less than in 2015. In addition to contributions from the 27 members of the OCHA
Donor Support Group, OCHA received contributions from Bulgaria, China, the Czech
Republic, Georgia, Hungary, Iceland, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Malta, Monaco, the Philippines, Romania, Singapore and Thailand. As
with many other humanitarian organizations,
OCHA’s income remains heavily concentrated on its top donors, with half coming from
the top three donors and 81 per cent from the
top 10. OCHA will continue to make strong
efforts to diversify its donor base.

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

FUNDING AND FINANCE

2016 Expenditure

OCHA’s expenditure-implementation rate
reached 93 per cent under extrabudgetary
budget, with a 95 per cent implementation
rate in headquarters and 92 per cent in the
field. This is a higher level of implementation than in 2015, indicating that OCHA is
operating nearly at full capacity.
OCHA’s preliminary expenditure-implementation rate reached 92 per cent under
the Extrabudgetary Administrative Budget
of $31.8 million, while the preliminary expenditure-implementation rate for the Regular Budget reached 91 per cent approved at
$18 million, inclusive of the United Nations
Monitoring Mechanism for Syria.

Field-Based Humanitarian
Coordination

193.5M
70.8%

Direct HQ Support for
37.1M 13.6%
Field Coordination
FIELD XB BUDGET

64%

(PROGRAMME
Communication
and ACTIVITIES)
19.5M 7.1%
Information Management
Executive Direction
and Management
Partnerships

67%

10.5M 3.9%
6.7M 2.4%

HQ XB BUDGET
Policy and
Normative ACTIVITIES) 27%
(PROGRAMME
5.7M 2.1%

31%

Development

6%

5% common
REGULAR
Programme
cost BUDGET

0.5M 0.2%

2013

2014

2015

2016

M = Million

Field-Based Humanitarian
Coordination

Administrative activities

FIELD XB BUDGET
67%
Direct HQ(PROGRAMME
Support for
ACTIVITIES)13.6%
64%

Field Coordination

Communication and
Information Management
Executive Direction
and Management

31%

37.1M

19.5M 7.1%

Executive Direction
and Management

HQ XB BUDGET
27%
Partnerships
(PROGRAMME
ACTIVITIES)
6.7M 2.4%

2014

Programme common cost

2015

0.5M 0.2%

HQ
ACTIVITIESactivities
Administrative
$84M
29% Communication and
Information Management

4.9M 16.8%

Humanitarian
Financing Support

4.2M 14.2%

Executive Direction
and Management

6%
2016

19.9M 67.8% FIELD ACTIVITIES

0.4M 1.2%

Communication and
HQ ACTIVITIES
Information Management
$84M
Humanitarian
29%

Financing Support

10.5M 3.9%

Policy
5% and Normative
REGULAR BUDGET
5.7M 2.1%
Development

2013

193.5M
70.8%

$211M
71%

19.9M 67.8%
4.9M 16.8%
4.2M 14.2%
0.4M 1.2%

FIELD ACTIVITIES
$211M
71%

79

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

80

FUNDING AND FINANCE

2014 DONOR INCOME
Donor

2015 DONOR INCOME
US$

Donor

United Kingdom

39,279,384

United Kingdom

Sweden

31,898,313

United States

United States

30,060,015

Sweden

European Commission

24,394,920

European Commission

2016 DONOR INCOME
US$
43,209,174

Donor

US$

United States

49,320,000

39,800,462

United Kingdom

42,373,626

26,823,800

Sweden

36,631,502

19,024,524

European Commission**

21,261,019

Norway

16,957,656

Norway

13,443,344

Germany

15,249,535

Australia

11,683,939

Australia

9,360,949

Norway

14,875,779

Switzerland

8,980,287

Japan

8,776,081

Switzerland

9,563,712

Canada

8,855,471

Netherlands

8,745,557

Japan

8,678,075

Germany

7,961,003

Switzerland

8,530,123

Belgium

8,290,546

Netherlands

6,518,905

Germany

8,168,310

Australia

7,337,360

Japan

6,115,896

Saudi Arabia

8,000,000

Canada

5,969,019

Denmark

5,457,522

Canada

4,926,560

Netherlands

5,894,868

New Zealand

4,172,472

Denmark

4,811,949

Ireland

5,472,489

Finland

3,951,850

New Zealand

4,081,633

Denmark

4,460,303

Saudi Arabia

3,584,025

Finland

3,791,983

Finland

3,791,983

Kuwait

3,000,000

Belgium

3,673,967

New Zealand

3,462,604

Ireland

2,989,130

Ireland

2,985,197

Spain

1,387,347

Belgium

2,837,327

Kuwait

2,500,000

Korea, Republic of

1,350,000

United Arab Emirates

2,383,925

Korea, Republic of

1,500,000

France

1,132,503

France

1,375,516

United Arab Emirates

1,355,975

Russian Federation

850,000
809,740

Russian Federation

950,000

France

1,122,334

Luxembourg

Korea, Republic of

900,000

Thailand

1,000,000

Austria

653,623

Luxembourg

857,843

Turkey

1,000,000

Poland

558,645
500,000

Estonia

849,038

Russian Federation

1,000,000

Turkey

Italy

625,782

Morocco

1,000,000

Estonia***

319,037

Spain

619,579

Luxembourg

874,094

Malta

193,039

Poland

478,584

Estonia

797,294

Kazakhstan

150,000

Turkey

453,886

Spain

549,451

Thailand

100,000

Austria

122,449

Austria

536,462

Georgia

100,000

Iceland

100,000

Azerbaijan

500,000

Iceland

100,000
55,188

Argentina

90,000

Poland

450,956

Romania

Guyana

60,267

Trinidad and Tobago

250,000

Bulgaria

53,079

Kazakhstan

50,000

South Africa

118,362

Singapore

50,000

China

30,000

Iceland

100,000

Czech Republic

39,246

Monaco

27,586

Czech Republic

82,918

China

30,000

Cyprus

25,221

Malaysia

40,000

Monaco

27,933

Singapore

20,000

Singapore

40,000

United Arab Emirates

25,000

Subtotal 1

228,717,790

China

30,000

Hungary

22,124

8,206,428

Monaco

27,199

Philippines

20,000

UN and Other Agencies

238,610

Andorra

16,484

Kuwait

Private Donations

299,390

Afghanistan

Multi-Donor Funds

Subtotal 2
TOTAL 2014*

8,744,429
237,462,219

Subtotal 1
Multi-Donor Funds
UN and Other Agencies
Private Donations
Subtotal 2
TOTAL 2015

1,000
233,046,144
8,883,954
15,000
132,700
9,031,654

Subtotal 1
Multi-Donor Funds

150,212

Private Donations

100,214

Subtotal 2
TOTAL 2016

242,077,798

Due to retroactive implementation of IPSAS accounting standards, some 2015 donor income might have changed compared to what was published previously.

**

Total includes funding to OCHA office in Sudan (EUR2M) and ROWCA (EUR202,000), signed and received in 2016 but intended for 2017.

***

11,186,824

UN and Other Agencies

Totals include paid and pledged contributions.
Total donor income does not include transfers, including the transfer from the Italian pre-positioned fund of $1.1 million to the OCHA Syria office in 2016.
*

5,000
251,163,923

Due to International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS), contributions of $285,714 from Estonia, intended for 2016, were recorded in 2015.

11,437,249
262,601,173

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

FUNDING AND FINANCE

81

OCHA FINANCIAL STATUS AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016 (US$)
OCHA-Mandated Programme
and Administrative Activities

Programme Activities

Administrative Activities

Regular Budget

TOTAL

Opening Balance - 1 Jan 2016

92,737,110

-

-

92,737,110

262,601,173

-

18,098,055

280,699,228

355,338,283

-

18,098,055

373,436,338

-16,548,701

30,705,035

-

14,156,334

-257,079,709

-28,210,276

-16,544,303

-301,834,288

2016 Donor Contributions

1

Available Funds
Transfer of Programme Support Charges (PSC)

2

Direct Expenditure

3

-273,628,410

-28,210,276

-16,544,303

-318,382,989

Net Available Funds before Other Income,
adjustments, transfers, refunds

81,709,873

-

-

81,709,873

Other income, adjustments, transfers, refunds

29,779,226

-

-

29,779,226

111,489,099

-

1,553,752

113,042,851

18,751,989

-

-

18,751,989

111,489,099

-

1,553,752

113,042,851

Total Expenditure Charged against

4

Closing Balance

5

Increase / (Decrease) in opening balance
NET CLOSING BALANCE

1

For programme activities, includes paid contributions and unpaid pledges $6.1M, and excludes deferred income.

2

Transfer of PSC for Administrative Activities, includes PSC levied from programme activities, ERFs, and Specially Designated Contributions as well.

3

Includes disbursement and unliquidated obligations as at 31 December 2016.

For programme activities, expenditure charged against budget is the direct programme expenditure plus programme support transfers. For administrative and regular budget activities, it is the
direct expenditure only.
4

5

As of June 2015, PSC balances have been consolidated under one single PSC account for all Volume 1 entities under the Central Control of the UN Controller.

ODSG AND OTHER DONOR CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)

OCHA Donor contributions1

2012

2013

2014

20153

2016

230,585,374

233,232,884

237,543,069

242,077,798

262,601,173

Contributions from ODSG

227,364,333

227,165,977

221,811,542

219,340,181

250,218,315

OCHA Extrabudgetary Programme

254,617,435

277,345,887

307,867,072

333,918,844

294,913,926

OCHA donors2

40

40

40

44

43

OCHA ODSG members

25

25

27

27

27

1

Total includes paid and pledged contributions.

2

Number include donors such as (Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office, private donors, ECHO and UN agencies.

3

Starting 2015 income data also includes future pledges (except multi-year pledges), hence, 2015 donor income might have changed compared to what was published previously.

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

82

FUNDING AND FINANCE

Conclusion

In 2016, OCHA made important advancements to align its budget and income, putting
OCHA firmly on the path towards sustainable
financial stability in the near term. However,
more needs to be done to align budget and
income. The high level of implementation
in 2016 indicates that OCHA has reached
full capacity. Going forward, budget reductions will come from a revised structure and
vision, as the organization implements reforms stemming from the Functional Review,
including decisions on what activities it can
and cannot undertake within the available
resources. In September 2016, OCHA’s Executive Management Committee agreed to
a 2017 budget of $260 million, lower than
the $295 million budget of 2016, based on
realistic income projections and analysis of
available cash reserves.
On the income side, OCHA’s donors have
shown confidence in its reform process and
financial management by increasing overall
income to a record level. OCHA recognizes
that it will need to continue to demonstrate
its added value to ensure effective humanitarian action as well as efficient management
of its resources for donors to consider OCHA
a worthy investment.

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

ANNEXES
84	

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

85	

OCHA ORGANIZATIONAL CHART

86	

FINANCIAL TABLES AND CHARTS

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

84

ANNEXES

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ASEAN

Association of Southeast Asian Nations

IDP

Internally Displaced Person

ASG

Assistant Secretary-General

IFRC

International Federation of the Red Cross

CAR

Central African Republic

IHL

International Humanitarian Law

CBI

Connecting Business initiative

IM

Information Management

CBPF

Country-Based Pooled Funds

IMPACT

Information Management Preparedness and Coordination Training

CERF

Central Emergency Response Fund

INFORM

Index for Risk Management

CESDRR

Center for Emergency Situations and Disaster Risk Reduction

INGO

International Non-Governmental Organization

CMCOORD Civil-Military Coordination

INSARAG

International Search and Rescue Advisory Group

DHC

Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator

ISIL

Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant

DPC

Department of Civil Protection

JIAG

Joint Intersectoral Analysis Group

DRC

Democratic Republic of the Congo

L3

Level 3

ECHO

European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Operations

MSA

Multisectoral Assessment

ECOSOC

Economic and Social Council

NDRMC

National Disaster Risk Management Commission

EDG

Emergency Directors Group

NGO

Non-Governmental Organization

ERC

Emergency Relief Coordinator

NSAG

Non-State Armed Group

ERP

Emergency Response Preparedness

OCHA

United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs

EU

European Union

ODSG

OCHA Donor Support Group

FTS

Financial Tracking Service

PACT

Platform for Action, Commitments and Transformations

GA

General Assembly

PROCAP

Protection Standby Capacity

GAHI

Global Alliance on Humanitarian Innovation

RC

Resident Coordinator

GBV

Gender-based violence

ROAP

Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific

GCCG

Global Cluster Coordinators Group

ROCCA

Regional Office for Central Asia and the Caucasus

GHO

Global Humanitarian Overview

ROLAC

Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean

GHPF

Global Humanitarian Policy Forum

ROMENA

Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa

GPC

General People's Congress

ROSEA

Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa

HAS

Humanitarian Affairs Segment

ROWCA

Regional Office for West and Central Africa

HAT

Humanitarian Advisory Team

RRM

Rapid Response Mechanism

HC

Humanitarian Coordinator

SLC

Saudi Arabian-Led Coalition

HCT

Humanitarian Country Team

SMT

Senior Management Team

HNO

Humanitarian Needs Overview

SOP

Standard Operating Procedure

HOC

Humanitarian Operations Centre

STAIT

Senior Transformative Implementation Team

HPC

Humanitarian Programme Cycle

UNDAC

United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination

HRD

Humanitarian Requirements Document

UNDP

United Nations Development Programme

HRP

Humanitarian Response Plan

UNEP

United Nations Environment Programme

HSP

Humanitarian Strategic Plan

UNFPA

United Nations Population Fund

IAHE

Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluation

UNICEF

United Nations Children's Fund

IASC

Inter-Agency Standing Committee

UNMISS

United Nations Mission in the Republic of South Sudan

IATI

International Aid Transparency Initiative

USG

Under-Secretary-General

ICRC

International Committee of the Red Cross

WFP

World Food Programme

ICT

Information and Communications Techology

WHS

World Humanitarian Summit

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

ANNEXES

85

OCHA ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
AS OF DECEMBER 2016
UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL AND
EMERGENCY RELIEF COORDINATOR
ASSISTANT SECRETARY-GENERAL FOR
HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS AND DEPUTY
EMERGENCY RELIEF COORDINATOR

Strategic Planning,
Evaluation and
Guidance Section
IASC / ECHA Secretariat
Senior Gender Adviser

COORDINATION AND
RESPONSE DIVISION

CORPORATE
PROGRAMMES DIVISION

GENEVA
OFFICE

ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICES BRANCH

EMERGENCY
SERVICES BRANCH

Finance Section

Civil-Military Coordination Section

Human Resources Section

Emergency Preparedness
and Environment Section

UMOJA/Corporate Support Unit

Field Coordination
Support Section

Operations Support Unit

Surge Capacity Section

STRATEGIC
COMMUNICATIONS
BRANCH
Media Relations Section
Public Advocacy and
Campaigns Section
Reporting and Visual
Information Section

INFORMATION
SERVICES BRANCH
Corporate Information
Services Section
Global Information
Services Section
Field Information
Services Section
Data Services Section

POLICY DEVELOPMENT
AND STUDIES BRANCH
Inter-Governmental
Policy Section
Policy Advice and
Planning Section
Policy Analysis and
Innovation Section

CERF SECRETARIAT

Activation and
Coordination Support Unit

AFRICA I
Regional Ofﬁce for Southern
and Eastern Africa
Burundi
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan

AFRICA II
Regional Ofﬁce for West
and Central Africa
Central African Republic
Chad
Côte d’Ivoire
Democratic Republic
of the Congo
Mali
Niger
Nigeria

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

Programme Section

Regional Ofﬁce for Asia
and the Paciﬁc

Resource Mobilization and
Communications Section

Ofﬁce for the Paciﬁc Islands

Performance, Monitoring
and Policy Section

Philippines

Finance and
Administration Section

FUNDING COORDINATION
SECTION
WORLD HUMANITARIAN
SUMMIT SECRETARIAT

Myanmar

CENTRAL ASIA, PAKISTAN,
AFGHANISTAN, LATIN
AMERICA AND THE
CARIBBEAN
Regional Ofﬁce for the
Caucasus and Central Asia

PARTNERSHIPS
AND RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION BRANCH
Donor Relations Section
Partnerships Coordination Section
Private Sector Section

Regional Ofﬁce for Latin
America and the Caribbean

External Relations and
Partnerships Section

Afghanistan

Resource Mobilization
Support Section

Colombia
Haiti
Pakistan
Ukraine

MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA

LIAISON OFFICES

African Union Liaison Ofﬁce
Gulf Liaison Ofﬁce
Brussels Liaison Ofﬁce

PROGRAMME
SUPPORT BRANCH

Regional Ofﬁce for the Middle East
and North Africa

Planning and Monitoring Section

Regional Humanitarian Coordinator’s
Ofﬁce for the Syria Crisis

Coordinated Assessment
Support Section

Iraq

Inter-Cluster Coordination Section

Jordan (Syria Crisis)

HPC Information Services Unit

Lebanon (Syria Crisis)
occupied Palestinian territory
Syria
Turkey (Syria Crisis)
Yemen

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

86

ANNEXES

FINANCIAL TABLES AND CHARTS
OCHA BUDGET AND
EXPENDITURE IN 2016 (US$)

Extrabudgetary Administrative Budget

Programme Budget
Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

18,171,600

18,098,055

16,544,303

91%

-

-

-

-

6,807,148
31,063,537
16,887,170
31,531,540
86,289,395

7,367,043
28,734,008
15,520,605
32,559,920
84,181,576

6,487,548
27,195,290
14,835,294
31,470,158
79,988,290

88%
95%
96%
97%
95%

0
29,570,945
29,570,945

675,579
31,133,836
31,809,415

365,137
28,969,031
29,334,168

54%
93%
92%

Regional Offices

32,022,690

30,270,608

25,053,165

83%

-

-

-

-

Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for West and Central Africa
Regional Office for the Caucasus and Central Asia
Liaison Offices
AU Liaison Office
Gulf Liaison Office
Brussels Liaison Office
Africa

4,142,202
6,578,010
3,301,100
7,825,927
8,648,213
1,527,238
4,279,156
1,522,493
1,954,021
802,642
87,762,508

4,353,905
6,331,367
2,424,770
7,682,807
8,068,598
1,409,161
3,341,326
1,291,689
1,476,868
572,769
86,807,369

3,680,509
4,897,131
2,163,098
6,033,981
7,161,288
1,117,158
3,258,669
1,269,422
1,433,951
555,296
80,597,097

85%
77%
89%
79%
89%
79%
98%
98%
97%
97%
93%

-

-

-

-

865,020
4,683,417
10,106,123
12,557,594
10,081,090
0
9,503,902
5,634,418
1,504,826
16,042,291
741,800
5,680,143
3,997,779
6,364,105
8,458,154
5,217,248
1,141,348
2,099,558
15,777,763
10,628,783
5,148,980
4,476,865
4,476,865
5,728,134
3,050,462
2,677,672
56,252,375
11,205,535
7,585,874
11,717,447
7,976,331
6,094,630
2,663,873
2,977,671
6,031,014
214,757,645
301,047,040
8,089,219
1,270,517
888,572
2,061,365
1,705,620
1,122,505
1,040,640
309,136,259

790,899
6,088,419
9,314,762
12,503,209
10,721,674
1,240,187
8,228,987
5,420,943
1,541,870
14,967,815
739,973
5,133,397
4,125,401
5,989,833
8,259,811
5,278,782
1,107,454
1,873,575
15,034,021
10,540,222
4,493,799
3,980,761
3,980,761
5,333,635
2,793,027
2,540,608
49,615,600
8,519,471
6,684,504
12,554,005
7,284,029
4,362,777
2,249,488
2,428,139
5,533,187
202,643,131
286,824,707
8,089,219
1,270,517
888,572
2,061,365
1,705,620
1,122,505
1,040,640
294,913,926

711,724
5,405,302
9,017,603
12,259,094
10,553,528
905,513
7,057,348
4,926,353
1,338,832
14,196,265
592,339
4,625,474
3,837,980
5,169,742
8,083,160
5,112,792
1,098,680
1,871,688
14,866,682
10,399,080
4,467,602
3,229,530
3,229,530
4,480,403
2,333,042
2,147,361
47,276,529
8,635,281
5,995,834
12,433,904
7,513,871
4,220,536
1,607,311
2,345,918
4,523,874
186,845,234
266,833,524
6,697,835
995,890
753,807
1,478,933
1,447,842
1,110,086
911,278
97,050
273,628,410

90%
89%
97%
98%
98%
73%
86%
91%
87%
95%
80%
90%
93%
86%
98%
97%
99%
100%
99%
99%
99%
81%
81%
84%
84%
85%
95%
101%
90%
99%
103%
97%
71%
97%
82%
92%
93%
83%
78%
85%
72%
85%
99%
88%
93%

29,570,945
29,570,945

31,809,415
31,809,415

-

-

29,334,168
-1,123,892
28,210,276

92%
89%

327,307,859

313,011,981

290,172,713

93%

29,570,945

31,809,415

28,210,276

89%

REGULAR BUDGET ACTIVITIES
EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES
HEADQUARTERS
Executive Management
Corporate Programme Division
Coordination and Response Division
Office of Director Geneva
Total Headquarters Activities
FIELDS ACTIVITIES

Eritrea
Ethiopia
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
Burundi
Central African Republic
Chad
Côte d’Ivoire
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Ebola Emergency Teams
Mali
Niger
Nigeria
Asia and the Pacific
Myanmar
Office for the Pacific Islands
Philippines
Central Asia, Pakistan and Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Pakistan
Europe
Ukraine
Latin America & the Caribbean
Colombia
Haiti
Middle East and North Africa
Iraq
occupied Palestinian territory
Yemen
Syria
Turkey (Syria Crisis)
Jordan (Syria Crisis)
Lebanon (Syria Crisis)
RHC for the Syria Crisis*
Total Field Activities
Total Extrabudgetary Activities
CBPFs management units (former-CHF)
Afghanistan
Central African Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
Dormant accounts and others
Total Extrabudgetary Activities including CBPF and Dormant
TOTAL OCHA ACTIVITIES
(REGULAR BUDGET AND EXTRABUDGETARY)
*

Regional Humanitarian Coordinator’s Office for the Syria Crisis

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

87

ANNEXES

SPECIALLY DESIGNATED
CONTRIBUTIONS BY ACTIVITY (US$)
2016 Donor Contributions
*

CBPF*

Natural
Disaster Activities

Other SDCs

ProCap and
GenCap Rosters

UNDAC
Mission Accounts

GRAND TOTAL

433,759,983

1,133,787

631,857

4,993,700

744,166

441,263,493

Further details and breakdown of this amount are provided in the table on page 92

SPECIALLY DESIGNATED CONTRIBUTIONS
BY DONOR (US$)
Donor
United Kingdom

US$
181,684,805

OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)
Entity

Description

DFID

Vehicles

Total
671,974

Germany

49,283,671

Deliotte Consulting

Consulting Services

Netherlands

46,662,723

UNHCR

Technical assistance/expert services

67,000
97,198

Sweden

32,082,435

FAO

Technical assistance/expert services

129,494

Belgium

30,149,083

WFP

Technical assistance/expert services

88,692

Norway

16,409,121

UNICEF

Technical assistance/expert services

13,725
60,000

Denmark

16,098,078

International Humnaitarian City

Office space

Ireland

14,509,739

Hyogo Prefecture

Office space

44,187

United States

13,325,000

Government of Kazakistan through UNDP

Office space

14,570

Switzerland

10,251,122

Government of Tajikistan through UNDP

Office space

Australia

6,241,016

Qatar

5,000,000

Saudi Arabia

5,000,000

Canada

4,425,289

Spain

3,385,128

France

2,315,006

Korea, Republic of

1,300,000

Italy*

1,133,787

Jersey

603,659

Iceland

300,000

Luxembourg

283,126

Russian Federation

150,000

Estonia

106,157

China

50,000

Malaysia

50,000

Austria

39,950

New Zealand

13,000

Cyprus

10,616

Colombia

10,000

UN and Other Agencies
GRAND TOTAL

GRAND TOTAL

568
1,187,408

390,982
441,263,493

Total includes paid and pledged contributions.
Excludes: Contributions channelled through OCHA to NGOs and non-UN partners via the CHF for Somalia (US$21,838,835.63), CHF Afghanistan (US$28,436,504.22) and WHS (US$3,131,000).
*
Contribution to pre-positioned fund. In 2016 a transfer of $1.1 million from the pre-positioned fund was made to the OCHA office in Syria.

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

88

ANNEXES

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS - BREAKDOWN OF DONOR EARMARKING (US$)
OCHA Activities
UNEARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS
EARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS
HEADQUARTERS
ACTIVITIES
LIAISON OFFICES
REGIONAL OFFICES

Office
Unearmarked

Headquarter Activities
Liaison Offices
Regional Office for Asia
and the Pacific
Regional Office for Latin
America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Southern
and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for West
and Central Africa
Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for the
Caucasus and Central Asia

Regional Offices Total
AFRICA

Central African Republic
Chad
Côte d'Ivoire

Germany

Norway

Switzerland

Japan

Belgium

3,700,000

31,555,282

14,953,942

-

2,296,095

8,412,450

2,173,913

658,075

2,437,703

17,670,000

190,840

238,578

-

2,685,022

-

1,778,734

100,000

-

700,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

800,000

-

715,734

-

-

-

-

320,000

-

600,000

-

117,786

170,068

-

-

-

-

-

1,600,000

845,254

238,578

-

558,659

-

-

-

-

1,150,000

-

954,312

1,026,761

-

118,008

822,199

-

-

500,000

-

477,156

327,869

-

-

513,875

-

-

500,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,150,000

845,254

2,503,566

1,524,697

558,659

118,008

1,336,074

320,000

627,090

1,000,000

-

1,049,509

1,457,368

-

-

-

-

-

500,000

152,672

1,249,442

850,340

530,786

287,009

-

-

418,060

-

1,103,266

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,802,977

822,368

-

-

411,100

-

627,090

500,000

-

238,578

328,947

-

-

-

-

167,224

-

-

551,633

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,800,000

3,614,631

238,578

1,133,787

558,659

584,112

-

-

-

500,000

-

459,231

453,515

558,659

118,008

-

-

-

-

-

1,249,442

169,109

530,786

238,723

-

-

668,896

Nigeria

2,000,000

152,672

1,452,170

563,698

-

311,151

-

-

-

Somalia

1,500,000

783,699

578,520

891,862

1,117,318

-

-

-

-

South Sudan

2,500,000

-

817,098

836,120

-

584,112

411,100

1,000,000

836,120

Sudan*

1,500,000

-

459,231

3,030,172

-

584,112

805,577

-

-

12,800,000

4,703,673

12,249,676

10,537,286

3,296,208

2,707,227

1,627,776

1,000,000

2,717,391

Ethiopia
Mali
Niger

Africa Total
Myanmar

400,000

152,672

459,231

566,251

-

-

604,183

-

-

Office for the
Pacific Islands

700,000

-

238,578

-

-

-

-

-

-

Philippines

250,000

-

569,558

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,350,000

152,672

1,267,367

566,251

-

-

604,183

-

-

Asia and the Pacific Total
Colombia
Haiti
Latin America and the
Caribbean Total
Ukraine

-

-

459,231

339,751

-

-

308,325

-

-

550,000

-

781,248

-

-

-

-

-

-

550,000

-

1,240,480

339,751

-

-

308,325

-

-

400,000

-

238,578

340,136

1,675,978

118,008

308,325

500,000

-

Europe total

400,000

-

238,578

340,136

1,675,978

118,008

308,325

500,000

-

MIDDLE EAST, NORTHERN
Afghanistan
& CENTRAL ASIA

500,000

152,672

790,211

1,541,491

558,659

236,016

-

-

-

Iraq

2,000,000

-

357,867

1,360,544

1,944,276

467,290

-

1,000,000

836,120

oPt

-

-

339,942

1,132,503

558,659

467,290

513,875

-

836,120

1

Pakistan

300,000

878,477

238,578

1,109,878

-

-

-

-

-

Syria **

3,000,000

2,857,143

1,854,850

1,675,978

1,117,318

2,349,490

912,508

5,000,000

-

Yemen

1,200,000

1,037,613

357,867

1,132,503

558,659

-

-

100,000

836,120

7,000,000

4,925,905

3,939,315

7,952,897

4,737,573

3,520,086

1,426,382

6,100,000

2,508,361

Middle East, Northern &
Central Asia Total
CBPFs MANAGEMENT
UNITS (FORMER-CHF)***
GRAND TOTAL

1

European
Commission

-

Eritrea

EUROPE

Sweden

-

Burundi

LATIN AMERICA AND
THE CARIBBEAN

United
Kingdom

1,000,000

Democratic Republic
of the Congo

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

United States

occupied Palestinian territory

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

49,320,000

42,373,626

36,631,502

21,261,019

15,249,535

14,875,779

9,563,712

8,678,075

8,290,546

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

ANNEXES

89

Other
Donors

GRAND
TOTAL

Spain

Korea,
Republic of

France

Russian
Federation

3,462,604

1,109,878

1,000,000

1,132,503

500,000

-

-

-

-

-

350,000

313,390

23,552,498

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

700,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,000

2,738,986

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

975,244

-

111,483

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,353,974

-

-

111,483

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,056,736

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

27,594

1,846,493

Australia

Canada

Netherlands

Ireland

Denmark

Finland New Zealand

6,360,691

1,431,639

5,668,934

4,957,609

4,460,303

3,791,983

-

-

225,934

-

-

-

-

-

-

824,345

74,906

-

-

87,391

-

-

-

1,697,727 101,761,333

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

100,000

600,000

824,345

193,508

-

111,483

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

135,594

14,248,279

-

224,719

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,731,596

-

31,211

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,019,519

-

31,211

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,134,477

-

374,532

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

6,038,067

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

551,633

-

-

-

191,083

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

8,120,850

-

31,211

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,120,624

-

31,211

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,888,167

-

181,024

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,660,715

-

299,625

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,171,025

-

374,532

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,000

7,363,083

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

6,379,092

-

1,579,276

-

191,083

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,000

53,413,597

-

74,906

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,257,244

152,323

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,090,901

-

74,906

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

894,464

152,323

149,813

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,242,609

-

87,391

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,194,698

-

87,391

-

-

-

-

-

277,469

-

-

-

232,362

1,928,470

-

174,782

-

-

-

-

-

277,469

-

-

-

232,362

3,123,168

-

187,266

-

-

-

-

-

-

250,000

-

-

87,799

4,106,089

-

187,266

-

-

-

-

-

-

250,000

-

-

87,799

4,106,089

-

374,532

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,153,581

-

373,692

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

718,356

9,058,146

-

383,436

-

212,314

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,000

4,448,139

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,526,933

-

1,121,076

-

-

-

-

-

-

100,000

-

-

868,851

20,857,214

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,222,763

-

2,252,736

-

212,314

-

-

-

-

100,000

-

-

1,591,207

46,266,776

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

11,186,824

11,186,824

7,337,360

5,969,019

5,894,868

5,472,489

4,460,303

3,791,983

3,462,604

1,387,347

1,350,000

1,132,503

850,000

15,248,902

262,601,173

Totals include paid and pledged contributions. | * Total includes funding to OCHA office in Sudan (EUR2M) which is meant for 2017 | ** Total for Syria includes funding to the following offices Syria,
Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, as well as funding to the Syria RHC | ***Cost of CBPF management units covered directly from the fund; amount under “other donors” refers to transfers from UNDP MPTF.

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

90

ANNEXES

Unite
d Sta
tes
$49.3
M

DONORS
RECIPIENTS
ea
Un
ed
ark
rm
$1
01

4M

.8M

2.

gd

in

dK

te
ni

$4

om

U

M

36.6
en $
Swed

Africa $53.4M

European Commission $21.3M

Germ

any

Nor

M

itz
erl

an

Ja

pa

n

iu
lg

Be

3.6
$2
s
ter

.2M

qu
ar

$4.2M
the Caribbean
$3.1M
Liaison Ofﬁces $0.7M

$4.1M

Latin America
and

the Paciﬁc
Asia and

nits
agem
ent U
Man
CBPF

Europe

$11.2

M

s $
14
fﬁc
e
al O
ion
Reg

M

.3

Interactive version
www.unocha.org/story/ocha-2016-annual-report-year-challenges-and-unprecedented-needs

$8

M

m

Other Donors $15.2M

.3M
$7
a
ali
str
Au
.0M
$6
da
9M
na
$5.
Ca
nds
rla
the
Ne
5M
$5.
and
Irel
4.5M
k $
mar
Den
3.8M
nd $
.5M
Finla
d $3
ealan
New Z
$1.4M
1.3M
Spain c of Korea $
Republi
$1.1M
M
France Federation $0.9
Russian

ad

d
Mid

way

$14

Sw

He

st

Ea
le-

/Ce

ern

rth

o
&N

al
ntr

a
Asi

.3
$46

$8

.7M

d

$9

.6M

.9M

$15.2

M

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

S
ali
om
a
$5

DRC: Democratic Republic of the Congo

CBPF: Country Based Pooled Funds

2M
ors $15.
Other Don

oPt: occupied Palestinian Territory
Un

ite
d

Ki
ng

do
m

$4

2.

4M

Unite
d Sta
tes $
49.3M

RECIPIENTS

.2M

M
.2

M
.3
$7
lia
ra
st
.0M
$6
Au
.9M
da
$5
na
s
Ca
nd
rla
the
M
Ne
5.5
d$
lan
5M
Ire
$4.
rk
ma
8M
Den
$3.
M
and
$3.5
Finl
land
Zea
M
New $1.4M rea $1.3
Ko
Spain blic of M
$0.8M
Repnuce $1.1deration
Frassian Fe
Ru

M

$5

M
an
$4
.2M
e $
tral
4.1
Cha
M
Afr
ican
d $
Reg
4.0
iona
Rep
M
l Ofﬁ
ubl
ic $
ce fo
3.7
r As
M
Nig
ia an
er $
d th
2.9M
e Pa
ciﬁc
$2.7
Pakis
M
tan $
2.5M
Myan
mar
$2.3M
Mali $
R.O. for
2.1
the Middl
Haiti $ M
e East an
1.9
d North
Africa $1 M
R.O. for Ea
stern and
.8M
Southern Af
rica $3.4M
Burundi $1.2M
Colombia $1.2M
Côte d'Ivoire $1.1M
Ofﬁce for the Paciﬁc Islands $1.1M
R.O. for Latin America and the Caribbean $1.0M
Philippines $0.9M
Liaison Ofﬁces $0.7M
Central Asia $0.6M
R.O. for the Caucasus and
Eritrea $0.6M

Cen

Ye
n
me

.7

o

ist

li
ng

rai
n

ub
Co

Uk

ep
the

t$
4.4

cR
f
co
$6

M

S
n
uda

an

De
mo
ti
cra

u

oP

th S

$4

Sou
$
dan

$4
.7

pia

a

Ethio

Af
ric

Iraq

ria

its
agement Un

ra
l

CBPF Man

ters

Ni
ge

nt

Ce

Head
quar

Af
gh

nd

ta

W
es

.8M
01
$1

or

ed
ark

rm
ea

ef

Un

Of
ﬁc

ANNEXES

$8.1
M

M
7.4

$6.
4M

.0M
Ja
pa

Be
lgi
um
n

91

DONORS

$23.6
den

M
Swe

Syria $20.9M

Nor

itze
rla

way

nd

$36
.6M

European Commission $21.3M

$11.2M

$9.1M
y $14.
7M

German

$14
.9M

Sw
$9.

$8
6M

.7M

$8
.3M

R.O. : Regional Office

Interactive version
www.unocha.org/story/ocha-2016-annual-report-year-challenges-and-unprecedented-needs

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

92

ANNEXES

CBPFS (HUMANITARIAN FUNDS): CONTRIBUTIONS BY DONOR AND FUND (US$)

Donor

Colombia

Ethiopia

Iraq

Myanmar

Australia

-

Belgium

-

oPt*

Pakistan

3,022,492

1,504,891

-

3,344,482

Syria

Yemen

TOTAL

1,142,422

-

-

-

-

5,669,805

-

2,765,487

-

24,039,115

-

30,149,083

Canada

-

-

373,692

-

-

-

-

3,745,318

4,119,010

Cyprus

-

-

10,616

-

-

-

-

-

10,616

Denmark

-

1,486,768

3,567,352

1,426,941

-

-

6,763,137

2,853,881

16,098,078

France

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,265,006

-

2,265,006

Germany

-

2,265,006

16,010,345

-

1,675,978

-

14,231,239

15,049,515

49,232,083

Iceland

-

-

-

-

-

-

300,000

-

300,000

Ireland

-

1,932,059

2,733,812

-

212,314

-

4,830,326

4,352,797

14,061,308

Jersey

-

-

-

-

-

-

603,659

-

603,659

Korea, Republic of

-

500,000

-

-

-

-

500,000

300,000

1,300,000

Luxembourg

-

-

-

-

-

-

283,126

-

283,126

Malaysia

-

-

-

-

-

-

50,000

-

50,000

Netherlands

-

-

11,476,634

-

-

-

23,862,132

11,273,957

46,612,723

Norway

-

-

4,366,650

-

700,935

-

10,338,468

-

15,406,053

Qatar

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,000,000

-

5,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,000,000

5,000,000

554,939

-

-

-

554,939

-

1,664,817

554,939

3,329,634

3,783,944

1,178,924

2,206,531

4,413,694

9,894,949

8,033,192

30,942,704

493,097

1,929,249

-

2,517,623

3,048,049

9,942,290

4,201,510

-

3,076,923

30,380,945

53,258,283

181,684,805

-

-

-

-

11,700,000

10,045,432

7,490,617

137,524,541

107,469,932

433,759,982

Saudi Arabia
Spain
Sweden

477,156

954,312

Switzerland

310,238

1,644,035

United Kingdom

-

40,909,124

49,858,020

United States

-

6,700,000

5,000,000

1,342,333

59,413,796

102,030,438

GRAND TOTAL (US$)

8,442,894

Total includes paid and pledged contributions.
Excludes: Contributions channelled through OCHA to NGOs and non-UN partners via the CHF for Somalia (US$21,838,835.63), CHF Afghanistan (US$28,436,504.22) and WHS (US$3,131,000). It
also excludes the CBPFs in DRC, CAR, Sudan, and South Sudan.
Total for Syria HF includes funding to HF Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey.
*

occupied Palestinian territory

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

93

ANNEXES

1. UNITED STATES

OCHA contribution trend
(Million USD)

7.5% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$49,320,000
18.8% of total OCHA
donor income

Unearmarked contibutions
Earmarked contibutions

ODSG
50
45
40
35
30

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$13,325,000

2. UNITED KINGDOM
74.5% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$42,373,626
16.1% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG

3. SWEDEN

45

40.8% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$36,631,501
13.9% of total OCHA
donor income

40
35

2014

2015

ODSG

2016

40
35
30
25

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$181,684,804.62
(GPB 134,667,000)

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$32,082,435.015
(SEK 274,580,000)

4. EUROPEAN COMMISSION*

5. GERMANY

0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$21,261,018
8.1% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
25

15.1% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$15,249,535
5.8% of total OCHA
donor income

20
15

2014

2015

2016

ODSG
15
10
5

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$49,283,671
(EUR 44,565,631.61)

6. NORWAY

ODSG
56.6% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$14,875,779
5.7% of total OCHA
donor income

7. SWITZERLAND

20

22.7% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$9,563,712
3.6% of total OCHA
donor income

15
10

2014

2015

2016

ODSG
10,0
7,5
5,0

2014

2015

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$16,409,121.041
(NOK 139,500,000)

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$10,251,122.47
(CHF 10,151,000)

8. JAPAN

9. BELGIUM

ODSG
7.6% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$8,678,075
3.3% of total OCHA
donor income

10,0

5,0

2014

2015

ODSG
29.4% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$8,290,545
3.2% of total OCHA
donor income

7,5

2016

2016

10
5
0

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$30,149,083.01
(EUR 27,375,000)

10. AUSTRALIA
86.7% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$7,337,359
2.8% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG

24% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$5,969,019
2.3% of total OCHA
donor income

10
5

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$6,241,016.26
(AUD 8,466,377)

12. NETHERLANDS
96.2% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$5,894,868
2.2% of total OCHA
donor income

11. CANADA

15

90.6% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$5,472,489
2.1% of total OCHA
donor income

7,5

2015

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$46,662,723.49
(EUR 41,644,750)

2016

2014

2015

2016

ODSG
7,50
3,75
0,00

2014

2015

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$14,509,738.915
(EUR 13,420,000)

Total includes funding to OCHA ofﬁce in Sudan (EUR2M) which is meant for 2017

*

0

13. IRELAND

10,0

2014

5

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$4,425,289.15
(CAD 5,900,000)

ODSG

5,0

ODSG
10

2016

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

94

ANNEXES

14. DENMARK
100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$4,460,303
1.7% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG

15. FINLAND

7,5

100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$3,791,982
1.4% of total OCHA
donor income

5,0
2,5

2014

2015

2016

ODSG
5,0
2,5
0,0

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions:
a total of US$16,098,078.15 (DKK 110,000,000)

16. NEW ZEALAND
100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$3,462,603
1.3% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
5,0

0,0

2014

2015

2016

ODSG

1
0

2014

2015

19. FRANCE

2

2016

0

2014

2015

ODSG
100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$1,132,502
0.4% of total OCHA
donor income

1

2016

Specially designated contributions:
a total of US$1,300,000

2
1
0

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions:
a total of US$2,315,005.66 (EUR 2,045,200)

20. RUSSIAN FEDERATION

ODSG

21. LUXEMBOURG

2

100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$809,739
0.3% of total OCHA
donor income

1
0

2014

2015

2016

ODSG
1,0
0,5
0,0

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions:
a total of US$283,125.71 (EUR 250,000)

Specially designated contributions:
a total of US$150,000

22. AUSTRIA
15.1% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$653,623
0.24% of total OCHA
donor income

2

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$3,385,127.65
(EUR 3,050,000)

18. REPUBLIC OF KOREA

58.8% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$850,000
0.3% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
80% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$1,387,347
0.5% of total OCHA
donor income

2,5

Specially designated contributions:
a total of US$13,000 (NZD 17,927)

74.1% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$1,350,000
0.5% of total OCHA
donor income

17. SPAIN

ODSG
1,0
0,5
0,0

2014

2015

2016

ODSG

23. POLAND
0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$558,645
0.21% of total OCHA
donor income

1,0
0,5
0,0

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions:
a total of US$39,950.17 (EUR 35,276)

24. TURKEY

ODSG
100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$500,000
0.19% of total OCHA
donor income

1,0
0,5
0,0

2014

2015

2016

25. ESTONIA
0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$319,036
0.12% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
1,0
0,5
0,0

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$106,157.11
(EUR 100,000)

26. MALTA

27. KAZAKHSTAN
0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$193,038
0.07% of total OCHA
donor income

0,2
0,1
0,0

2014

2015

2016

33.3% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$150,000
0.05% of total OCHA
donor income

0,2
0,1
0,0

2014

2015

2016

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

ANNEXES

28. GEORGIA1
0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$100,000
0.03% of total OCHA
donor income

95

29. ICELAND1
0,10

100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$100,000
0.03% of total OCHA
donor income

0,05
0,00

2014

2015

2016

0,2
0,1
0,0

2014

2015

2016

2014

2015

2016

2014

2015

2016

2014

2015

2016

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$300,000

30. THAILAND1
0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$100,000
0.03% of total OCHA
donor income

31. ROMANIA
1

0

2014

2015

2016

0,050
0,025
0,000

2014

2015

2016

34. CZECH REPUBLIC
100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$39,246
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

0,10
0,05
0,00

33. SINGAPORE

32. BULGARIA
0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$53,078
0.02% of total OCHA
donor income

0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$55,187
0.02% of total OCHA
donor income

0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$50,000
0.02% of total OCHA
donor income

0,050

100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$30,000
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

0,04

0,025
0,000

35. CHINA
0,10
0,05
0,00

2014

2015

2016

0,02
0,00

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$50,000

36. MONACO
100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$27,932
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

37. UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
0,04

80% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$25,000
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

0,02
0,00

2014

2015

2016

38. HUNGARY

2,50
1,25
0,00

2014

2015

2016

2014

2015

2016

39. PHILIPPINES

100% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$22,123
0.008% of total OCHA
donor income

0,030

0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$5,000
0.002% of total OCHA
donor income

3,0

0,015
0,000

2014

2015

2016

2014

2015

2016

40. KUWAIT

1,5
0,0

Georgia, Iceland and Thailand contributed $100,000 each and are listed alphabetically

1

ODSG

0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$20,000
0.008% of total OCHA
donor income

0,02
0,01
0,00

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

WEB PLATFORMS
unocha.org
reliefweb.int

SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORMS
@unocha | @UNReliefChief
facebook.com/UNOCHA
linkedin.com/company/united-nations-ocha

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

