OCHA

UNITED NATIONS OFFICE
FOR THE COORDINATION OF
HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS

ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

OCHA THANKS OUR DONORS FOR THEIR GENEROUS
SUPPORT TO OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2017

ANDORRA

ARGENTINA

AUSTRALIA

AUSTRIA

AZERBAIJAN

BELGIUM

BULGARIA

CANADA

CHINA

DENMARK

ESTONIA

EUROPEAN COMMISSION

FINLAND

FRANCE

GERMANY

GREECE

ICELAND

IRELAND

JAPAN

KAZAKHSTAN

KUWAIT

LUXEMBOURG

MALAYSIA

MALTA

MONACO

NETHERLANDS

NEW ZEALAND

NORWAY

PERU

POLAND

QATAR

REPUBLIC OF KOREA

RUSSIAN FEDERATION

SAUDI ARABIA

SINGAPORE

SLOVAKIA

SPAIN

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND

THAILAND

TURKEY

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

UNITED KINGDOM

UNITED STATES

CREDITS
This document is produced by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). OCHA wishes to
acknowledge the contributions of its committed staff at headquarters and in the field in preparing this document.
Front and Back Cover
After waiting for more than 10 days at the Myanmar border, Rohingya refugees crossed the Naf River into Bangladesh in
November 2017 using rafts made out of bamboo and plastic jerrycans. Credit: OCHA/David Dare Parker.
Editing and Graphic Design
OCHA New York
For additional information, please contact:
Donor Relations Section
ocha.donor.relations@un.org
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
Palais des Nations, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland
Tel: +41 22 917 1690
The designations employed and the presentation of material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion
whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or
area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

CONTENTS

8	FOREWORD
10	

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

11	

LEVEL 3 AND CORPORATE EMERGENCIES

19	

FIELD OFFICES

35	

HUMANITARIAN FINANCING

38	

LOOKING FORWARD

44	

FUNDING AND FINANCE

49	

ANNEXES	

50	

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

51	

FINANCIAL TABLES AND CHARTS

FINANCIAL TABLES AND CHARTS

OCHA IN ACTION
12	

Quick Deploy Kits prove useful during the Mosul crisis

14	

Donor coordination platforms

16	

Partnership with the African Union

17	

World Humanitarian Day

18	
Advocacy to respond to and prevent famine in four 		
	countries
19	

Improving coordination

19	

Making the case for cash

21	

Strengthening data sharing and joint analysis

23	
	

Risk analysis in the Sahel region using the Index for Risk
Management

26	

New private sector networks launched in the Pacific

27	

Developing capacity in information management

29	

Recording progress on agendaforhumanity.org

30	

Multi-year Humanitarian Response Plans

30	
	

OCHA’s advocacy efforts with the EU to 			
uphold humanitarian principles

32	

Response Planning Module

33	

Partnership with Gulf Member States strengthened

34	

Improving needs assessments

39	

Actions that foresee emergencies

39	

2018 Information Management Roadmap

42	

Breaking the IDP impasse

42	

Centre for Humanitarian Data

47	

OCHA Donor Support Group

	

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

4

OCHA PRESENCE AS
OF DECEMBER 2017

STAFF
MEMBERS

COUNTRIES WITH
PRESENCE

OCHA NEW YORK
USA

Mexico

1,962

59

Guatemala

Dominican Republic10

Haiti
Honduras
Nicaragua10
Venezuela11

LATIN AMERICA AND THE
CARIBBEAN
Panamá, Panama

Colombia

Ecuador

Peru
Bolivia

Regional Ofﬁce coverage

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

AU - African Union
CAR - Central African Republic
DRC - Democratic Republic of the Congo
DPR of Korea - Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
oPt - occupied Palestinian territory
Syrian AR - Syrian Arab Republic
IR Iran - Islamic Republic of Iran
Regional Humanitarian Coordinator's Ofﬁce for the Syria Crisis, Amman, Jordan
The Regional Ofﬁce for Southern and Eastern Africa maintains a sub-regional ofﬁce presence in South Africa
Closed during 2017
Opened during 2017

The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply the expression of any
opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any
country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
Date of creation: December 2017

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

5

1

Headquarters
2 locations

Brussels

Armenia

Libya
WEST AND
CENTRAL AFRICA
Dakar, Senegal
Mauritania10

Mali

MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA
Cairo, Egypt
Niger

Chad

Burkina Faso
Côte
d'Ivoire10

Yemen

Eritrea

20

Country
Ofﬁces

Humanitarian
Adviser Teams

3

Liaison
Ofﬁces

Japan

Pakistan
ASIA AND THE
PACIFIC
Bangkok,
Thailand

Gulf

Sudan

30

DPR of
Korea4

Kyrgyzstan
Tajikistan

Turkey (Syria Crisis)
Syrian AR6 IR Iran7
Iraq Afghanistan
RHC Syria Crisis8
Jordan
(Syria Crisis) OCHA

Lebanon
(Syria Crisis)
oPt5

Regional
Ofﬁces

CAUCASUS AND
CENTRAL ASIA
Almaty, Kazakhstan

Ukraine

OCHA GENEVA
Switzerland

6

Myanmar

Philippines

AU

1

Nigeria
Cameroon

CAR2

DRC3

Ethiopia
South Sudan
Somalia

SOUTHERN AND
Burundi EASTERN AFRICA
Nairobi, Kenya

Indonesia

Ofﬁce of the
Paciﬁc Islands
Madagascar
South Africa9

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

6

YEAR IN REVIEW
FINANCIAL

ADVOCACY EFFORTS

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT

$$

OCHA BUDGET

COUNTRIES
VISITED BY
THE ERC
AND DERC

VOLUNTARY
CONTRIBUTIONS

DAYS
TRAVELLING
BY THE ERC
AND DERC

SECURITY
COUNCIL
BRIEFINGS AND
CONSULTATIONS
BY THE ERC

MAPS

INFOGRAPHICS

REPORTS

CORPORATE SURGE
MECHANISM DEPLOYMENTS

DEPLOYMENTS1

FEMALE

MALE

COUNTRIES2

9
Europe, Central
Asia and the
Caucasus

71

13
Asia and
the Paciﬁc

Latin America
and the Caribbean

44
Middle East
and North Africa
51

Latin America
and the Caribbean
Caribbean3

16

Peru

16

Mexico

29
Eastern and
Southern Africa

Western and
Central Africa

11

Dominica

Europe, Central Asia
and the Caucasus

10

Chile

8

Haiti

8

Afghanistan

Panama

1

Ukraine

Venezuela

1

Pakistan

15

DRC5

14

Sierra Leone

7

CAR6

7

4

Bangladesh

4

Myanmar
Fiji

1

Madagascar

7

Sudan

5

Zimbabwe

4

Ethiopia

4

Kenya

3
2

Tunisia

Malawi

2

Lebanon

Somalia

1

2
3

7

Yemen

South Sudan

1

10

Turkey

3

Angola

21

Jordan

Niger

Does not include staff surge from Regional Ofﬁces or from other OCHA ofﬁces
Includes the territories St. Maarten, Saint Martin, Anguilla, Saint Barthélemy, Turks and Caicos Islands
Includes Antigua and Barbuda, St. Maarten, Saint Martin, Anguilla, Saint Barthélemy, Turks and Caicos Islands, Lesser Antilles
4
Includes Islamic Republic of Iran (border earthquake)
5
Democratic Republic of the Congo
6
Central African Republic
1

Iraq

3

2

4
1

4

Mali

Burundi

8

Middle East and North Africa

Eastern and Southern Africa

Western and Central Africa
Nigeria

Asia and the Paciﬁc

3
2
1

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

7

2,815

SBPP

8,119

ASP

8,434

ERR

Complex
Emergencies
Natural
Disasters
Others

109
98
10

1,182

UNDAC

*Includes RESO
The Roaming Emergency Surge Ofﬁcer (RESO)
surge mechanism was discontinued in 2016.
23 deployments were undertaken in 4 years.

ASP

Launched in 2010

Associates Surge Pool
ASP members are experts who deploy for OCHA on
temporary appointments to ﬁll critical surge needs
and/or bridge the gap until longer-term staff arrive.
They can deploy for three to six months with the
flexibility to extend for up to 364 days.

ERR

Launched in 2008

Emergency Response Roster
OCHA's internal surge mechanism, the ERR, consists
of approximately 45 staff from a range of functional
proﬁles and duty stations. They are placed on standby
for a six-month period.

SBPP

Launched in 2000

Standby Partnership Programme
OCHA maintains agreements with 14 standby-partner
organizations that provide gratis skilled external
personnel for deployment to emergencies at short
notice.

UNDAC

Launched in 1993

United Nations Disaster
Assessment and Coordination
UNDAC teams deploy within 48 hours of a
sudden-onset emergency to support early
coordination and needs assessments.

Launched in 2013

35

DEPLOYMENTS

2017
35

11 24

FEMALE

2010
1

MALE

211

deployments in 8 years

50

DEPLOYMENTS

24 26

FEMALE

2017
50

2008
19

541

MALE

deployments in 10 years

48

DEPLOYMENTS

16 32

FEMALE

2017
48

2000
4

718

MALE

deployments in 18 years

84

DEPLOYMENTS

*

26 58

FEMALE

2017
84

1993
5

MALE

1,587

deployments in 25 years

2013
12

*
In addition, 34 UNDAC support staff were deployed from the Americas Support Team, the International Humanitarian
Partnership, MapAction and Télécoms Sans Frontières as well as experts from the European Union in 2017.

0

DEPLOYMENTS

0 0

FEMALE

MALE

2017
0

23

deployments in 5 years

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

8

Foreword
Pulka, Nigeria
Emergency Relief
Coordinator (ERC)
Mark Lowcock
speaks with
displaced women at
the Wege campsite
in Pulka, north-east
Nigeria. The ERC
visited the site in
September 2017.
Credit: OCHA/Ivo
Brandau

2017 was marked by record humanitarian
need due to protracted complex crises, the
escalation of conflict in several countries,
climate change-induced vulnerability and
a series of natural disasters. As a result,
OCHA’s humanitarian appeal reached a record US$23.5 billion to help 141 million of
the most vulnerable people around the world.
By the end of the year, we had raised $13 billion to provide life-saving aid and protection.
In early 2017, escalating food insecurity in
north-east Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan
and Yemen caused UN Secretary-General
António Guterres to launch a call to action
to help 20 million people who faced the risk
of famine. OCHA and our partners mobilized
resources and catalysed a quick response. Together with Government efforts, this action
saved millions of lives, staving off famine in
Nigeria, Somalia and Yemen, and bringing
famine under control in South Sudan.

Throughout the year, complex crises dominated the humanitarian agenda. OCHA mobilized funding and lobbied for improved
access to people caught up in protracted crises
in the Central African Republic (CAR), the
Lake Chad Basin, Syria, Yemen and beyond.
In Syria, despite access challenges in reaching
besieged and hard-to-reach areas, UN assistance reached millions of people each month.
In Yemen, the site of the world’s worst food
security crisis, OCHA mobilized resources
and advocated ceaselessly for humanitarian
access, including the lifting of a blockade by
the Saudi-led coalition towards the end of
the year.
Intensive planning went into preparing
for the humanitarian consequences of the
military campaign to retake Mosul from the
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL)
in Iraq. The military campaign displaced 1
million people, which exceeded our worstcase planning scenarios, but humanitarian
operations still kept pace with needs.

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

FOREWORD

In September, the General Assembly took
place just as the Caribbean was battered by
Hurricane Irma, followed by Hurricanes Maria, José and Nate. OCHA deployed several
UN Disaster Assessment and Coordination
teams and unleashed CERF funding.

OCHA also made strides on our commitment
to the Grand Bargain to improve the effectiveness and accountability of humanitarian
aid. Our efforts included improving the
humanitarian Financial Tracking Service;
increasing the proportion of country-based
pooled funding that went to national NGOs;
The humanitarian community’s ability to promoting increased use of cash-based
effect mass scale-up was tested when vio- programming wherever appropriate; and
lence and persecution against members of the launching the Centre for Humanitarian Data
Rohingya community in Myanmar catalysed in The Hague, which aims to drive more evthe rapid flight of 860,000 people to neigh- idence-based humanitarian action.
bouring Bangladesh. Many of the refugees
had undergone or witnessed unimaginable To underpin all of these endeavours, we adatrocities. OCHA raised awareness of the vanced the implementation of our restrucplight of the refugees and the remaining Ro- turing process to align and focus our efforts
hingya in Rakhine State, and we very quickly along OCHA’s five core functions: advocacy,
organized, together with other UN partners coordination, humanitarian financing, inforand donors, a high-level pledging event that mation management and policy development.
Alongside this, we set the building blocks to
raised $360 million.
build an organizational culture that is more
Protection of civilians in conflict was the accountable, agile, decentralized, effective,
focus of World Humanitarian Day on 19 Au- transparent and, above all, collaborative.
gust. To mark the day, OCHA and its partners These efforts will continue into 2018.
launched the global #NotATarget campaign,
which amplified messages from the Secre- All of this work was accomplished only
tary-General’s report on the protection of through the important collaboration of our
civilians in armed conflict through events partners and supporters around the world. I
around the world and social media outreach. thank you for your commitment to humanitarian action, and to OCHA.
In 2017, OCHA made progress on the commitments we made during the 2016 World
Humanitarian Summit. In particular, in line
with commitments to work differently to reduce needs, OCHA propelled a more joined-up
approach to bridge the efforts of humanitarian
and development actors in crises and at-risk
countries. For example, in Burkina Faso, CAR,
Chad and Mauritania, humanitarian and development partners shared analyses to reach a
MARK LOWCOCK
common understanding of needs, vulnerability
Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian
and risks. And in Yemen and other fragile
Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator
contexts, development banks increased their
engagement by filling response gaps and investing in early recovery. This joined-up approach was endorsed by the Secretary-General,
who initiated efforts to make the UN development system better coordinated and more
accountable in fragile contexts.

9

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

10

Making a
difference
At the beginning of 2017, more than 128 million
people needed humanitarian assistance in 33 countries. OCHA appealed for US$22.2 billion—the largest
humanitarian appeal ever launched.
OCHA stepped up to the challenge, helping to provide
for the vulnerable and protect them in the face of famine, disease, hurricanes, conflicts and other disasters.
In 2017, the humanitarian aid system dealt with four
Level 3 emergencies (DRC, Iraq, Syria and Yemen) and
four corporate emergencies (Rohingya crisis, Ethiopia,
Nigeria and Somalia). Humanitarians also responded
to the United Nations Secretary-General’s urgent call
to action to respond to and prevent famine in northeast Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan and Yemen.
An Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC) Humanitarian System-Wide Emergency Response, more
commonly referred to as an L3 emergency response,
is activated when a humanitarian situation suddenly
and significantly changes and the required capacity to
lead, coordinate and deliver humanitarian assistance
and protection is not available on the ground.
Corporate emergencies are rapid-onset or rapidly
escalating crises requiring OCHA’s highest level
of response.

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

11

Level 3 and corporate emergencies
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

(USG)/Emergency Relief Coordinator (ERC)
mission to DRC in March 2018; and hold the
first-ever high-level humanitarian conference on DRC in April 2018.
The humanitarian situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) deteriorated
drastically in 2017, with the number of people
in need of humanitarian assistance almost
doubling from 7.3 million to 13.1 million. By
early 2018, an estimated 4.5 million people
were internally displaced across DRC, half
of whom had been displaced in 2017. DRC
also hosts 540,000 refugees from neighbouring countries.

OCHA helped establish provincial-level
humanitarian coordination mechanisms to
enhance collaboration between Government
authorities and humanitarian partners. It
supported the mobilization of 57 per cent
of the $812.6 million requirement of the
2017 Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP).
OCHA also facilitated the Central Emergency
Response Fund (CERF) allocation of $26.6
million, and the DRC Humanitarian Fund
allocated $25.2 million.

In 2017, OCHA DRC had 98 staff (20 international, 78 national) working across 13
locations, including the national office (Kinshasa), sub-offices (Bukavu, Bunia, Goma,
Kalemie, Kananga, Kindu, Lubumbashi) and
OCHA coordinated the scale-up of the hu- satellite offices (Beni, Mbuji Mayi, Shabunda,
manitarian response to provide assistance Tshikapa, Uvira).
to 4.2 million people throughout the country, including about 1 million people in the
L3-designated areas. OCHA’s advocacy led to
the decisions to appoint a Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator (DHC), deployed in January
2018; organize an Under-Secretary-General
Given the rising needs, particularly in Kasai,
South Kivu and Tanganyika Provinces, the
IASC activated a Level 3 emergency response
for those areas on 20 October.

Kananga, DRC
Gédéon Mboyi
with his family in
September 2017.
Most of the families
who fled to Kananga
in Kasai Central
Province from
conflict in Kasai
Province endured
a painful journey.
They packed their
belongings, took
their children and
ran in search of
safety.
Credit: OCHA/Otto
Bakano

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

12

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

IRAQ

“the humanitarian crisis in Iraq is far from
over.” She urged donors to fund recovery
and reconstruction.

The Iraq operation remained complex and
volatile in 2017. Half of the almost 6 million
people forced to flee their homes since 2014
remained displaced. The nine-month military
offensive in Mosul (from October 2016 to
July 2017) against ISIL displaced almost 1
million people and led to OCHA’s establishment of the Humanitarian Operations Centre in Erbil to coordinate partners’ response.
OCHA’s strong performance on civil-military
coordination was acknowledged by the Secretary-General’s Executive Committee as one
of several innovative approaches adopted
during the Mosul operation.

Mosul, Iraq
During her mission
to Iraq in July 2017,
Deputy ERC Ursula
Mueller visited
the child-friendly
space supported
by OCHA and the
Iraq Humanitarian
Pooled Fund in
Mosul.
Credit: OCHA/
Vanessa May

Donors demonstrated confidence in the
OCHA-coordinated appeal: the 2017 HRP
received 92 per cent of its $985 million
requirement. The OCHA-managed Iraq
Humanitarian Fund received $77 million
and allocated $71.7 million to support 127
projects through 62 partners. OCHA also
coordinated a CERF allocation of $10 million in May to address a gap in food security
assistance in Mosul.
The Deputy ERC, Ursula Mueller, was the
first senior UN official to visit Iraq after the
liberation of Mosul. In July, she stressed that

The L3 activation for Iraq expired following
the conclusion of major military operations
at the end of 2017. OCHA coordinated a deactivation plan and identified areas requiring
continued IASC support to ensure fit-forpurpose operations beyond the L3 response.
Following the 7.5-magnitude earthquake in
north-eastern Iraq on 12 November 2017,
a six-person UNDAC team, including a
technical expert from the EU, deployed to
the region for a post-earthquake damage inspection and to support a disaster response
capacity assessment at the request of the
federal Government.
OCHA’s office, comprising 65 staff members
(32 international, 33 national), performed
core coordination functions in Baghdad,
Dohuk, Erbil, Kirkuk and Sulaymaniyah,
involving 179 partners who were active in
46 major operational areas. Humanitarians
provided assistance to approximately 1.7 million people in conflict-affected governorates,
including Anbar, Kirkuk (Hawiga district),
Ninewa (Talafar and Mosul districts) and
Salah al-Din (Shirkat district).

Quick Deploy Kits prove useful
during the Mosul crisis
In support of OCHA’s nimble and agile approach to
emergency response, OCHA’s Information Services
Branch developed a Quick Deploy Kit. The kit includes a
portable, lightweight satellite dish, laptops and a printer,
and it can be scaled to support from 3 to 30 responders. In 2017, the kit’s usefulness was validated in the
Iraq and Nigeria crises. During the preparations for the
response to the crisis in Mosul, Iraq, the OCHA office
in Erbil experienced a temporary spike in demand for
connectivity. The Quick Deploy Kit was used to quickly
provide connectivity for surge personnel in the Erbil
office. Following a fire that damaged the OCHA office in
Maiduguri, Nigeria, the kit’s satellite module was used
to quickly provide connectivity and business continuity
until the damaged equipment was replaced.

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

13

SYRIA

Massive humanitarian needs persisted in Syria
throughout 2017. The operating environment
remained exceptionally complex and challenging, demanding a robust OCHA presence
within Syria and in neighbouring countries.
OCHA was instrumental in supporting humanitarian aid operations, which reached an
average of 7.8 million people in need each
month through a combination of modalities.

From Amman, OCHA supported the Regional Humanitarian Coordinator (RHC)
for the Syria Crisis and the “Whole of Syria”
coordination architecture, ensuring, among
other things, that effective information
management and the coordination of evidence-based HNOs provided the basis for
data-driven humanitarian programme cycles
and factual response plans.

From Damascus, OCHA coordinated 55 inter-agency humanitarian convoys to hard-toreach and besieged locations in 2017; facilitated negotiations with the Syrian authorities
and others on behalf of the Humanitarian
Country Team (HCT); and ensured that
the necessary security guarantees were in
place for the conduct of safe aid deliveries.
Working closely with partners, OCHA drove
the development of the Humanitarian Needs
Overview (HNO) and the HRP, providing
an evidence base and strategic framework
for what remained an immensely complex
aid operation.

In April, the ERC, then Stephen O’Brien, cochaired with Member States and the EU the
conference titled Supporting the Future of
Syria and the Region, which mobilized $6
billion for support in 2017 and an additional
$3.7 billion for 2018-2020. These funds were
used to provide food, clean water, medical
care and shelter, and to support education
and livelihoods.

In November, ASG Mueller travelled to
Turkey near the border with Syria to meet
Syrian refugees. She said: “I want to repeat
the powerful message that I heard from brave
and courageous Syrian women who simply
From Gaziantep in Turkey, OCHA co- want to get on with their lives in peace: Tell
ordinated UN cross-border humanitarian the world to end the violence.”
deliveries into northern Syria and worked
closely with partners involved in cross-bor- OCHA-managed pooled funds in Jordan,
der shipments of humanitarian commodities, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey remained key
building capacities around principled human- elements of the response in Syria and neighitarian action and promoting best practices. bouring countries in 2017, providing grants
totalling close to $95 million during the year,
OCHA Jordan worked closely with partners benefiting 194 projects implemented by 194
to ensure the delivery of humanitarian assis- organizations.
tance to tens of thousands of people stranded at Rukban Camp along the Syria-Jordan OCHA’s Syria regional presence in 2017
border; facilitated the deployment of 1,404 included 77 staff in Syria (17 international,
humanitarian trucks from Jordan into Syria 60 national), 44 in Turkey (15 international,
via the Al-Ramtha crossing point; and was 29 national), 31 in the Syria RHC office (13
instrumental in the expanded engagement international, 18 national) and 17 in Jordan
by disaster risk reduction partners dur- (6 international and 11 national).
ing the year.

Duma, Syria
A tea-stall owner
shows resilience
in Duma in East
Ghouta, Syria. The
photo was taken in
August 2017.
Credit: OCHA/Ghalia
Seifo

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

14

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

YEMEN

a key role in developing and rolling out community engagement surveys that outlined
community perceptions of and priorities for
the response.

Huth, Yemen
Children watch a
tornado whip up
sand as it travels
across the desert
landscape near
the town of Huth,
situated about
80 km north of
Sana’a, Yemen. The
photograph was
taken in April 2017.
Credit: OCHA/ Giles
Clarke

With more than 17 million people—two of
every three people—not knowing where
their next meal will come from, Yemen is the
world’s worst humanitarian crisis. In 2017,
OCHA Yemen scaled up its operations to
support expanding relief efforts across the
country. Working with about 190 humanitarian partners, OCHA coordinated assistance
to more than 7 million people—an increase
from about 5.6 million people in 2016. This
expansion was based on a rigorous analysis of
people’s needs and detailed response planning.
Based on these plans, OCHA worked with
partners to produce detailed progress reports
that ensured response operations remained
on track or were adjusted as needed.

The expansion of the operation came in a
context of shrinking humanitarian space due
to growing bureaucratic impediments and access restrictions. OCHA played a pivotal role
in supporting partners to catalogue, analyse
and overcome these challenges through the
Humanitarian Access Working Group.
The United Nations held a High-Level
Pledging Event for Yemen in April. At the
conference, co-hosted by the Governments
of Sweden and Switzerland, donors pledged
$1.1 billion to help people in urgent need.
In October, ERC Mark Lowcock visited
Yemen to put the spotlight on the crisis and
the need for unhindered and safe humanitarian access.
Through its field offices, OCHA supported
efforts to negotiate access and liaise with parties to the conflict. OCHA also continued to
manage the Deconfliction Liaison Team to
ensure that humanitarian movements by air,
sea and land were known to the Saudi-led
coalition, thereby ensuring the safety of humanitarian staff.
In parallel, OCHA managed humanitarian
financing instruments to direct funding towards the most urgent priorities. The Yemen
Humanitarian Fund allocated $126 million

OCHA played a leading role in integrating
gender and protection concerns across the
response, and in strengthening engagement
with affected communities. This included
working closely with clusters to incorporate
protection and gender into all clusters’ needs
analyses and response plans, as well as playing

Donor coordination
platforms
OCHA’s Partnerships and Resource Mobilization Branch
continued to support important donor and coordination
platforms, such as the Syria Top Donors Group, the
Yemen Coordination Group and the Drought Core Group.
These entities provided a solid platform for partners
and donors to rally around a particular cause and stay
proactively engaged. The Secretary-General’s Humanitarian Envoy received strong advisory and technical
support throughout the year.

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

BANGLADESH

to HCT-endorsed humanitarian activities,
making it the world’s largest country-based
pooled fund. In addition, CERF provided
$25.6 million to prevent famine, promote
greater access to medical care and support
humanitarian logistics.
With 79 staff (31 international, 48 national), OCHA supported the Yemen response
through offices in Yemen and the region.
OCHA maintained a robust field presence
with a head office in Sana’a and sub-offices in
Aden, Hudaydah, Ibb and Sa’ada. A support
office in Amman, Jordan, provided information management, communications and
donor liaison services. In Riyadh, OCHA
continued to support the Deconfliction
Liaison Team.
Cox’s Bazar,
Bangladesh
A young girl
receives her oral
vaccine at a cholera
vaccination point
in the Kutupalong
makeshift
settlement for
refugees from
Myanmar.
Credit: OCHA/
Anthony Burke

The humanitarian crisis caused by escalating
violence in Myanmar’s Rakhine State triggered the world’s fastest-growing refugee
crisis, with over 1 million people in need
in Bangladesh. The 655,000 people—mostly
women and children—who arrived in Bangladesh between 25 August and the end of
2017 were destitute, traumatized and in need
of medical treatment for injury and disease.
They joined the 300,000 people who had already fled to Bangladesh in earlier waves of
displacement and the 92,000 people in need
in the host community.
OCHA deployed 27 staff/experts over various periods for seven months to support the
coordination of the humanitarian response.
OCHA facilitated the allocation of $24 million from CERF funds to support life-saving
humanitarian response, and it supported the
formulation of a HRP, calling for $434 million to fund humanitarian response between
September 2017 and February 2018.
ERC Mark Lowcock and UNICEF Executive
Director Anthony Lake visited Cox’s Bazar in
early October on a joint mission to see firsthand the devastating humanitarian situation
of the Rohingya refugees.
To raise more international awareness of
the scope of the humanitarian needs of the
Rohingya population and the humanitarian
community’s response to the crisis, OCHA
showcased aid partners’ actions with a series of videos that have been viewed more
than a million times on various social media platforms.

15

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

16

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

ETHIOPIA

drought response and another $10 million in
August 2017 for blanket supplementary feeding to reach 300,000 children and lactating
women in the Somali region.
The humanitarian situation in Ethiopia deteriorated, driven by a second consecutive year
of poor/failed rains. The number of people
in need increased from 5.6 million in January
to 8.5 million in October. An additional 4.1
million beneficiaries of the Productive Safety
Net Programme (PSNP) also required relief
food assistance for the second half of 2017
(when PSNP transfers concluded).

The OCHA office employs 67 staff (14 international, 53 national) and is located in Addis Ababa, with sub-offices in Amhara and
Tigray regions; Dire Dawa; Gambella, Afar;
Jijiga and Gode in Somali; and the Southern
Nations, Nationalities and Peoples’ Region.

In line with the New Way of Working,
OCHA partnered with the Government and
supported the development of an Integrated
National Food/Cash Plan (for both relief and
PSNP beneficiaries in the second half of 2017).
The Ethiopia Humanitarian Fund allocated
over $94.2 million, supporting 124 projects,
with Somali region receiving the most funding ($42.8 million) followed by Oromia ($21.6
million). Ethiopia was the fourth-largest
CERF recipient globally, receiving $28.5
million, including $18.5 million for the new

Partnership with the
African Union
Support from OCHA’s African Union Liaison Office
(AULO) to the AU on the operationalization of the Disaster Prevention and Response Initiative, the initiation of
the feasibility study for an African Union Humanitarian
Agency, and building capacity on civil-military coordination strengthened the strategic partnership with the AU.
AULO continued to collaborate with the African Union
Commission to implement the new cluster configuration within the framework of the UN-AU Partnership on
Africa’s Integration and Development Agenda, wherein
OCHA co-chairs the Humanitarian Matters and Disaster
Risk Management Cluster with the Department of Political Affairs of the African Union Commission.

Bama, Nigeria
People near a
water point in the
Government Senior
Science Secondary
School IDP camp, in
Bama, Borno State.
Credit: OCHA/
Yasmina Guerda

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

17

NIGERIA

and raised $48 million in contributions and
pledges, $24 million of which was allocated
to various organizations in support of the
humanitarian response in north-east Nigeria. OCHA facilitated an additional $31
million in CERF funds. By the end of 2017,
through joint and sustained coordinated
humanitarian response, over 70 per cent of
the HRP—the fourth largest single-country
appeal—was funded.

The conflict between Boko Haram and the
Nigerian military in north-east Nigeria has
affected more than 8.5 million people in the
most-affected states of Adamawa, Borno and
Yobe. The conflict has led to forced displacement, acute food and nutrition insecurity, and In 2017, OCHA had 23 international and 28
serious violations of international humani- national staff members working in its three
sub-offices in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe,
tarian and human rights law.
and in its country office in Abuja.
To improve the quality of humanitarian response in hard-to-reach areas in Borno state,
OCHA established local coordination groups
in 12 deep-field locations, and it trained
World Humanitarian Day
partners on coordination, humanitarian
principles and basic protection from sexual
For World Humanitarian Day on 19 August, OCHA and
exploitation and abuse (PSEA) principles.
OCHA supported the development of key
strategies, including the 2018 HNO/HRP.
It also facilitated the establishment of four
humanitarian hubs in hard-to-reach areas
and the massive scale-up of humanitarian assistance, averting the risk of famine
and enabling the rapid containment of a
cholera outbreak.
The OCHA-managed Nigerian Humanitarian Fund became operational in May 2017

humanitarian partners stood together with the millions
of people caught in armed conflict to reaffirm that
civilians are #NotATarget, and to show solidarity with
millions of affected people and the humanitarian and
medical workers who help them.

The campaign developed by the Strategic Communications Branch followed the Report of the Secretary-General on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict,
which lays out a ‘path to protection’ with regard to
respecting international humanitarian law, protecting
humanitarian and medical workers, and speaking out to
condemn and end impunity.
Global events were held from Amman to Abuja and
Rio to Rome, and an innovative online campaign and a
first-of-its-kind Facebook Live filter and petition were
created, all calling on leaders to uphold international
humanitarian law and do everything in their power to
protect civilians.
Supported by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau,
David Beckham, Richard Branson, and Facebook CEO
Sheryl Sandberg, the campaign was seen over 166.5
million times across digital platforms. It garnered 2.5
million social engagement actions (likes, shares, comments, clicks).
The campaign was recognized with the prestigious
D&AD Pencil Award for the creative use of social
media, and a 4As Partnership Award, which heralds
creative partnerships.

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

18

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

SOMALIA

from Mogadishu, with a support office in
Nairobi and six subnational offices.

The 2017 HRP requested $864 million. However, after the HRP was issued, the humanitarian situation in Somalia rapidly deteriorated due to drought, while the threat of a severe
famine loomed. The Operational Plan for
Famine Prevention was launched in February
and was later consolidated into the revised
HRP, which increased to $1.5 billion to scale
up famine prevention efforts. Approximately
6.7 million people, over half of the population,
required humanitarian assistance.
To avert famine and limit the impact of
displacement on people, humanitarian
actors helped to provide aid to people living in rural areas through local-level hubs.
Drought Operations Coordination Centres
were established in strategic locations in
Baidoa, Garowe and Mogadishu to enhance
inter-cluster coordination and prioritization
of needs. Cash-based assistance, reaching 3
million people per month, played a key role
in famine prevention, ensuring the delivery of aid to vulnerable people in remote
locations. Keeping in line with the Grand
Bargain commitments, OCHA engaged Government and development actors to reduce
vulnerabilities and future humanitarian needs.
In 2017, over $1.3 billion was mobilized for
famine prevention efforts, reaching up to 3
million people every month with life-saving
assistance and livelihood support. Allocations from the Somalia Humanitarian Fund
(SHF) and CERF, totalling $89 million, initially supported life-saving response in areas
hardest hit by the drought. Later in 2017,
SHF funds were used mostly by local and
national organizations to provide integrated
and coordinated response at hotspots across
the country.
In 2017, OCHA Somalia was supported by 80
staff (20 international, 60 national) managed

Advocacy to respond to
and prevent famine in
four countries
In February 2017, the Secretary-General issued an urgent call to action to respond to and prevent famine in
north-east Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan and Yemen.
OCHA took the lead, dedicating two desk officers
and the support of a technical adviser on resilience
to mobilize a coordinated effort with UN agencies,
NGOs, the World Bank and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). OCHA’s leadership on this
issue ensured common messaging, tracking of the
response and clear articulation of funding gaps across
the system. It also sustained advocacy on the risk of
starvation faced by at least 20 million people in the four
countries. OCHA ensured that timely information was
disseminated to media and donors/Member States,
including regular updates on developments in the four
countries, and it functioned as the primary gateway for
agreed information to external partners.
OCHA took the lead in facilitating monthly meetings of
the Principal-Level Steering Committee on Prevention
of Famine, established by the Secretary-General and cochaired by the ERC and the UNDP Administrator, with
participation from UN agencies and the World Bank.
OCHA also took the lead in organizing two high-level
events—one with the World Bank on the margins of its
Spring Meetings, and another on the margins of the
General Assembly, co-chaired by the Secretary-General
and the President of the World Bank. OCHA’s leadership
on the ground and coordinated support at Headquarters in New York led to over 60 per cent of the required
$4.9 billion for all four countries being secured, which
allowed for life-saving operations to be immediately scaled up.
The High-Level Partnership Mission fielded in the Horn
of Africa not only generated additional resources from
non-traditional donors in a timely manner, but also unlocked significant funding for the first time from development financial institutions, such as the World Bank
($50 million for Somalia) and the African Development
Bank ($78 million for Somalia and South Sudan).
By August 2017, the UN and its partners were providing
food and other life-saving assistance to nearly 13 million people per month. Food insecurity remained severe,
but localized famine was reversed in South Sudan and
averted in north-east Nigeria, Somalia and Yemen.

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

Field offices
SOUTHERN AND EASTERN AFRICA

Regional Office for
Southern and Eastern Africa (ROSEA)

In 2017, Southern and Eastern Africa experienced multiple humanitarian crises affecting
16 countries in the region, including Africa’s
largest refugee outflow from South Sudan
into Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan and Uganda.
In response, OCHA ROSEA deployed staff
to 18 countries in 73 missions over 1,146
days to strengthen operational readiness,
humanitarian coordination, needs assessments, information management, analysis,
advocacy and fundraising. The staff helped
develop flash appeals (Kenya, Madagascar
and Mozambique), HRPs (Ethiopia and
Somalia), contingency plans (Botswana,
Comoros, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Swaziland and Zimbabwe), and CERF proposals (Angola, Burundi, Kenya, Madagascar, Mozambique, Uganda and Zimbabwe).
ROSEA staff were deployed to Ethiopia, Somalia and South Sudan to support famine
prevention and response, and protection and
access negotiations. The Southern African
Development Community received support
to finalize its Emergency Preparedness and
Response Strategy.
A 10-person UNDAC team supported response coordination in Madagascar following
widespread devastation and flooding caused
by Tropical Cyclone Enawo.
Based out of Nairobi, ROSEA had 44 staff (16
international, 28 national) during 2017, including in Johannesburg and the Madagascar
Humanitarian Advisory Team. As part of the
consolidation of OCHA’s regional presences,
ROSEA began downsizing its presence in
Johannesburg to close by 31 March 2018.

Eritrea

As Eritrea does not have a stand-alone HRP,
OCHA produced essential service-response
priorities project sheets for donors, requesting $20 million for basic-services projects
for the year. OCHA helped to raise money
for the 2017-2021 joint UN-Government
of the State of Eritrea Strategic Partnership
Cooperation Framework (SPCF), which was
funded at 30 per cent at the end of 2017, the
first year of the five-year programme. Using
its situational analysis as a basis, OCHA led
the UN Country Team (UNCT) contingency
planning and preparedness process, focusing
on basic services and ensuring that all humanitarian issues were integrated into the
wider development planning. OCHA worked
closely with the newly established Resilience
Task Force to include resilience programmes
into the 2017-2021 SPCF. OCHA Eritrea is
based in Asmara. The team comprises seven
staff, two of whom are international.

Improving coordination
OCHA’s Programme Support Branch (PSB) chairs the
Global Cluster Coordinators Group (GCCG) in Geneva. In 2017, the group helped develop the Standard
Inter-Cluster Coordination Group (ICCG) Terms of
Reference, which has brought clarity to the roles and
responsibilities of ICCGs in the field.
In 2017, PSB and GCCG supported architecture reviews
in DRC, Mozambique and Sudan through inter-agency
field missions, which have helped to strengthen the
functioning of coordination structures in the field.

Making the case for cash
Cash-based interventions, such as providing cash
in lieu of donated food to beneficiaries, have been
instrumental in enabling an early and rapid scale-up of
the response.
The improved integration of cash coordination throughout OCHA was supported via regular field office
engagement; an updated guidance note; field trips to
Ethiopia, Kenya and Nigeria; and the integration of cash
into standard guidance, training and technical support
provided by relevant substantive sections. The capacity
of OCHA staff to coordinate this modality has been
further increased via two active learning events.

19

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

20

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

South Sudan

Wau town, South
Sudan
A displaced woman
outside her shelter
in the Nazareth
church compound
in Wau town, South
Sudan (March 2017),
where about 3,000
people had been
sheltering since
violence broke out
in June 2016.
Credit: OCHA/
Guiomar Pau Sole

As the crisis in South Sudan intensified in
2017, OCHA’s coordination and advocacy
helped to ensure that nearly 140 humanitarian partners assisted more than 5.4 million
people through $1.2 billion of secured funding towards the HRP.
OCHA coordinated a multisectoral famine
response to provide life-saving services to
some 338,000 people in the worst-affected
locations. OCHA led humanitarian partners’ engagement with the UN mission in
South Sudan on the protection of civilians
and the delivery of humanitarian assistance.
The office monitored humanitarian access
constraints and advocated with authorities
for the removal of arbitrary bureaucratic
impediments, making progress, for example,
regarding NGO registration fees.

The South Sudan Humanitarian Fund allocated $62 million in 2017, and the OCHA
office coordinated humanitarian partners
to develop a $15 million grant from CERF
for South Sudan. OCHA had 31 international and 53 national staff in South Sudan in
2017. In addition to Juba, OCHA maintained
sub-offices in Central, Eastern and Western
Equatoria, Northern and Western Bahr el
Ghazal, Jonglei, Lakes, Upper Nile and Unity.

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

21

Sudan

In 2017, OCHA led the development of Sudan’s first Multi-Year Humanitarian Strategy,
covering the period 2017-2019, which sets
out a strategic approach to the country’s
large-scale protracted emergency, including
building links to development action.
OCHA led multisector assessments and
developed rapid response plans to scale up
assistance to areas in Darfur’s Jebel Marra
region, as well as in Blue Nile and South
Kordofan, which became accessible for the
first time in several years. To respond in
these areas, OCHA worked with partners
to ensure the strategic use of resources from
CERF’s Rapid Response and Underfunded
Emergencies windows, as well as the Sudan
Humanitarian Fund.
OCHA worked closely with the Government
to help implement revised humanitarian
directives, released in December 2016, including establishing an updated system for
travel notification and a monitoring system
to track progress.
OCHA Sudan had 91 staff members (21 international, 70 national), with seven subnational
offices in Damazine, Ed Daein, El Fasher, El
Geneina, Kadugli, Nyala and Zalingei, and
an additional office in Abyei.

Strengthening data
sharing and joint analysis
Common Operational Data Sets (CODs) are authoritative reference data sets that underpin all preparedness
and response operations, allowing data sharing as
well as joint assessments, analysis, planning, implementation and monitoring. The most important
CODs are related to administrative boundaries and
population, which form the basis for all data related to
communities.
In 2017, OCHA led an inter-agency effort to improve
the quality and availability of core CODs in almost 100
countries, with workstreams on guidance, governance,
partnerships, advocacy, training, technology and data
processing. Much of the work was done by OCHA staff
in country and regional offices who worked with national Governments and local actors to find, refine, endorse
and disseminate their CODs.
By the end of 2017, administrative boundary CODs for
all 30 countries with ongoing operations and 64 preparedness countries had been brought up to standard,
which has ensured that related analysis, information
products and services are more collaborative, accurate and timely.
CODs COUNTRY STANDARDIZATION
BY THE END OF 2017
30/30

OPERATIONAL
COUNTRIES

64/77

PREPAREDNESS
COUNTRIES

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

22

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA

Regional Office for
West and Central Africa (ROWCA)

OCHA supported the Oslo Humanitarian
Conference on Nigeria and the Lake Chad
Region in February. This high-level donor
meeting raised awareness and increased
funding to the countries affected by the Lake
Chad Basin crisis. Fourteen donors pledged
$458 million for 2017 and an additional $214
million for 2018 and beyond.

The Sahel region continued to face immense
crises due to extreme weather, poverty and
violent extremism, all of which led to 24 million people requiring humanitarian assistance.

In 2017, ROWCA had 39 staff (18 international, 21 national) in its main office in
Dakar, Senegal, and its Humanitarian Advisory Teams in Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire
and Mauritania (the latter two closed during the year).

ROWCA helped nine countries (Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, CAR, Chad, Mali,
Mauritania, Republic of Congo and Senegal)
develop high-quality HNOs, HRPs, humanitarian workplans and advocacy documents.
It deployed 16 staff for 720 days to support
emergency response efforts in ongoing crises,
including 223 days in Nigeria, 195 days in
Burundi and 86 days in Kasai, DRC.

Burundi

The socioeconomic crisis and political instability in Burundi led to a further deterioration of the humanitarian situation, with
3.6 million people requiring humanitarian
assistance by the end of 2017, up from 1.1
ROWCA reacted early to signs of drought, million in 2016.
particularly in Cabo Verde, Mauritania and
Senegal, supporting multisectoral assessment In 2017, OCHA encouraged a joint advocacy
missions, sectoral coordination, and the de- action related to a restrictive law adopted
velopment of response plans and advocacy in January 2017 that controls the actions of
products. ROWCA also participated in the national and international NGOs, and which
UNDAC mission to Sierra Leone after the could affect humanitarian access.
mudslides in August.
The OCHA team in Bujumbura increased
ROWCA strengthened emergency prepared- collaboration with its national counterpart,
ness in high-risk countries across the region: the National Platform on Risk Reduction
it helped roll out the IASC Emergency Re- and Disaster Management, by conducting
sponse Preparedness approach in six coun- two joint multisector needs assessments
tries (Cameroon, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea, during the year.
Liberia and Nigeria’s Borno State), and it
continued to assist the Gambia and Ghana, OCHA helped set up a task force comprising
where the approach was rolled out in 2016. health sector actors and donors under the
leadership of the Ministry of Health and the
In January 2017, ROWCA and UNDP or- World Health Organization, which contained
ganized a West and Central Africa Regional a severe malaria outbreak that caused more
Policy Dialogue in Dakar on the New Way of than 3,000 deaths in 2017. In early 2017,
Working to strengthen understanding of the OCHA coordinated a $3.5 million CERF
approach and enable sharing of experiences. Rapid Response allocation to support 20,000
food insecure households. In 2017, OCHA

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

supported the mobilization of 63 per cent of
the 2017 HRP’s $73.7 million in requirements.
The office had 12 staff (5 international, 7 national) during 2017, all based in Bujumbura.
Cameroon

In 2017, about 2.9 million people (12 per cent
of the population) were affected by multiple
crises fuelled by violence and conflict in the
Lake Chad Basin and the Central African
Republic (CAR), as well as food insecurity,
mostly in the Adamawa, Far North, North
and East regions. Due to the increasing humanitarian needs, OCHA scaled up its presence in 2017 by opening a country office in
Yaounde and establishing a satellite office
in Kousseri, in addition to its presence in
Maroua (comprising 7 international and 12
national staff). This scale-up enabled OCHA
to strengthen coordination structures and
swiftly respond to new emerging crises.
OCHA helped to develop key strategic documents, including the 2018 HNO and HRP,
a HCT protection and access strategy, and
a HCT joint note to guide the return of
internally displaced persons (IDPs). OCHA
Cameroon supported the HCT in enacting
key outcomes from the World Humanitarian
Summit, such as multi-year planning and an
increased use of cash programming. OCHA
coordinated humanitarian agencies to develop proposals for a CERF allocation of $10
million to fund humanitarian response in
the Far North.

Risk analysis in the Sahel
region using the Index for
Risk Management
After the food security crisis in the Sahel in 2012, Governments and their partners wanted to work differently
to break the cycle of crisis, response and underdevelopment. This approach (now recognized in the Sustainable Development Goals and the World Humanitarian
Summit) includes developing a shared analysis of risk
and reducing barriers between humanitarian and development systems.
OCHA’s Regional Office for West and Central Africa
(ROWCA) led the development of an Index for Risk
Management (INFORM) model for the Sahel—a risk
analysis that can support the prioritization of activities.
Support came from the INFORM initiative—a partnership of humanitarian, development, Government and
technical partners—also coordinated at the global
level by OCHA.
In 2017, OCHA ROWCA, with support from OCHA’s
Information Services Branch, adapted the model for the
United Nations Integrated Strategy for the Sahel, which
will cover all UN system activities in the region for
2018-2022. Through this work, OCHA intends to help
facilitate durable solutions for people affected by and
at risk of crises in the Sahel.

MAURITANIA

MALI

NIGER
CHAD

SENEGAL
GAMBIA

2018 INFORM +
Risk Index

GUINEA

BURKINA
FA S O
NIGERIA

CAMEROON

23

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

24

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

With 83 staff (24 international, 59 national),
OCHA CAR maintained its presence in 10 loIn 2017, the humanitarian situation in CAR cations including the national office (Bangui),
deteriorated to an unprecedented level since sub-offices (Bambari, Bouar, Kaga Bandoro)
the 2012-2013 crisis. In 2017 alone, the num- and satellite offices (Batangafo, Beberati, Bober of IDPs increased by 70 per cent, from caranga, Bria, Kouango, Paoua).
400,000 to 693,000. Public advocacy on the
humanitarian consequences of the crisis resulted in increased media coverage, including Chad
coverage of the UN Secretary-General’s visit
in October 2017.
In 2017, Chad continued to face several protracted crises. Some 4.7 million people, or one
OCHA helped mobilize funding for the 2017 third of the population, required humanitarHRP, which received 41 per cent of its $497.3 ian assistance.
million requirement. OCHA coordinated
the CERF allocation of $16 million, and the In line with the New Way of Working,
CAR Humanitarian Fund disbursed $22.1 OCHA steered the humanitarian communimillion to 63 projects, including more than ty to develop a multi-year response frame$2 million for sensitization and response to work covering 2017-2019. The framework
is aligned with the United Nations Develgender-based violence (GBV).
opment Assistance Framework and the NaOCHA supported the establishment of a tional Development Plan. Humanitarian and
Humanitarian Forum and a Crisis Commit- development partners identified six collective
tee to allow for dialogue and agreement on outcomes to be achieved by 2019.
various strategies, as well as a way forward
on humanitarian action. The HCT adopted OCHA was instrumental in the creation of a
the Code of Conduct for humanitarian ac- Humanitarian-Development Forum, which
tors in relation to PSEA, while the HC, the met in June to focus on strengthening the
Special Representative of the Secretary-Gen- humanitarian-development nexus initially
eral for the Central African Republic and the in the Lac region and southern and eastern
MINUSCA Force Commander signed the Chad. OCHA supported the HC and the HCT
Guidelines on Civil-Military Coordination. in developing common positions on policy
issues, including assistance to people formerly
associated with Boko Haram.
Central African Republic

Tagal, Chad
This photo was
taken in Tagal, a
fishing village
outside the town of
Baga Sola, on the
shores of Lake Chad.
UNHCR and Chadian
Red Cross run a
project to support
refugee fishermen
by providing them
with pirogues and
fishing nets in
Tagal. Many of the
refugees have fled
Boko Haram attacks
on the Nigerian side
of the lake.
Credit: OCHA/
Naomi Frerotte

In 2017, the OCHA office in Chad had 47
staff (17 international, 30 national) based in
Ndjamena and four sub-offices.

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

Mali

Niger

The humanitarian situation in Mali continued to deteriorate. In 2017, more than
30,000 people were newly displaced, while
3.8 million people needed humanitarian assistance. By the end of the year, 1.32 million
people (96 per cent of the target population)
received assistance, and the HRP was funded
at 44 per cent, with $134 million received.
Mali also received $7 million from CERF’s
Underfunded Emergencies window.

In 2017, Niger faced several crises, with at
least 1.9 million people needing humanitarian assistance, including about 250,000
severely malnourished children. In the Diffa
region, 250,000 IDPs and Nigerian refugees
were uprooted due to the Boko Haram-induced conflict.

OCHA supported the Rapid Response Mechanism (RRM) set up by the International
Rescue Committee and rolled out by interIn 2017, OCHA facilitated a review of the national non-governmental organizations
HCT, which led to the inclusion of a nation- (INGOs) in the Diffa region, in cooperation
al NGO representative in the team. OCHA with the Danish Refugee Council and ACTstrengthened the involvement of national ED, the French NGO. The RRM enabled
NGOs in coordination structures. It also humanitarian actors to respond rapidly to
identified NGO humanitarian focal points the most urgent needs at the onset of new
in areas where it could not be present, which displacements via multisector assessments
led to establishing coordination structures in and joint response operations.
all priority zones.
In 2017, protection monitoring activities
Humanitarians faced an increasingly danger- were strengthened substantially, and OCHA
ous operating environment, with a doubling supported the functioning and delivery of
of incidents affecting them between 2016 and the Protection Cluster and its sub-clusters
2017. In response, OCHA scaled up efforts (child protection and GBV). Data-collection
to strengthen civil-military coordination tools and a database were set up under the
and the respect for humanitarian principles supervision of the United Nations High Comand international humanitarian law. OCHA missioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the
revitalized the HCT Access Working Group, Regional Directorate for Child Protection.
trained over 2,000 personnel on humanitar- A protection strategy was initiated in 2017
ian principles and developed guidelines on while OCHA helped UNHCR and CARE
civil-military coordination.
to develop an action plan to improve accountability to affected people for the Diffa
By year’s end, OCHA had helped to enact 34 region. OCHA’s efforts to elevate the profile
per cent of the 64 recommendations from the of the humanitarian situation included the
Peer-to-Peer Support Team mission in Feb- USG/ERC visiting Niger as his first official
ruary 2017. This included the establishment mission. These efforts led to the 2018 HRP
of an HCT PSEA action plan, a mechanism receiving more than 80 per cent of the $288
for cases of sexual exploitation and abuse, and million required.
the creation of a task force to strengthen the
humanitarian-development nexus.
OCHA Niger had 38 staff (9 international, 29
national) in 2017, based out of Niamey and
In 2017, OCHA had 43 staff (14 internation- three sub-offices.
al, 29 national) based in Bamako and in suboffices in Gao, Mopti and Timbuktu.

25

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

26

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

Regional Office for Asia and the
Pacific (ROAP)

Myanmar

The humanitarian situation in Myanmar deteriorated significantly in 2017, due to the
25 August attacks by the Arakan Rohingya
Salvation Army and subsequent operations
by the Myanmar security forces.

Kachin State,
Myanmar
This photograph
was taken in a camp
for displaced people
in Mang Wing
Gyi, Kachin State,
Myanmar, in May
2017.
Credit: OCHA/Htet
Htet Oo

Despite extremely restricted access, OCHA’s
Located in Bangkok, Thailand, and covering continued presence in Kachin/Shan helped
the world’s most disaster-prone region, with to ensure coordinated and effective humanover 40 per cent of the world’s registered itarian action. In central Rakhine, OCHA
natural disasters between 2010 and 2015, coordinated a joint response to the signifiOCHA ROAP staff spent 995 days deployed cant new needs and the changed conditions
to support 13 crises during 2017. This is the following 25 August (when the exodus to
highest number of days since ROAP was Bangladesh began) and Cyclone Mora. The
established in 2004. Fifteen staff members Myanmar Humanitarian Fund disbursed
were deployed to Bangladesh to respond nearly $10 million to help 443,000 people
to the Rohingya refugee crisis and to eight in need, with national responders receiving
crises in other regions. ROAP worked with over 40 per cent of the funds.
HCTs to prepare HRPs for Bangladesh and
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea OCHA’s presence in Myanmar includes 56
(DPRK), six country response plans and 12 staff (11 international, 45 national) across
four offices: the head office in Yangon, and
CERF-funded grant proposals.
sub-offices in Lashio (Shan), Myitkyina
ROAP directly supported response readiness (Kachin) and Sittwe (Rakhine).
efforts in 12 countries. Operational partnerships in the region were strengthened
through initiatives such as providing training to Chinese civil-society organizations
in Beijing (December 2017), and support to
regional networks, including the Regional
Consultative Group on Humanitarian Civil-Military Coordination for Asia and the
Pacific, and the Regional Gender in Humanitarian Action Working Group.
ROAP had 30 staff (18 international, 12 national), and it maintains Humanitarian Advisory Teams in DPRK, Indonesia and Japan.

New private sector networks
launched in the Pacific

The Connecting Business initiative, a joint initiative of
OCHA and UNDP, supported 13 private sector networks
in 2017 in setting up and strengthening strategic private sector engagement in areas related to disaster risk
reduction, and emergency preparedness, response and
recovery. New networks were launched in Côte d’Ivoire,
Vanuatu and the Pacific region. Eight of the 13 networks responded to emergencies together with national
and international actors. OCHA’s partnership with the
World Economic Forum (WEF) led to the development
and launch of the WEF’s Principles of Public-Private
Cooperation in Humanitarian Payments in 2017.

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

27

OCHA facilitated $7.5 million in CERF
allocations from the Rapid Response and
Covering 14 Pacific Island countries and un- Underfunded Emergencies windows, which
der the leadership of two United Nations Res- formed the largest international contribuident Coordinators, the Office of the Pacific tion to the humanitarian response. Under
(OoP) continued to facilitate preparedness OCHA’s leadership, the HCT completed a
and response of the Pacific Humanitarian contingency plan for responding to a cataTeam (PHT), which OCHA co-chairs. In strophic typhoon and began preparations for
2017, the PHT supported the Government a large-scale earthquake.
of Vanuatu’s response to category 3 Cyclone
Donna, which affected 51,000 people, and a OCHA strengthened information managemass evacuation of 11,000 people due to an ment in the Philippines through strategic
partnerships with recognized leaders in
active volcano on Ambae Island.
non-humanitarian fields, including with
To optimize response readiness, OoP NASA to develop a tool that assesses the
launched the Country Preparedness Package vulnerability of women to GBV in a ty(CPP), a joint initiative by the Governments phoon scenario.
and the PHT to strengthen preparedness and
collaboration between national and inter- OCHA Philippines had 23 staff (3 internanational actors in disaster response. Two tional, 20 national) in 2017, with a subnaCPPs—Vanuatu and the Republic of the tional office.
Marshall Islands—were finalized in 2017. OoP
helped the Pacific Humanitarian Partnership
to build on World Humanitarian Summit
outcomes concerning location and humanitarian preparedness. OoP provided support
to Government-led responses, including to
assessments, mapping and infographics, but
Developing capacity in
without overwhelming the existing national
structures. OCHA deployed staff, for example,
information management
to the National Emergency Operations Centre in the Solomon Islands to provide techniOCHA is known for its expertise in information mancal backstopping support to the Government.
Office of the Pacific

Based in Suva, Fiji, OoP had six staff (two
international, four national) during 2017.
Philippines

OCHA Philippines mobilized international
humanitarian assistance for nearly 360,000
people displaced by the conflict in Marawi
City in Mindanao.

agement (IM). One in ten field staff are engaged in IM,
which covers a diverse set of activities, each requiring
its own skill sets and knowledge. Since 2013, OCHA
has regularly surveyed IM staff to better understand
this diversity.

In 2017, OCHA established a framework that recognized five key skill sets within its Information Management Officer community: coordinators, who lead IM
teams and work with partners; data analysts, who look
for trends, relationships and understanding in data;
content managers, who make information easy to find
and share; mappers, who use geography to analyse and
present information; and visualizers, who find creative
ways to make complex information easy to understand.
This framework is being increasingly used to underpin
recruitment, operational planning and training so that
IM teams in the field can be as effective as possible.

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

28

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

EUROPE, CENTRAL ASIA AND THE CAUCASUS

Regional Office for the
Caucasus and Central Asia (ROCCA)

Khost City,
Afghanistan
Sahit-Jan with his
three children. He
and his family
fled conflict to
seek refuge in
Khost, the capital
of Khost Province,
at the border with
Pakistan.
Credit: OCHA/
Philippe Kropf

tool (KIANA) in 2018. OCHA supported the
introduction of a subnational Index for Risk
Management in all Central Asia and South
Caucasus countries.

ROCCA helped create an enabling environment for the implementation of the UN-Government Customs Agreements signed in
2016 in Armenia and Tajikistan, and for the
ROCCA organized a regional simulation ex- International Humanitarian Assistance Law
ercise in Georgia in 2017 to improve the co- in Kyrgyzstan, by organizing a study tour for
ordination of regional humanitarian response. representatives of the three Governments to
The exercise helped UN Country Teams in Nepal, in addition to other support measures.
all three South Caucasus countries to prepare the ground for conflict-based regional During 2017, ROCCA had nine staff (three
international, six national) located in Almaty,
contingency planning in 2018.
with three Humanitarian Advisory Teams
The Multi-Sector Initial Rapid Assessment (HATs). ROCCA closed in early 2018, but
methodology was adapted, translated and OCHA maintains a presence in the region
introduced in Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan through HATs in Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrand Tajikistan. The Ministry of Emergency gyzstan and Tajikistan.

Situations endorsed the Armenia Inter-Agen- Afghanistan
cy Needs Assessment methodology as a national tool for the Disaster Management Afghanistan is one of the world’s most comCountry Team-Government joint assessment. plex humanitarian emergencies, characterized by escalating conflict and causing over 1
In Kyrgyzstan, preparations were made for million people to live in new and prolonged
the endorsement and application of a similar displacement. By the end of 2017, some 3.3

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

million people required humanitarian assistance. In 2017, OCHA Afghanistan helped
to maintain the country as a top priority for
donors through the HCT, donor group and
bilateral engagements, making Afghanistan’s
HRP the world’s second most funded plan
(78 per cent). Afghanistan’s Common Humanitarian Fund received nearly $39 million,
reaching the targeted 10-15 per cent of the
proportion of HRP requirements.

29

are anchored in livelihoods and access to
basic services, while ensuring humanitarian
needs are met.

OCHA participated in cash-based programming initiatives, including the development of
policy for Government partners, assessments
of cash programming, donor engagement,
and providing secretariat and information
management support to the Cash Working
Group. The Pakistan Humanitarian Pooled
OCHA led joint work on the 2018-2021 Fund has proven to be an effective tool in
multi-year HRP—the first of its kind for Af- localizing the response in hard-to-access arghanistan—distinguishing between people eas of return by focusing on national NGOs
with acute and chronic needs for the first and gender action. In 2017, UN Women
time, and recognizing the need for consider- and OCHA developed a joint action plan for
able development assistance in parallel with gender equality.
humanitarian aid.
OCHA Pakistan had 35 staff (5 international,
In 2017, OCHA Afghanistan had 91 staff (18 30 national) during 2017, based in Islamabad
international, 73 national) based out of Kabul and with a sub-office in Peshawar.
and six subnational offices.
Pakistan

Humanitarian action in 2017 centred on the
Afghan-Pakistan border region of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA),
where some 5 million people had been displaced due to militancy, sectarian conflicts
and Government-led security operations
against non-State armed actors. OCHA’s
support to coordination structures enabled
the successful return of over 275,000 IDP
families in FATA since 2015. By the end
of 2017, all but 29,000 families had been
facilitated to return. Pakistan also hosts 1.4
million Afghan refugees and an estimated 1
million undocumented Afghans who remain
extremely vulnerable.
OCHA became one of the strategic contributors in the development of a humanitarian-development nexus strategy in Pakistan,
initiating a three-year (2018-2020) FATA
Transition Plan. This brings together the
Government, the UN, the World Bank,
NGOs and donors to ensure that returns

Recording progress on
agendaforhumanity.org
After the World Humanitarian Summit, OCHA created
the Platform for Action, Commitments and Transformation (PACT—agendaforhumanity.org) as an online hub
for transparency and accountability, and to record voluntary progress reported on the more than 3,700 commitments made to advance the Agenda for Humanity.
In 2017, 142 stakeholders reported on the progress of
the five core responsibilities and 24 transformations of
the Agenda for Humanity. OCHA worked with over 30
partners, including national and international NGOs, UN
agencies and leads of initiatives launched at the Summit, to provide an in-depth analysis and a cross-cutting
view on progress and gaps. This culminated in OCHA’s
publication of No Time to Retreat—the first annual synthesis report on progress since the Summit.
The report covers progress on bridging the humanitarian-development divide; new approaches to address
displacement; efforts to support local action; targeted
financing to reduce need, risk and vulnerability; and
initiatives launched at the Summit that drive change
in areas such as disability, preparedness and private
sector engagement.

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

30

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

Sviatohirsk, Ukraine
During her mission
to Ukraine, Deputy
ERC Mueller met
with this IDP, who
was then living in
the collective centre
in Sviatohirsk, a
town in Donetsk
Oblast, Ukraine. To
maintain family
ties, she would
often travel through
the checkpoints
separating
Governmentcontrolled areas
from those beyond
the Government’s
control.
Credit: OCHA/
Valijon Ranoev

Ukraine

The armed conflict in eastern Ukraine continued to claim lives, damage critical civilian infrastructure and trigger humanitarian
needs, affecting 4.4 million people in 2017.
The sub-offices in Kramatorsk, Mariupol
and Sievierodonetsk in Government-controlled areas, and in Donetsk and Luhansk
in non-Government-controlled areas (NGCAs), provided much needed coordination,
including along the ‘contact line’, which was
crossed by approximately 1 million people
every month despite the danger and hardship. In NGCAs, OCHA helped to set up the
Area-Humanitarian Coordination Group in
mid-2017 to strengthen operational coordination and increase access.
The 2018 HRP was enhanced by the application of the new IASC Gender and Age
Marker, making Ukraine the first country
to apply the revised marker. OCHA worked
to translate efforts on the humanitarian-development nexus into tangible results, including a joined-up approach to provide durable
solutions for internally displaced Ukrainians.
OCHA Ukraine had 41 staff (9 international,
32 national) in 2017, working from Kyiv and
five sub-offices.

Multi-year Humanitarian
Response Plans
In 2017, OCHA’s Programme Support Branch innovated
and adapted coordination tools in line with the Agenda
for Humanity. One example is the adoption of multi-year
HRPs/strategies in countries including Afghanistan,
Cameroon, CAR, Chad, DRC, Haiti, oPt, Somalia and
Sudan. These types of plans support the humanitarian-development nexus.

OCHA’s advocacy efforts
with the EU to uphold
humanitarian principles
Advocacy on the need to respect principled aid allocations and delivery, avoid the risk of aid politicization,
and analysis on the opportunities and risks of an integrated approach were key features of the engagement
of OCHA’s Brussels Liaison Office (BLO) during the year.
The office organized an event for the 10-year anniversary of the European Consensus on Humanitarian Aid
with the European Parliament, European Commission,
European Council and key partners (UN and NGOs)
that led the EU to re-commit to the Consensus and the
principles it enshrines. In addition, the Brussels office
participated in the annual ECHO Partners Conference
in a panel that discussed humanitarian advocacy and
an integrated approach. The combination of advocacy
events and sustained engagement by BLO and other
partners, including first and foremost ECHO, led to
Council Conclusions that reiterated the principled
nature of aid, the need to abide by international law and
the separation from political agendas.

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

31

LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

Regional Office for Latin America and the
Caribbean (ROLAC)

disaster preparedness and response through
cooperative work.

An UNDAC team of 12 experts was deployed
to Peru to assist in conducting a multisectoral rapid needs assessment and provide
information management support following
widespread flooding after weeks of torrential
rains. This was caused by “coastal El Niño”, a
In 2017, ROLAC and UNDAC teams re- localized version of the larger El Niño weathsponded to two successive hurricanes and er phenomenon. More than 120,000 people
two earthquakes within a three-week period. suffered losses, and over 800,000 people were
Pre-positioning staff a few days before Hur- affected by the floods.
ricane Irma made landfall enabled a rapid
response, and it allowed rapid re-deployment ROLAC, with 35 staff (7 international, 28
and response to the devastating impact of national), is based in Panama and oversaw 8
Hurricane Maria, which followed Irma.
HATs in the region during 2017.
At the same time, ROLAC led the UNDAC
response to two earthquakes in Mexico, supporting national authorities by coordinating
search and rescue, fostering the regional
exchange of good practices and strengthening the International Search and Rescue
Advisory Group for more effective earthquake response.
Parallel to efforts to mitigate the consequences of hurricanes and earthquakes, ROLAC
increased the protection of and assistance
to victims of gang violence in El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras by effectively advocating that the consequences of gang violence
are similar to those in conflict situations, and
they include grave violations of human rights, Colombia
recruitment of children and reduced access
Colombia continued to face humanitarian
to health and education.
needs caused by disputes over territorial
During the Meeting on the International control by armed groups that resulted in
Mechanisms for Humanitarian Assistance attacks against civilians, access restrictions
in Peru, OCHA and the Caribbean Disaster and displacement in territories left by the
Emergency Management Agency signed a Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia
memorandum of understanding, ensuring following the peace accord of 24 November
direct positive engagement of the 18 par- 2016. OCHA supported the implementation
ticipating States from the Caribbean region of the New Way of Working by establishing
on humanitarian issues in multilateral fo- 12 Local Coordination Teams (LCTs), suprums and on humanitarian financing. The porting the transition of leadership in several
memorandum also formalizes the commit- of the LCTs to other agencies and NGOs.
ment to build a framework to strengthen

Dominica
The aftermath of
Hurricane Maria
in Dominica. This
photo was taken
on 19 September
2017, a day after
the hurricane made
landfall in Dominica.
Credit: OCHA/
Sheldon Casimir

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

32

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

Département Sud,
Haiti
An isolated house
in the Commune
de Roseaux,
Département
Sud, some 40
km north-west of
Les Cailles, Haiti.
Three months after
Hurricane Matthew
struck south-west
Haiti, damage
in hard-to-reach,
remote rural areas
was still visible.
Humanitarian
partners relied
on helicopters
to deliver
emergency and
recovery supplies
to scattered
communities.
Credit: OCHA/
Christophe
Illemassene

OCHA supported a joint Information Management Unit covering humanitarian, peace
and development areas, including the design
of a Peacebuilding Overview and peace needs
assessments. OCHA supported partners in
developing the 2018 HNO/HRP, which identified over 4.9 million people in need.

million people primarily in Haiti’s southwest regions.

OCHA Haiti helped to make the humanitarian response more efficient by establishing
two sub-offices in the north and south of the
country, supporting humanitarian partners to
reach over 1 million vulnerable Haitians with
OCHA supported 17 rapid assessments, humanitarian assistance in the most-affected
mainly in remote rural communities, which regions. OCHA coordinated the development
underpinned data to support funding re- of the 2017-2018 multi-year HRP to address
quests to the Colombia Humanitarian Fund. the needs arising from various persistent
OCHA promoted the use of Multi-Sector issues, such as food insecurity, the cholera
Initial Rapid Assessments in urban areas epidemic and vulnerabilities of returning
and in neighbourhoods affected by mobility Haitians from the Dominican Republic.
restrictions and human rights violations.
In 2017, OCHA Haiti had 23 staff members (3
OCHA supported the HCT to develop an international, 20 national) in Port-au-Prince
Inter-Agency Emergency Response Plan and and two sub-offices.
an Inter-Agency Border Response Plan for
the Venezuelan border crisis.
In 2017, OCHA Colombia had 21 staff (3
international, 18 national) in Bogota and
eight sub-offices.
Haiti

Throughout 2017, humanitarian actors
continued to respond to the needs of people
affected by Hurricane Matthew, which hit
the country in October 2016, impacting 1.4

Response Planning Module
In 2017, significant progress was made in developing
information services supporting the programme cycle.
The Response Planning Module (RPM) was deployed
in a dozen humanitarian contexts to monitor results
against humanitarian response monitoring frameworks. The RPM will improve OCHA’s ability to collect
information on the results and impact of the collective response.

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

Regional Office for the Middle East and North
Africa (ROMENA)

The LCRP was 45 per cent funded, receiving $1.24 billion, making it one of the
best-funded response plans globally in terms
of total funding.

Through the Access Task Force, OCHA
Lebanon supported INGOs and helped them
obtain visas and work permits in country.
OCHA also led the reflection process to opROMENA provided surge support in coor- erationalize the humanitarian-development
dination, public information and informa- nexus in Lebanon through more joined-up
tion management, as well as administrative programming, more predictable multi-year
support to the IASC Level 3 responses in funding and stronger links with the World
Iraq, Syria and Yemen, and the expanding Bank and other organizations.
operation in Libya.
OCHA Lebanon had 22 staff (7 international,
ROMENA strengthened partnerships in 15 national) during 2017.
support of effective humanitarian action in
the Middle East and North Africa, a region
dealing with diverse humanitarian challenges. Building on its presence in Cairo, OCHA
engaged with the League of Arab States to
provide briefings on humanitarian operations, focusing on access and the protection of
civilians. ROMENA also provided translation
services for OCHA across the globe. During
2017, ROMENA supported 14 surge missions
(322 mission days on surge) to CAR, Iraq,
Jordan, Libya/Tunisia, Turkey and Yemen. Partnership with Gulf
ROMENA had a staff of 16 (6 international, 10 national) during 2017 and managed Member States strengthened
a HAT in Iran.
Lebanon

In Lebanon, OCHA helped mobilize continued support for the Lebanon Humanitarian
Fund (LHF) and the Lebanon Crisis Response
Plan (LCRP) to bring much-needed support
to 1.9 million highly vulnerable Syrian and
Palestinian refugees, and to Lebanese host
communities.
OCHA Lebanon orchestrated a strong advocacy campaign to re-energize donor support
for the LHF, mobilizing $12.6 million from
seven donors for 2017.

A significant scale-up of resources for OCHA and
the humanitarian system happened in 2017 due to
strengthened partnerships with key Gulf Member States
and NGOs, through joined up efforts from OCHA’s Gulf
Liaison Office in Abu Dhabi, the ASG for Humanitarian
Partnerships for the Middle East and Central Asia, and
the Partnerships and Resource Mobilization Branch.
The United Arab Emirates ($2 million/year to OCHA)
and Qatar ($10 million/year to OCHA for the next
four years) enhanced their investment in OCHA. The
increased level of trust and worthiness of these partnerships with the Middle East was also reflected in the
request from the King Salman Centre of Saudi Arabia to
support the development of its response plan in 2017,
thereby creating opportunities for alignment with standard multilateral instruments, such as the HRPs.
OCHA’s partnerships also helped key actors fulfil their
World Humanitarian Summit commitments, such as the
Middle East and North Africa Youth capacity-building in
Humanitarian Action by Reach Out to Asia.

33

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

34

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

and funding, including through the Gaza
Urgent Funding Appeal, which was 80 per
In 2017, ongoing conflict in populated areas cent funded and included a $4.2 million CERF
directly affected an estimated 1.62 million grant. OCHA coordinated the provision of
people in Libya. Affected populations across emergency fuel, preventing a collapse of basic
Libya continue to face protection challeng- health, water and sanitation services.
es, including risk of death and injury due to
indiscriminate use of weapons, freedom of In the context of 50 years of occupation and
movement restrictions and conflict-related 10 years of blockades on Gaza, OCHA coorpsychological trauma.
dinated a HCT advocacy campaign, including
10 field visits attended by 13 Member States.
The Libya Country Office was established in OCHA provided 184 in-house and field-based
2017 in Tunis in response to growing coor- briefings, including for the United Nations
dination demands and a deepening humani- Secretary-General. OCHA updated its needs
tarian crisis in the country, expanding to six assessment of 46 Bedouin and herder comstaff (four international, two national) by the munities at risk of forcible transfer, managed
end of 2017, and two additional personnel the allocation of over $11 million from the
through partners.
oPt Humanitarian Fund, and led the development of a multi-year humanitarian strategy
Despite its small presence, OCHA delivered covering 2018-2020.
on core coordination functions in a challenging environment of limited access and mostly With a team of 52 staff (7 international, 45
remote operations out of Tunisia, given the national), OCHA maintains a main office in
active evacuation status for Libya (lifted in East Jerusalem and four sub-offices in Gaza,
February 2018). The 2018 HNO and HRP Hebron, Nablus and Ramallah.
were developed with a strengthened evidence
base and cross-sectoral analysis, and flash
updates were issued in response to escalations
Improving needs assessments
in Al Maya, Azizyah, Derna and Sabrata.
Libya

The office hosted an IASC peer-to-peer
mission in October to identify and address
coordination challenges ahead of the return of a permanent UN presence to Libya. While the evacuation status remained
in place, OCHA led the effort to enable UN
(humanitarian) agencies to set up a rotational
presence in Tripoli and the first UN visit to
Benghazi since 2014. It also led planning for
expanding humanitarian operations beyond
Tripoli in 2018.
occupied Palestinian territory

About 2 million people in Gaza and the West
Bank required humanitarian assistance during 2017. With dramatic deteriorations in
Gaza, OCHA worked to mobilize attention

Through support to field offices and engagement with
partners (including as part of the Grand Bargain on
Needs Assessments), OCHA’s Programme Support
Branch promoted the improvement of multisectoral
needs assessments and joint, intersectoral analysis
to inform the HNOs and subsequent HRPs, such as in
Libya, Syria, Ukraine and Yemen.
Assessment and analysis during the first phase of an
emergency response are among the core mandates of
UNDAC. In 2017, UNDAC signed cooperation agreements with two partners to strengthen infrastructure
support and its assessment and analysis capacities in
the first phase of an emergency response. The agreements were signed with Humanity & Inclusion (formerly
Handicap International) and the REACH initiative. Atlas
Logistics, an international NGO and the logistics arm
of Humanity & Inclusion, will support UNDAC with
logistics expertise, operations set up and coordination,
and field liaison with other logistics entities, such as
the Logistics Cluster. REACH, a consortium of three
entities (IMPACT Initiative, ACTED and UNOSAT), will
add its expertise in field needs assessments and needs
analysis methodology.

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

35

Humanitarian Financing

OCHA mobilizes and engages several financing instruments, mechanisms and partners to ensure that growing humanitarian
needs are met.

new platform that will facilitate improved
financial tracking, the use of the International
Aid Transparency Initiative Standard and
system-wide monitoring of Grand Bargain
commitments. OCHA also ensures more
At the country level, OCHA helps partners to responsive, predictable and strategic hubuild common strategies and implementation manitarian financing through its leadership
plans and to appeal for funds as a group. This of CERF and Country-Based Pooled Funds
ensures that resource mobilization and fi- (CBPFs) for the humanitarian system.
nancing are handled collectively and are based
on a thorough needs evaluation, making aid The funds are designed to complement other
humanitarian funding sources, such as bilatmore effective, efficient and predictable.
eral contributions, and although they can be
At a global level, this work culminates in the used independently, they work in synergy as
Global Humanitarian Overview, which is complementary tools at the country level.
launched every year in December.
In 2017 for example, $240 million* in coorIn 2017, with Member States and regional dinated allocations from CERF and CBPFs
organizations, OCHA co-hosted pledging were critical to the scale up of humanitarian
events and raised funds for Syria ($6 billion action in north-east Nigeria, Somalia, South
for 2017 and $3.7 billion for 2018-2020); Sudan and Yemen, where more than 20 milYemen ($1.1 billion); Nigeria and the Lake lion people were facing famine. By leverChad region ($458 million) and the Rohingya aging their comparative advantages—such
crisis ($360 million). Pledge fulfilment has as CERF’s disbursement speed and CBPF’s
been beyond 95 per cent.
direct funding for local NGOs—the strategic
use of these funds helped partners deliver a
OCHA’s financial-tracking tools and servic- stronger collective response, covering crites—including the Financial Tracking Service ical gaps and ensuring maximum impact of
(FTS)—help to record and track humanitar- limited resources.
ian donations. In 2017, the FTS launched a *including a $22 million loan from CERF in Somalia

Dubai Airport
To help engage
the public in
its fundraising
efforts, OCHA ran
“click-to-donate”
campaigns with
the help of creative
agencies and
business partners.
For example, the
Ramadan campaign
for Somalia with
Dubai Airports
attracted 10 million
people in four
weeks.
Credit: OCHA/Karim
Saba

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

36

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

CERF

CBPFs

CERF is one of the fastest and most effective
ways to enable urgent life-saving humanitarian action for people affected by crises
anywhere in the world. CERF pools contributions from donors around the world
into a single fund, allowing humanitarian
responders to deliver life-saving assistance
whenever and wherever crises hit. CERF
has a $1 billion annual target, and funding
is fully unearmarked to ensure it goes to meet
the most urgent, life-saving needs. In 2017,
CERF received a record $514 million.

CBPFs enable humanitarian partners operating in countries affected by natural disasters
and armed conflict to deliver timely and
effective life-saving assistance to the people
who need it most. They allow donors to pool
their contributions into single, unearmarked
funds to support local humanitarian efforts.
In 2017, 18 active CBPFs received a record
$832 million.

Funds are allocated through an inclusive and
transparent process in support of priorities
set out in crisis-specific HRPs. This ensures
During emergencies, humanitarian organ- that funding is prioritized locally by those
izations on the ground jointly assess and closest to people in need. Funds are directly
prioritize needs and apply for CERF grants. available to national and international NGOs,
Funds are immediately released if proposals UN agencies and Red Cross/Red Crescent ormeet CERF’s criteria, i.e. the needs are urgent ganizations. In 2017, CBPFs allocated almost
and the proposed activities will save lives. In $700 million to 649 partners in 18 countries
2017, CERF allocated $418 million to support to support 1,256 life-saving humanitarian
urgent humanitarian action in 36 countries. projects targeting millions of people with
health care, food aid, clean water, shelter and
other life-saving assistance.

CERF-recipient country
CBPF-recipient country
CERF- and CBPF-recipient country

Mongolia
Syrian A.R. Afghanistan

Cuba

Turkey1
Lebanon
Iraq
oPt
Libya
Sudan Jordan

Antigua
and Barbuda

Mali Niger

Dominica
Colombia
Peru

Nigeria
Central African Republic
Cameroon
Congo

D.R. of the
Congo
Angola

Madagascar

Mozambique

The CBPF in Turkey supports cross-border operations into Syria.

Myanmar

Bangladesh
Yemen
Ethiopia
South Sudan
Somalia
Kenya
Uganda

Chad

Zimbabwe

1

Nepal
Pakistan

Viet Nam

Sri Lanka

Democratic People's
Republic of Korea
Philippines

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

37

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

ALLOCATIONS BY COUNTRY AND FUNDING MECHANISM

CBPF

Yemen
Ethiopia
Somalia
Iraq
South Sudan
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Sudan
Nigeria
Afghanistan
Turkey
Central African Republic
Syria
Bangladesh
Myanmar
occupied Palestinian territory
Uganda
Chad
Democratic People's Republic of Korea
Madagascar
Angola
Kenya
Niger
Cameroon
Jordan
Cuba
Sri Lanka
Mali
Libya
Pakistan
Lebanon
Peru
Nepal
Congo
Viet Nam
Burundi
Dominica
Philippines
Antigua and Barbuda
Mozambique
Zimbabwe
Colombia
Mongolia

$125.97M
92.34
57.75
76.53
63.20
35.83
32.20
23.96
44.89
45.82
21.84
34.62
9.80
11.74

CERF

CERF

Rapid Response

Underfunded
Emergencies

$33.35M
28.51
15.03
10.00
15.52
26.56
15.46
9.89

6.00

$17.96M

14.17
22.00
10.00
10.00

24.16
6.53
4.24
3.56
6.35
5.00
10.55
10.33

14.99
10.99
6.00
5.96

10.06
10.01
8.46
8.00
7.20
0.36
5.80
5.75
5.17
4.79
4.37
4.21
3.50
3.01
2.48
2.15
2.00
1.59
1.17
1.11

6.91
6.00

TOTAL

$151.53M
120.85
90.74
86.53
78.72
62.39
61.82
55.85
54.88
45.82
37.84
34.62
24.16
16.32
15.98
14.99
14.56
12.35
10.96
10.55
10.33
10.06
10.01
8.46
8.00
7.20
6.91
6.36
5.80
5.75
5.17
4.79
4.37
4.21
3.50
3.01
2.48
2.15
2.00
1.59
1.17
1.11

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

38

Looking
forward
From delivering aid with drones to replacing food
parcels with digital payments, humanitarian action has
transformed over the past decade. To keep up with the
changing world, OCHA not only underwent a restructuring process in 2017 to refocus on its core mandate,
it also produced and launched some ground-breaking
studies and tools, which will improve humanitarian aid
delivery in the coming years.

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

LOOKING FORWARD

39

CHANGING FOR THE BETTER

2017 marked the final year of OCHA’s 20142017 Strategic Plan, which prepared the
organization to respond to persistent global
challenges during that period. The plan had
focused on delivering two mutually reinforcing goals: improving humanitarian action in
the world’s ongoing crises, and increasing the
effectiveness of response efforts by engaging
with new partners and promoting new technologies and ideas.
During 2017, OCHA continued to embark
on its internal reforms. Further to the design phase of its change process and to better deliver coordination services to partners,
OCHA realigned its structure based on its
five core functions: advocacy, coordination,
humanitarian finance, information management and policy.
In mid-2017, OCHA’s blueprint for the
change process was encapsulated in Creating
a Better OCHA, a document that contained
a set of essential decisions related to structures, processes and organizational culture
to be implemented to promote a more unified, nimble and field-focused organization.
OCHA’s change process considered the UN
Secretary-General’s broader UN Secretariat
reform agenda.
A critical part of OCHA’s change process was
a clear affirmation of its vision: “a world that
comes together to help crisis-affected people
rapidly get the humanitarian assistance they
need.” OCHA aims to be more accountable,
agile, decentralized, effective, transparent
and collaborative. OCHA’s new vision and
mission defined the overarching goals to
which the organization aspires, as well as its
role in the humanitarian system. As part of
this transformation, OCHA streamlined its
headquarters with fewer organizational units,
re-evaluated its global footprint, and focused
on functional excellence, transparent and
accountable governance, and enabling and
decentralized administrative services.

Overall, the change process has been about
closing ranks, doing less but better, and
bringing together the best of OCHA to help
humanitarian partners save and protect lives.

OCHA VISION

OCHA MISSION

A world that comes together to help

OCHA coordinates the global

crisis-afected people rapidly get

emergency response to

the humanitarian assistance and

save lives and protect people in

protection they need.

humanitarian crises.
We advocate for efective and
principled humanitarian action
by all, for all.

Actions that
foresee emergencies
OCHA’s Programme Support Branch facilitated the
IASC Emergency Response Preparedness (ERP) approach in the field, which has now been implemented
in 96 per cent of priority countries. ERP actions foresee
emergencies that are likely to occur, and they pre-plan
key components of a response.

2018 Information
Management Roadmap
As part of OCHA’s ongoing efforts to become a more
agile, effective and collaborative organization, the Information Services Branch is leading the development of
the 2018 Information Management Roadmap for OCHA.
Under this strategy, OCHA will begin treating information as a core strategic organizational asset. Information services and data acquisitions will be centrally
managed and financed to provide maximum benefit to
OCHA and the broader humanitarian community, and
OCHA will increase its IM and analysis capacity and
capabilities. Similar plans are being implemented by
OCHA’s five other functional leads.

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

40

LOOKING FORWARD

STRATEGIC PLAN 2018-2021

Today, protracted conflict and violence drive
80 per cent of humanitarian needs, and the
average inter-agency appeal lasts seven years.
To address some of the humanitarian challenges caused by increasing the magnitude
and the impacts of disasters, OCHA developed a four-year Strategic Plan that also
speaks to the shifting humanitarian context.

The Strategic Plan establishes the principles
that will guide OCHA’s work: in addition
to the humanitarian principles of humanity,
neutrality, impartiality and independence,
OCHA will be guided by the principles of
diversity, trust, national and local ownership, accountability to affected people and
gender equality.

The plan presents five strategic objectives
and two management objectives.

The OCHA Monitoring and Evaluation Plan,
included as an annex to the Strategic Plan,
describes the tools that OCHA will use to
measure progress towards the achievement
of its Strategic and Management Objectives,
including the use of key performance indicators, operational and strategic reporting,
and carrying out evaluations.

Each strategic objective is directly related
to one of the five core mandated areas of
OCHA’s work, while the two management
objectives are related to areas where the
organization wants to improve the way it
works, as outlined in the Creating a Better
OCHA document.

Each strategic objective is set around one
of OCHA’s core functions. However, their
achievement requires whole-of-organization
efforts due to interdependence of OCHA’s
core functions.

OCHA’s strategic and management objectives
for the next four years are as follows:

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVES
$

1

2

Transformed
coordination for
a more efﬁcient
and tailored
humanitarian
response.

A more credible,
comprehensive and
evidence-based
situational
analysis.

An effective,
innovative
humanitarian
ﬁnancing system
that meets the
needs of
crisis-affected
people.

MANAGEMENT
OBJECTIVES
1

$

3

$

2

4

International
acceptance of the
centrality of
international
humanitarian and
human rights law,
access and
protection that
results in
meaningful action
for affected people,
especially internally
displaced people.

5

Leadership
to drive
transformative
change for a
more responsive
and adaptable
humanitarian
system.

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

LOOKING FORWARD

41

OCHA ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL AND
EMERGENCY RELIEF COORDINATOR
OFFICE OF THE
UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY-GENERAL FOR
HUMANITARIAN PARTNERSHIPS IN THE MIDDLE EAST
AND CENTRAL ASIA
STRATEGIC
COMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Public Advocacy and Campaigns Section
Media Relations Section

ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
FOR HUMANITARIAN
AFFAIRS AND DEPUTY
EMERGENCY RELIEF
COORDINATOR

Digital Design and Multimedia Unit

COORDINATION
DIVISION

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
STRATEGY, PLANNING, EVALUATION
AND GUIDANCE SECTION
GENDER UNIT
CHANGE IMPLEMENTATION TEAM

HUMANITARIAN
FINANCING & RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION DIVISION

OPERATIONS &
ADVOCACY DIVISION

IASC Secretariat

POOLED FUNDS
MANAGEMENT BRANCH

Asia and the Paciﬁc Section

Humanitarian Leadership
Strengthening Section

Central Emergency Response
Fund Secretariat

System-wide Approaches and
Practices Section

Country-Based Pooled
Funds Section

ASSESSMENT, PLANNING
AND MONITORING
BRANCH

PARTNERSHIPS & RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION BRANCH

INTER-ORGANIZATIONAL
SERVICES

Needs Assessment and
Analysis Section
Response Planning and Monitoring
Section
Monitoring Platforms and
Tools Section

OAD Geneva Section
Central Asia, Pakistan and Afghanistan
& Latin America and the Caribbean
Section
Southern and Eastern Africa Section
(Africa I)
Middle East
and North Africa Section
West and Central
Africa Section (Africa II)

External Relations
and Partnerships Section
Donor Relations Section
Humanitarian Financing Strategy
and Analysis Section

EMERGENCY RESPONSE
SUPPORT BRANCH
Response Service Section
Response Partnerships Section
Readiness and Training Section

EXECUTIVE
OFFICE

INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT BRANCH

Administrative Oversight Section

Information Services Section

Human Resources Section

Digital Services Section

Supply Management and Travel Section

Centre for Humanitarian Data

Budget and Finance Section

Field Information Services Section

POLICY BRANCH
Intergovernmental Policy
Section
Policy Advice and Planning
Section
Policy Analysis and
Innovation Section

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

42

LOOKING FORWARD

Breaking the IDP impasse

Centre for Humanitarian Data

Today, there are over 40 million IDPs due to conflict and
violence, and some 24 million new displacements take
place every year because of disasters. Many IDPs have
lived in displacement for years or even decades.

In 2017, OCHA opened the Centre for Humanitarian
Data in The Hague, in partnership with the Government
of the Netherlands, to increase the use and impact of
data in humanitarian crises. The goal is to move towards more evidence-based and data-driven humanitarian action. The Centre manages OCHA’s Humanitarian
Data Exchange, an open data platform that includes
thousands of data sets shared by hundreds of partners
around the world.

In 2017, OCHA published Breaking the Impasse, which
provides guidance on how to reduce protracted internal
displacement. The study calls on Governments affected by internal displacement to lead efforts to achieve
measurable collective outcomes—together with humanitarian and development actors—that reduce the vulnerabilities of IDPs and host communities in protracted
situations. Governments should adopt frameworks on
internal displacement and ensure that local authorities
can support their people, including IDPs.
The study recommends that donors and international
financial institutions direct multi-year, flexible funding
towards collective outcomes that target the causes of
displacement.
The findings of the study were applied, for example,
in Ukraine to support the development of its strategy
titled “Ensuring Implementation and Protection of
Rights, Freedoms and Legitimate Interests of Internally
Displaced Persons”. The Government adopted the
strategy in December 2017. Efforts are also ongoing in
Cameroon to support the Government in using the new
approach to address protracted internal displacement.

“The Centre is going to help
OCHA move to a world-leading
position in using data to solve
humanitarian problems.”
Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and
Emergency Relief Coordinator Mark Lowcock

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

LOOKING FORWARD

The Centre for Humanitarian
Data is focused on increasing
the use and impact of data in
the humanitarian sector.
The Centre is managed by OCHA. The Centre’s
services are available to humanitarian partners
and OCHA staff in the ﬁeld and at Headquarters
free of charge.

VISION

43

GOAL

The Centre’s vision is to create a
future where all people involved in
a humanitarian response can
access the data they need, when
and how they need it, to make
informed and responsible
decisions.

The Centre’s goal is to increase
the use and impact of data in
crises around the world.

SERVICES
Making humanitarian
data available for rapid
insight, developing and
promoting data policies,
offering data skills
training, and connecting
a network of data
partners.

Data services

Data literacy

Data policy

Network engagement

Managing the
Humanitarian
Data Exchange
(HDX), OCHA’s
open platform for
accessing,
sharing and using
data from
hundreds of
organizations and
dozens of active
crises.

Offering in-person and
remote training
programmes to improve
data expertise.

Leading OCHA’s data
policy work and
offering support to
partners on using
data responsibly.

Creating physical
and virtual spaces
to work together on
data projects.

Connecting skilled data
scientists and design
researchers with
partner organizations
and OCHA ofﬁces to
make data easier to
understand and
communicate.

Safeguarding privacy
and ensuring
sensitive data is
handled
appropriately.

WORK
The Centre has
The Centre is working with
participated in a number
the UN High Commissioner
of events and
for Refugees and the Danish
workshops to share
Refugee Council to create trusted
stories about the value
frameworks for sharing data
of data. In September
between operational partners.
2017, we presented on
The frameworks will help
the Centre at the Social
humanitarians navigate when
Good Summit to share
and how data can be shared
our vision for the world
while protecting the privacy of
we want to live in by
affected people.
2030.

The Centre has
partnered with the
International Federation
of the Red Cross and
Red Crescent Societies
to deliver data skills
workshops to dozens of
humanitarian
organizations in
Senegal, Kenya, and
other locations.

WHY THE CENTRE MATTERS
The Centre’s activities will accelerate the changes required for the
humanitarian system to become data driven. Humanitarian
partners are collecting and sharing more data than at any other
time. This trend will continue as more systems, sensors and people
come online in crisis settings. How the humanitarian community
handles this data revolution to inform decisions and improve lives
will be a key determinant of its future effectiveness.

In Bangladesh, the Centre
is creating efﬁciency by
ensuring all data about
the Rohingya crisis is
available in one place.
HDX includes 50 data sets
on arrivals of displaced
people, access roads and
waterways, locations
of refugee camps, and the
services being provided.

In Somalia, the Centre is
supporting coordination
among 70 humanitarian
agencies distributing cash
and voucher assistance to
millions of people in need
by creating maps and
other data visualizations
that help humanitarians
get aid to those who need
it most.

MEASURING RESULTS
Speed of data
Speed up the
flow of data
from collection
to use.

Connections in
the network
Increase the
number of partners
who are connected
to the Centre.

Increase use
Make sure data is used
better and more often
by the people who are
making critical
decisions in a
humanitarian response.

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

44

Funding
and Finance

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

FUNDING AND FINANCE

BUDGET

OCHA’s programme activities are funded at
approximately 6 per cent from the United
Nations Regular Budget, which is paid from
assessed contributions from UN Member
States. The remaining 94 per cent of programme activities are funded from voluntary
contributions.
Global humanitarian needs quadrupled
over the last decade, and OCHA also grew
its footprint to support affected Member
States and humanitarian partners. OCHA’s
extrabudgetary programme requirements
reached a peak of $334 million in 2015.
Since then, OCHA has gradually reduced
its budget requirements to align with donor
income, thereby safeguarding the financial
sustainability of the organization. OCHA’s
extrabudgetary requirements were reduced to
$295 million in 2016, and to $264.5 million in
2017. In consultation with its donors, OCHA
conducted another downsizing at the end of
2017, leading to a 2018 opening budget of
$241 million. While downsizing the budget,
OCHA sought to minimize the impact on its
capacity to deliver. However, because most
of OCHA’s expenditures relate to staff, OCHA
nevertheless had to reduce the number of
staff positions to 1,962 at the beginning of
2018. In 2015, OCHA had 2,374 positions
—its highest number ever.
The gradual reductions in the budget have
been accompanied by a strategic reallocation
of resources. OCHA is now proportionally
allocating more resources on delivering coordination services where they matter most:
in the field, in support of affected countries
and humanitarian partners. At the same
time, every effort was made to reduce administrative costs and create more efficient
headquarters structures and field presences.

FIELD PROPORTION OF OCHA’S
PROGRAMME BUDGET TREND

2013

64%

FIELD XB BUDGET
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)

65%

31%

HQ XB BUDGET
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)

29%

5%

REGULAR BUDGET

6%

2014

2015

2016

2017

EXTRABUDGETARY BUDGET:
FIELD VS HQ BUDGET (US$)
HQ ACTIVITIES
$80.5M
30%

FIELD ACTIVITIES
$184M
70%

45

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

46

FUNDING AND FINANCE

300
EARMARKING TRENDS - TOTAL (US$)

TOP DONORS - UNEARMARKED AND
EARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)

250
200

$106.4M

UNEARMARKED

150
100
EARMARKED

50
0

2013

2014

2015

$132.3M

2016

EARMARKING TRENDS - PERCENTAGES

2017

EARMARKED
55%

United States

25.9M

Sweden

13.8M

Germany

2.7M

10.8M
15.9M
17.5M

Norway

8.4M

6M

Qatar

10M

0.2M

Netherlands

8.6M

0M

Australia

6.2M

2M

Canada

1.4M

6.5M

Denmark

4.3M

Switzerland

Belgium

UNEARMARKED
45%

44.9M
5.7M

European
Commission

Japan

52%

3.5M

United Kingdom

3.2M

2M

4.5M

0.9M

5.3M

2.4M 2M

Ireland

3.8M 0.4M

Finland

3.8M 0M

48%
M = Million

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

INCOME

In 2017, OCHA received $238.7 million in
voluntary contributions for its extrabudgetary programme activities. In addition,
CBPFs received $833 million1 (of which
$530.9 million was channelled through
OCHA); 2 CERF received $514 million; and
$11.3 million was received for OCHA-managed standby response tools such as national
UNDAC mission accounts held with OCHA,
ProCap and GenCap rosters, and the Centre for Humanitarian Data in The Hague.
As these are pass-through contributions,
they are not counted as income to OCHA’s
extrabudgetary programme. To cover indirect costs, OCHA charges 7 per cent on
programme expenditures and 2 per cent on
pooled-fund expenditures.

1
Income for the CBPFs that have OCHA as Administrative Agent (table on page 52-53) is recorded based on the
exchange rate on the date of the pledge, which may differ from the CBPF Business Intelligence portal, which
records contributions based on the exchange rate when cash was received.
2
Excluding contributions channelled through OCHA to NGOs and non-UN partners via the CHF for Somalia
(US$50,168,674.65), CHF Afghanistan (US$29,971,640.48).

See pages 61-64 for the complete list of earmarked
and unearmarked contributions by donor.

Predictability

OCHA benefits from predictable and stable
income thanks to its strong relationship with
OCHA Donor Support Group members—
who provide 98.5 per cent of programme
income—and multi-year agreements with
16 donors worth $88 million in 2017. New
multi-year agreements were signed in 2017
with eight donors: ECHO, to support needs
assessment from the Enhanced Response
Capacity Funding (2017-2018); Germany,
to support the implementation of OCHA’s
organizational reform (2017-2018); and
unearmarked funding from Iceland (20172019); Ireland (2017-2018); Luxembourg
(2017-2020); Qatar (2017-2020); Switzerland
(2017-2018); and the UK (2017-2020). Existing multi-year agreements with the UK for
OCHA’s operations in Pakistan and Somalia
were extended.

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

FUNDING AND FINANCE

Flexibility

Timeliness

OCHA continues to benefit from high levels
of unearmarked funding. A total of $106.4
million, representing 45 per cent of its
programme income, was received from 30
donors as unearmarked in 2017, the highest
level since 2013. This level of unearmarked
funding is vital for an organization such as
OCHA. Without unearmarked funding, it
would be impossible for OCHA to respond
to sudden-onset emergencies. Also, OCHA
needs to have sufficient levels of flexible
funding to respond impartially to all needs,
including in so-called forgotten emergencies.
As in previous years, the largest contributor
of unearmarked funding was DFID, contributing $25.9 million, about 24 per cent of total
unearmarked funding received. Sweden was
the second largest donor with $13.8 million
in unearmarked funding. A new and important donor to OCHA, Qatar signed a multi-year agreement for $10 million per year,
fully unearmarked, putting it in third place.
In addition to unearmarked funding, OCHA
received $24.5 million in softly earmarked
funding for field offices and for regional operations or crises, such as the Syria crisis and
the response to the call for action for the four
countries at risk of famine. Softly earmarked
contributions give OCHA the flexibility to
allocate funding to any field office or office
located in the region or crisis, based on operational needs.

OCHA benefits from good levels of income
flexible across budget years. Approximately
40 per cent of contributions were expiring
beyond 31 December 2017, meaning that
OCHA was able to carry some funds into
2018 and finance operations seamlessly. In
terms of timeliness of payment, more funding
was received by the end of the third quarter
(84 per cent vs 69 per cent in 2016). Most
payments were received in the third quarter.

100%
75%
3rd QUARTER
50%

2014

2nd QUARTER

2015

2016

In 2017, OCHA received contributions from
a record number of 44 Member States and
the EU, four more than the previous year. In
addition to contributions from 27 members
of the OCHA Donor Support Group, OCHA
received contributions from Andorra, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, China, Greece,
Iceland, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Malta,
Monaco, Peru, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, the
Slovak Republic and Thailand. In addition,
OCHA received contributions from an NGO,
Qatar Charity, and from the private sector.
This is encouraging progress, even if OCHA’s
income remains heavily concentrated on its
top donors. Importantly, the arrival of Qatar
as a top donor contributes to the geographic
diversity of OCHA’s donor base.

OCHA Donor
Support Group

TIMELINESS OF DISBURSEMENT

25%

Diversity

2017

Created in 1998 with seven members, the OCHA Donor
Support Group (ODSG) now includes 28 members, with
the inclusion of Qatar in 2017. The ODSG is the main
forum for interaction between OCHA and key donor
Governments on a range of issues related to policy, programme and finance. The criteria for ODSG membership includes the commitment to provide continued and
substantial financial support to OCHA, and the willingness to provide political support to implement General
Assembly resolution 46/182. In 2017, ODSG members
provided 98.5 per cent ($235 million) of OCHA’s programme income (see pages 61-64 for detailed profiles
of ODSG members).

47

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

48

FUNDING AND FINANCE

EXPENDITURE

CASH OPERATING BALANCES

OCHA’s implementation rate in 2017 was
90 per cent under the extrabudgetary budget,
with a 93 per cent implementation rate in
headquarters and 89 per cent in the field. This
is a higher level of implementation than in
2016, indicating that OCHA is moving towards operating at full capacity.

OCHA finished 2017 with a closing balance
of $122.8 million, which included amounts
available for programming as well as other
items that are not available for programming. A total of $26.3 million in balances
(includes $6 million in pledges) remained
from earmarked and unearmarked projects
to be implemented in 2018. It is of note that
OCHA’s preliminary expenditure imple- balances from unearmarked resources were
mentation rate reached 91 per cent under $0.3 million at the end of 2017, a testament
the Extrabudgetary Administrative Budget, to OCHA’s commitment to utilize donor rewhile preliminary expenditure implementa- sources as efficiently as possible in order to
tion rate for the Regular Budget reached 105 achieve planned results.
per cent approved at $17.0 million, inclusive
of the United Nations Monitoring Mecha- OCHA’s cash operating balance is $72 milnism for Syria.
lion. OCHA makes use of its cash operating
balance to advance funds to projects in anticipation of cash to be received from donors
during the year. This financing model allows
OCHA to maintain smooth monthly expendDIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES (US$)
iture levels even when cash flows during the
year
are typically uneven.
Field-Based
152.1M 64%

Humanitarian Coordination

Direct HQ Support
for Field Coordination

39M 16%

Executive Direction
and Management

17.2M 7%

Communication and
Information Management

16.8M 7%

Partnerships
Policy and Normative
Development
Programme
Common Cost
Humanitarian
Financing Support

OTHER

(NON-PROGRAMMABLE)

5.8M 2%
5M 2%
2.1M 1%
0M 0%

$21.9M
17%

OPERATIONAL
CASH
$72M
59%

AFB1

(UNSPENT
FROM
ASHI2)

$2.6M
2%

DIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIVITIES (US$)
Administrative
activities

CLOSING BALANCE
BREAKDOWN (US$)

17.4M 67%

EARMARKED &
UNEARMARKED
FUNDS
CARRY-OVER

Humanitarian
Financing Support

4.8M 19%

$26.3M
21%

Communication and
Information Management

3.6M 14%

1

AFB: Administration Field Budget

2

ASHI: After-Service Health Insurance

FUNDS THAT CAN
BE UTILIZED IN 2018

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

MAKING A DIFFERENCE

Annexes
Acronyms and abbreviations
Financial tables and charts

49

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

50

ANNEXES

Acronyms and abbreviations

ASG

Assistant Secretary-General

IMPACT

Information Management Preparedness and Coordination Training

CAR

Central African Republic

INFORM

Index for Risk Management

CBPF

Country-Based Pooled Funds

INGO

International Non-Governmental Organization

CERF

Central Emergency Response Fund

ISIL

Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant

CPP

Country Preparedness Package

L3

Level 3

DHC

Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator

NGCA

Non-Government-Controlled Area

DRC

Democratic Republic of the Congo

NGO

Non-Governmental Organization

ECHO

European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations

OCHA

United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs

ERC

Emergency Relief Coordinator

ODSG

OCHA Donor Support Group

ERP

Emergency Response Preparedness

PSEA

Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse

EU

European Union

PACT

Platform for Action, Commitments and Transformations

FATA

Federally Administered Tribal Areas

PROCAP

Protection Standby Capacity

FTS

Financial Tracking Service

PSNP

Productive Safety Net Programme

GA

General Assembly

RC

Resident Coordinator

GBV

Gender-based violence

ROAP

Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific

GCCG

Global Cluster Coordinators Group

ROCCA

Regional Office for Central Asia and the Caucasus

GHO

Global Humanitarian Overview

ROLAC

Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean

GHPF

Global Humanitarian Policy Forum

ROMENA

Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa

HAT

Humanitarian Advisory Team

ROSEA

Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa

HC

Humanitarian Coordinator

ROWCA

Regional Office for West and Central Africa

HCT

Humanitarian Country Team

RRM

Rapid Response Mechanism

HNO

Humanitarian Needs Overview

SPCF

Strategic Partnership Cooperation Framework

HPC

Humanitarian Programme Cycle

UNDAC

United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination

HRP

Humanitarian Response Plan

UNDP

United Nations Development Programme

IASC

Inter-Agency Standing Committee

UNICEF

United Nations Children's Fund

ICCG

Inter-Cluster Coordination Group

USG

Under-Secretary-General

IDP

Internally Displaced Person

WEF

World Economic Forum

IM

Information Management

WFP

World Food Programme

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

ANNEXES

51

Financial tables and charts

2015 DONOR INCOME1

2016 DONOR INCOME

Donor
United Kingdom

US$
43,209,174

Donor

2017 DONOR INCOME
US$

United States2

49,253,424

Donor

US$

United States

48,383,161
31,595,453

United States

39,800,462

United Kingdom

42,373,626

United Kingdom

Sweden

26,823,800

Sweden

36,631,502

Sweden

24,582,361

European Commission

19,024,524

European Commission3

21,261,019

Germany

18,578,297
17,461,466

Norway

13,443,344

Germany

15,249,535

European Commission

Australia

9,360,949

Norway

14,875,779

Norway

14,390,097

Japan

8,776,081

Switzerland

9,563,712

Qatar

10,220,000

Netherlands

8,745,557

Japan

8,678,075

Netherlands

8,572,535

Switzerland

8,530,123

Belgium

8,290,546

Australia

8,177,376

Germany

8,168,310

Australia

7,337,360

Canada

7,947,516

Saudi Arabia

8,000,000

Canada

5,969,019

Denmark

7,536,936

Canada

4,926,560

Netherlands

5,894,868

Switzerland

6,479,407

Denmark

4,811,949

Ireland

5,472,489

Japan

6,192,981

New Zealand

4,081,633

Denmark

4,460,303

Belgium

4,388,651

Finland

3,791,983

Finland

3,791,983

Ireland

4,244,473

Belgium

3,673,967

New Zealand

3,462,604

Finland

3,791,983

Ireland

2,985,197

Spain

1,387,347

New Zealand

3,462,604

Kuwait

2,500,000

Korea, Republic of

1,350,000

Korea, Republic of

2,100,000

Korea, Republic of

1,500,000

France

1,132,503

Spain

1,085,776

United Arab Emirates

1,355,975

Russian Federation

850,000

France

1,085,776

France

1,122,334

Luxembourg

809,740

Malaysia

1,000,000

Thailand

1,000,000

Austria

653,623

Russian Federation

Turkey

1,000,000

Poland

558,645

Luxembourg

880,236

Russian Federation

1,000,000

Turkey

500,000

United Arab Emirates

769,975

Morocco

1,000,000

Estonia

319,037

Austria

637,030

Malta

193,039

Estonia

564,444

980,000

Luxembourg

874,094

Estonia

797,294

Kazakhstan

150,000

Turkey

500,000

Spain

549,451

Thailand

100,000

Poland

492,854

Austria

536,462

Georgia

100,000

Greece

360,577

Azerbaijan

500,000

Iceland

100,000

Slovakia

344,649

Poland

450,956

Romania

55,188

Kuwait

214,449

Trinidad and Tobago

250,000

Bulgaria

53,079

Iceland

214,335

South Africa

118,362

Singapore

50,000

Thailand

150,739

Iceland

100,000

Czech Republic

39,246

Kazakhstan

150,000

Czech Republic

82,918

China

30,000

Malta

134,651

Malaysia

40,000

Monaco

27,933

Bulgaria

114,063

Singapore

40,000

United Arab Emirates

25,000

Argentina

50,000

China

30,000

Hungary

22,124

Azerbaijan

50,000

Monaco

27,199

Philippines

20,000

China

30,000

Andorra

16,484

Kuwait

Afghanistan
Subtotal 1
Multi-Donor Funds

1,000
233,046,144
8,883,954

UN and Other Agencies

15,000

Private Donations
Subtotal 2
TOTAL 2015

132,700
9,031,654

Subtotal 1
Multi-Donor Funds
UN and Other Agencies
Private Donations
Subtotal 2
TOTAL 2016

242,077,798

5,000
251,097,347
11,186,824
150,212
100,214
11,437,249
262,534,597

Monaco

26,151

Saudi Arabia

20,000

Singapore

20,000

Andorra

15,924

Peru
Subtotal 1
Multi-Donor Funds
UN and Other Agencies
Private Donations

575,000
728,218

Totals include paid and pledged contributions.
1
Starting 2015, income data includes future pledges (except multi-year pledges), hence, 2015 donor income might have changed compared to what was published previously.
Exclude pledge of ($66,576) was cancelled in 2017.

3

Total includes funding to OCHA office in Sudan (EUR2M) which is meant for 2017.

7,650
145,568

Subtotal 2
TOTAL 2017

2

10,319
238,007,241

238,735,459

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

52

ANNEXES

COUNTRY-BASED POOLED FUNDS: CONTRIBUTIONS BY DONOR AND FUND
Recipient
Donor
United Kingdom

Afghanistan

CAR2

Colombia

DRC3

Ethiopia

Iraq

16,076,280

7,134,625

-

30,731,350

21,543,375

21,079,210

-

5,772,800

-

8,220,700

18,497,612

45,700,969

Germany

Jordan

Lebanon

Myanmar

2,857,143

-

3,639,010

2,369,668

3,554,502

-

Sweden

8,363,695

2,891,591

564,717

17,014,353

5,383,733

2,032,979

1,744,364

1,744,364

1,242,376

Belgium

-

1,796,400

-

3,592,800

-

6,757,451

1,706,485

1,706,485

-

Netherlands

-

2,954,500

-

3,519,900

-

6,538,102

-

-

-

Norway

2,109,294

-

-

2,782,623

1,223,391

-

-

-

-

Ireland

-

3,588,770

-

3,881,464

3,678,371

2,123,142

1,590,668

1,590,668

-

United States

-

-

-

-

29,500,000

-

-

-

-

Denmark

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,184,713

-

Australia

6,103,185

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,237,136

Switzerland

199,965

1,558,617

205,761

-

2,062,090

-

-

-

197,239

5,899,513

-

-

-

500,000

-

-

-

-

Canada

-

377,675

-

-

-

373,692

-

-

375,940

France

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

592,417

-

Korea, Republic of

Spain

-

-

542,888

-

-

-

-

-

-

Luxembourg

-

266,125

-

266,125

-

-

-

-

265,111

Jersey

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Italy

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Iceland

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

200,000

-

Turkey

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Malta

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Arab Gulf Programme, AGFUND

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Azerbaijan

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Cyprus

-

-

-

-

-

11,848

-

-

-

Lithuania

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Sri Lanka

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Private Donations 1
GRAND TOTAL (US$)

-

-

471

-

951

258

-

78

2,213

38,751,932

26,341,102

1,313,837

70,009,315

82,389,522

84,617,653

10,268,327

12,573,227

7,959,026

Total includes paid and pledged contributions.
Excludes: Contributions channelled through OCHA to NGOs and non-UN partners via the CHF for Somalia ($50,168,674.65), CHF Afghanistan ($29,971,640.48).
The Administrative Agent function for the six CBPF funds (Afghanistan, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sudan, South Sudan and Somalia) is performed by the UNDP
Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office.
1

Includes funds received for ERF-General ($1,195.68), ERF-Haiti ($862.88) and ERF-Kenya ($9.75), which were deposited in the ERF Nigeria M Grant as these funds are no longer operational.

2

Central African Republic

3

Democratic Republic of the Congo

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

ANNEXES

Nigeria

4

oPt4

Pakistan

-

-

3,076,923

10,047,192

2,209,385

-

11,844,786

1,731,442

4,517,732

2,275,313

2,730,375

-

Somalia

South Sudan

Sudan

Syria

4,026,000

22,383,300

20,858,450

1,428,571

12,686,285

13,147,250

1,082,100

2,171,553

8,400,333

8,284,458

7,705,916

4,220,245

-

4,790,400

-

8,248,009

Turkey

53

Yemen

TOTAL

14,534,161

51,674,943

221,043,342

11,848,341

66,393,345

203,701,702

4,220,245

8,674,833

100,582,161

8,248,009

4,550,626

46,402,352

4,807,692

-

-

5,429,600

-

-

5,336,179

5,937,141

8,239,780

42,762,895

2,957,889

499,651

-

4,497,184

9,984,876

1,254,658

5,809,783

4,736,212

5,065,335

40,920,897

2,275,313

355,450

-

3,194,392

3,194,392

3,487,086

-

1,706,485

5,727,327

36,393,528

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,000,000

34,500,000

4,847,310

-

-

3,171,583

4,757,374

-

4,777,070

1,592,357

9,591,893

31,922,299

-

-

-

7,355,825

7,684,563

-

-

-

-

23,380,710

1,740,189

-

-

2,773,232

1,734,706

1,166,182

1,007,049

1,007,049

3,476,152

17,128,231

1,000,000

-

-

300,000

1,000,000

700,000

-

1,000,000

1,500,000

11,899,513

801,925

-

-

857,327

934,629

-

-

-

4,639,685

8,360,872

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,503,734

-

6,096,151

580,720

760,043

-

-

-

-

1,085,776

-

696,864

3,666,292

266,809

-

-

-

266,125

-

265,111

-

-

1,595,407

-

-

-

-

-

-

646,831

-

-

646,831

-

588,235

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

588,235

-

150,000

-

-

-

-

220,000

-

-

570,000

-

500,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

500,000

21,345

34,130

-

-

-

-

-

-

113,766

169,240

25,000

-

-

25,000

24,965

-

-

-

25,000

99,965

12,500

-

-

12,500

12,500

-

-

-

12,500

50,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

11,198

23,047

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

21,231

21,231

1,250

-

-

1,250

1,250

-

-

-

1,250

5,000

7,752

4,287

887

-

-

-

98,422

-

86,532

201,851

43,512,984

9,562,999

7,595,542

52,730,511

78,200,788

36,254,392

35,314,600

60,333,735

175,502,261

833,231,753

occupied Palestinian territory

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

54

ANNEXES

OCHA BUDGET AND
EXPENDITURE IN 2017 (US$)
REGULAR BUDGET ACTIVITIES

Administrative Field Budget

Mandated Programme Activities
Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

13,950,800

17,033,800

17,902,234

105%

-

-

-

-

7,158,203
26,154,715
14,945,145
28,826,051

8,402,508
26,040,810
15,052,145
30,007,755

7,327,518
23,567,909
13,143,647
29,243,353

87%
91%
87%
97%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES
HEADQUARTERS
Executive Management
Corporate Programme Division
Coordination and Response Division
OCHA Geneva
ASGHP Office of the ASG for Humanitarian Partnerships
for the Middle East and Central Asia

932,710

1,045,328

977,997

94%

78,016,824

80,548,546

74,260,424

92%

3,672,257
1,260,451
1,727,530
684,276

2,792,857
893,484
1,282,293
617,080

2,346,555
753,188
1,063,901
529,466

84%
84%
83%
86%

-

-

-

-

23,061,026

22,849,770

19,591,645

86%

2,511,888

2,428,146

2,216,701

91%

3,497,496
5,162,595
1,840,979
5,322,311
6,080,575
1,157,070
155,414,596
80,975,857
2,074,732
806,659
5,469,615
8,615,422
10,621,753
9,824,725
1,484,886
8,281,253
4,693,886
13,337,192
4,675,180
3,313,086
7,777,468
6,993,131
4,304,985
969,426
1,718,720
12,287,461
8,848,141
3,439,320
3,375,723
3,375,723
4,146,777
2,111,341
2,035,436
47,635,647
9,705,774
6,080,676
9,363,090
1,606,797
7,430,873
4,008,495
2,064,292
2,561,169
4,814,481

3,734,689
5,019,757
1,810,608
5,322,311
5,796,668
1,165,737
158,394,832
81,229,237
2,387,449
806,659
4,662,768
9,374,821
10,961,690
9,824,725
1,386,500
8,183,890
4,617,880
13,107,268
4,597,985
3,377,643
7,939,959
8,108,244
4,314,305
1,012,949
1,923,059
857,931
12,543,560
8,995,678
3,547,882
3,378,098
3,378,098
4,146,777
2,111,341
2,035,436
48,988,916
9,767,817
6,219,007
11,194,174
1,474,480
7,441,166
3,827,288
2,064,292
2,365,236
4,635,456

3,366,374
4,829,854
1,235,174
4,692,596
4,640,340
827,307
141,678,141
73,739,695
2,372,358
640,791
3,716,995
9,475,717
10,366,840
8,789,612
1,113,990
7,869,089
4,081,804
12,000,632
4,133,433
2,366,730
6,811,704
6,965,699
4,080,057
936,002
1,765,288
184,353
12,291,812
8,793,391
3,498,421
2,636,696
2,636,696
3,534,331
1,939,184
1,595,147
42,509,908
8,126,869
5,698,027
10,539,815
1,377,759
6,969,221
2,921,189
1,586,068
1,743,604
3,547,356

90%
96%
68%
88%
80%
71%
89%
91%
99%
79%
80%
101%
95%
89%
80%
96%
88%
92%
90%
70%
86%
86%
95%
92%
92%
21%
98%
98%
99%
78%
78%
85%
92%
78%
87%
83%
92%
94%
93%
94%
76%
77%
74%
77%

399,606
584,384
271,746
668,091
521,614
66,447
12,147,089
6,821,126
207,841
53,787
374,954
747,331
821,323
830,799
77,130
809,023
371,949
1,044,155
350,827
278,641
853,366
491,499
311,495
40,626
139,378
984,574
639,085
345,489
262,206
262,206
290,794
99,234
191,560
3,296,890
584,515
367,481
794,465
105,031
473,359
378,202
94,913
498,924

399,606
616,484
271,746
552,249
521,614
66,447
12,229,665
6,892,028
181,699
59,783
374,954
703,097
916,553
892,859
77,130
809,023
414,749
1,044,155
350,827
278,641
788,558
507,549
311,495
56,676
139,378
970,420
639,085
331,335
262,206
262,206
290,794
99,234
191,560
3,306,668
584,515
381,635
794,465
100,655
473,359
378,202
94,913
498,924

367,592
607,354
223,346
472,573
496,956
48,880
9,772,255
5,763,471
58,100
56,259
295,234
612,011
916,565
890,439
45,710
639,026
383,188
872,351
301,050
252,050
441,489
440,441
266,130
54,704
119,607
650,987
484,381
166,606
87,161
87,161
220,012
98,451
121,562
2,610,184
433,947
368,552
616,723
413,311
266,045
67,124
444,482

92%
99%
82%
86%
95%
74%
80%
84%
32%
94%
79%
87%
100%
100%
59%
79%
92%
84%
86%
90%
56%
87%
85%
97%
86%
67%
76%
50%
33%
33%
76%
99%
63%
79%
74%
97%
78%
0%
87%
70%
71%
89%

Total field

182,147,879

184,037,459

163,616,341

89%

14,658,977

14,657,811

11,988,956

82%

Total Extrabudgetary Activities

260,164,703

264,586,005

237,876,765

90%

14,658,977

14,657,811

11,988,956

82%

Total Headquarters
FIELD
Liaison Offices
AU Liaison Office
Gulf Liaison Office
Brussels Liaison Office
Regional Offices
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for West and Central Africa
Regional Office for the Caucasus and Central Asia
country offices
Africa
Cameroon
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
Burundi
Central African Republic
Chad
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
Mali
Niger
Nigeria
Asia and the Pacific
Myanmar
Office of the Pacific Islands
Philippines
Rohingya Refugee Crisis
Central Asia, Pakistan and Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Pakistan
Europe
Ukraine
Latin America & the Caribbean
Colombia
Haiti
Middle East and North Africa
Iraq
occupied Palestinian territory
Yemen
Libya
Syria Office
Syria OCHA Operation in Turkey
Syria OCHA Operation in Jordan
Syria OCHA Operation in Lebanon
Syria RHC1 Office

Regional Humanitarian Coordinator’s Office for the Syria Crisis
Central African Republic
3
Democratic Republic of the Congo

1

2

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

55

ANNEXES

ALLOCATION OF UNEARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS IN 20171

Extrabudgetary Administrative Activities
Original
-

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

-

-

-

HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITIES
LIAISON OFFICES
REGIONAL OFFICES

20,199,001
29,570,945
8,230,356
-

20,019,980
31,133,836
8,409,377
-

17,469,197
28,969,031
8,392,211
-

87%
93%
100%
-

-

-

-

-

28,429,357

28,429,357

25,861,408

91%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

28,429,357

28,429,357

25,861,408

91%

56,396,810
3,005,331
Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific

166,975

Regional Office for Latin America and
the Caribbean

1,377,428

Regional Office for Eastern and Southern Africa

2,377,602

Regional Office for the Caucasus and
Central Asia
Regional Office for the Middle East and
North Africa

356,031
669,099

Regional Office for West and Central Africa

1,836,656

Regional Offices Total
AFRICA

6,783,791
Central African Republic

4,808,145

Chad

1,357,647

Cameroon

93,042

Democratic Republic of the Congo

6,059,565

Burundi

-

Eritrea

483,944

Ethiopia

-

Mali

2,453,906

Niger

1,155,916

Nigeria

468,137

Somalia

175,066

South Sudan

3,925,352

Sudan

5,656,578

Africa Total
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

26,637,298
Myanmar

1,436,323

Office of the Pacific Islands

-

Philippines

322,424

Asia and the Pacific Total
LATIN AMERICA AND THE
CARIBBEAN

1,758,747
Colombia

900,514

Haiti

389,678

Latin America and the
Caribbean Total
EUROPE

1,290,192
Ukraine

810,000

Europe total

810,000

MIDDLE EAST, NORTHERN &
Afghanistan
CENTRAL ASIA

5,934,337

Iraq

-

Libya
oPt

565,582
1,983,793

2

Pakistan
Syria

-

Yemen

-

Middle East, Northern &
Central Asia Total

9,435,795

TOTAL FIELD ACTIVITIES

49,721,154

GRAND TOTAL
1

952,083

106,117,964

Including $405,100 allocation to cover HQ future expenses and reimbursement of field IOV charges.

2

occupied Palestinian territorry

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

56

ANNEXES

CBPF MANAGEMENT UNITS
Afghanistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
CAR - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

Final

Expenditure

18,287,646
1,621,510

19,892,847
1,621,510

14,084,024
1,494,225

Expend. Rate

Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

71%
92%

-

-

-

-

961,457

961,457

809,206

84%

-

-

-

-

1,981,445
1,569,135
1,386,078
1,428,321

1,484,444
1,280,688
1,314,681
844,123

75%
82%
95%
59%

-

-

-

-

100,000
863,411
1,919,015
1,915,447
907,517
220,584
406,495
2,151,774
294,532
338,120
387,167

100,000
863,411
1,919,015
2,076,178
907,517
220,584
508,175
2,151,774
294,532
338,120
1,178,428
387,167

97,726
540,750
1,331,765
978,335
787,131
202,294
274,329
1,012,948
270,778
279,296
722,620
358,684

98%
63%
69%
47%
87%
92%
54%
47%
92%
83%
61%
93%

-

-

-

-

278,452,349

284,478,852

251,960,789

89%

14,658,977

14,657,811

11,988,956

82%

-

-

-1,502,296

-

-

-

-

-

278,452,349

284,478,852

250,458,494

88%

14,658,977

14,657,811

11,988,956

82%

292,403,149 301,512,652 268,360,728

89%

14,658,977

14,657,811

11,988,956

82%

Ethiopia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
Yemen - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
Turkey - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
Syria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
Pakistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
Lebanon - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
Iraq - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
oPt - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
Myanmar - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
Nigeria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2
Jordan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2

Total Extrabudgetary Activities including CBPF
Dormant accounts and others

Total Extrabudgetary Activities including CBPF and
Dormant
TOTAL OCHA ACTIVITIES
(REGULAR BUDGET AND EXTRABUDGETARY)

Original

2,162,633
1,486,651
1,123,012
1,428,321

DRC - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Somalia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
South Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Colombia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit2

1

Administrative Field Budget

Mandated Programme Activities

...OCHA BUDGET AND
EXPENDITURE IN 2017 (US$)

occupied Palestinian territory
Out of OCHA Budget

2

SPECIALLYDESIGNATED
CONTRIBUTIONS BY
ACTIVITY (US$)

2017 Donor Contributions

CBPF*

530,943,713

ProCap
and
GenCap
Rosters

4,709,665

UNDAC

762,106

Other SDCs GRAND TOTAL

5,790,849

542,206,333

Excludes the six CBPFs for which Administrative Agent functions are performed by the UNDP Multi-Partner
Trust Fund Office (Afghanistan, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Somalia, South Sudan,
and Sudan). Further details and breakdown of this amount are provided in the table on pages 52-53.

*

Specially designated
contributions
Specially designated contributions (SDCs) are
earmarked by donors for humanitarian projects
implemented by third parties (UN partners and
NGOs). OCHA channels income for such activities in the form of grants. SDC activities are not
included in OCHA’s budget, and income towards
SDCs is not counted in the OCHA total donor
income for OCHA’s activities.
In 2017, most of the SDC income received (98 per
cent) was for CBPFS channelled through OCHA
in Colombia, Ethiopia, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon,
Myanmar, Nigeria, oPt, Pakistan, Syria, Turkey and Yemen.

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

ANNEXES

SPECIALLY DESIGNATED CONTRIBUTIONS
BY DONOR (US$)

Extrabudgetary Administrative Activities
Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

Donor

-

-

-

-

-

-

28,429,357

28,429,357

-

28,429,357

28,429,357

25,861,408

-

28,429,357

28,429,357

-

25,769,270

25,769,270

US$

Germany

162,810,340

United Kingdom

119,915,207

Sweden

48,704,200

Netherlands

36,464,450

Belgium

36,222,752

United States

35,775,000

Denmark

23,993,343

Norway

21,426,902

Ireland

19,512,001

Switzerland

10,224,593

Canada

6,497,521

France

6,096,151

Korea, Republic of

4,000,000

Spain

3,666,292

Australia

2,795,172

Luxembourg

91%

-92,138

57

-

91%

91%

797,032

Jersey

646,831

Italy

588,235

Iceland

570,000

Turkey

500,000

City of The Hague

235,294

Malta

169,240

China

50,000

Argentina

50,000

Arab Gulf Programme, AGFUND

50,000

Estonia

45,087

Azerbaijan

25,000

Cyprus

23,047

Lithuania

21,231

Russian Federation

20,000

Japan

16,162

Colombia

10,000

Sri Lanka

2,500

Private Donations*

201,851

UN and Other Agencies
GRAND TOTAL

80,900
542,206,333

Total includes paid and pledged contributions.
Excludes: Contributions channelled through OCHA to NGOs and non-UN partners via the CHF
for Somalia ($50,168,674.65), CHF Afghanistan ($29,971,640.48).
*

Funds received through United Nations Foundations (UNF).

OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)
Entity

Description

FAO

Technical assistance/expert services

Total

Government of Kazakistan through UNDP

Office space

14,570.00

Government of Tajikistan through UNDP

Office space

568.00

Hyogo Pref.

Office space

44,187.33

131,521.16

International Humanitarian City

Office space

McKinsey and Company

Technical assistance/expert services

Swiss Agency for Development and
Cooperation (SDC)

Other services in-kind: (Financial support for training)

UNHCR

Technical assistance/expert services

UNICEF

Technical assistance/expert services

166,800.00

WFP

Technical assistance/expert services

100,685.24

TOTAL

60,000.00
100,000.00
25,000.00
148,530.27

791,862.00

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

58

ANNEXES

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS - BREAKDOWN OF DONOR EARMARKING (US$)
OCHA Activities

Office

UNEARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS
EARMARKED AND
SOFTLY EARMARKED1
CONTRIBUTIONS*
HEADQUARTERS
ACTIVITIES

United States

United
Kingdom

Sweden

Germany

European
Commission

Norway

Qatar

Netherlands

Australia

3,500,000

25,873,221

13,828,963

2,685,285

-

8,397,235

10,000,000

8,572,535

6,175,595

44,883,161

5,722,232

10,753,397

15,893,012

17,461,466

5,992,862

220,000

-

2,001,781

10,582,952

-

223,539

1,715,738

961,061

-

220,000

-

148,810

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

850,000

-

650,427

-

796,359

234,479

-

-

1,089,404

LIAISON OFFICES
REGIONAL OFFICES

Regional Office for Asia
and the Pacific1
Regional Office for Eastern
and Southern Africa
Regional Office for Latin
America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for the
Caucasus and Central Asia
Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for West
and Central Africa

Regional Offices Total
AFRICA

Central African Republic

1,000,000

-

223,539

-

212,314

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

298,588

-

-

-

-

-

-

223,539

-

-

-

-

-

-

500,000

-

447,077

-

-

421,503

-

-

-

3,350,000

-

1,544,581

-

1,307,262

655,982

-

-

1,089,404

1,000,000

-

447,077

-

651,466

364,476

-

-

-

-

-

447,077

-

537,057

295,789

-

-

-

Chad
Cameroon

950,000

-

447,077

-

640,342

80,532

-

-

-

1,400,000

-

782,385

-

2,774,661

364,476

-

-

-

500,000

-

111,769

-

268,528

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,000,000

-

223,539

1,159,147

530,786

-

-

-

-

500,000

-

447,077

568,828

318,471

-

-

-

-

-

-

447,077

-

-

279,947

-

-

-

2,000,000

-

447,077

1,159,147

1,334,045

691,669

-

-

-

Somalia

2,500,209

1,315,471

447,077

1,749,466

1,061,571

242,984

-

-

391,543

South Sudan

2,500,000

-

558,847

-

1,061,571

592,979

-

-

-

Sudan

1,550,000

-

223,539

-

167,150

-

-

-

-

14,900,209

1,315,471

5,029,619

4,636,588

9,345,648

2,912,852

-

-

391,543

Democratic
Republic of Congo
Burundi
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Mali
Niger
Nigeria

Africa Total
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC Myanmar

Asia and the
Pacific Total
LATIN AMERICA AND
THE CARIBBEAN

400,000

-

379,041

-

426,894

129,996

-

-

-

Office of the
Pacific Islands

500,000

-

111,769

-

-

-

-

-

372,024

Philippines

450,000

-

111,769

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,350,000

-

602,580

-

426,894

129,996

-

-

372,024

Colombia

400,000

-

111,769

-

102,748

-

-

-

-

Haiti

200,000

-

111,769

-

-

-

-

-

-

600,000

-

223,539

-

102,748

-

-

-

-

300,000

-

167,654

-

170,648

-

-

-

-

300,000

-

167,654

-

170,648

-

-

-

-

200,000

-

391,193

284,414

542,888

258,598

-

-

-

2,000,000

-

335,308

3,436,753

841,477

-

-

-

-

-

-

111,769

-

240,385

-

-

-

-

Latin America and the
Caribbean Total
EUROPE

Ukraine

Europe total
MIDDLE EAST, NORTHERN
Afghanistan
& CENTRAL ASIA
Iraq
Libya
oPt

-

-

223,539

568,828

849,257

-

-

-

-

Pakistan

1,100,000

878,477

223,539

-

391,937

-

-

-

-

Syria2

5,000,000

2,857,143

1,117,693

1,161,440

1,161,440

1,436,663

-

-

-

Yemen

5,500,000

671,141

558,847

4,089,250

1,119,821

598,771

-

-

-

Middle East, Northern
& Central Asia Total
GRAND TOTAL

*

occupied Palestinian territory

*

13,800,000
48,383,161

4,406,761
31,595,453

2,961,887
24,582,361

9,540,686
18,578,297

5,147,205
17,461,466

2,294,032
14,390,097

10,220,000

8,572,535

8,177,376

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

59

ANNEXES

Korea,
Republic of

Spain

France

Other
Donors

GRAND TOTAL

3,462,604

1,000,000

-

1,085,776

3,176,441

106,422,357

-

-

1,100,000

1,085,776

-

5,282,170

132,313,103

-

-

-

-

-

-

832,625

15,747,469

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

14,449

4,283,569

Canada

Denmark

Switzerland

Japan

Belgium

Ireland

Finland New Zealand

1,431,639

4,305,396

2,002,002

856,081

2,437,703

3,839,897

3,791,983

6,515,877

3,231,540

4,477,405

5,336,900

1,950,948

404,576

185,460

-

877,284

-

-

-

-

-

-

287,732

40,717

-

320,000

77,770

-

-

-

-

56,883

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,570,505

120,677

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

346,306

1,466,983

65,056

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

100,000

463,644

26,989

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

250,527

88,996

-

-

-

209,030

-

-

-

-

-

-

30,048

1,696,654

667,219

40,717

-

320,000

209,030

56,883

-

-

-

-

-

490,803

9,731,883

328,550

250,929

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,042,498

69,071

142,672

-

-

139,353

-

-

-

700,000

217,155

-

-

2,548,175

104,684

28,599

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,251,233

499,108

493,618

-

-

209,030

-

-

-

-

217,155

-

-

6,740,432

21,710

10,826

-

-

55,741

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

968,575

11,822

36,516

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

48,338

79,926

-

500,501

-

-

130,537

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,624,435

68,327

127,807

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,030,511

48,996

126,515

-

-

222,965

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,125,501

379,777

114,881

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

25,000

6,151,596

311,822

155,114

997,518

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

25,000

9,197,774

415,465

208,919

500,501

502,000

278,707

-

-

-

-

-

-

25,000

6,643,988

143,569

361,125

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,445,382

2,482,825

2,057,521

1,998,519

502,000

905,797

130,537

-

-

700,000

434,311

-

75,000

47,818,440

240,669

152,367

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

58,072

1,787,040

54,126

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,037,920

95,911

63,338

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

217,155

-

-

938,174

390,706

215,705

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

217,155

-

58,072

3,763,133

184,081

53,644

250,250

-

-

-

-

-

-

217,155

-

-

1,319,647

181,449

79,334

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

10,319

582,871

365,530

132,978

250,250

-

-

-

-

-

-

217,155

-

10,319

1,902,518

-

-

250,250

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

81,967

970,520

-

-

250,250

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

81,967

970,520

-

352,399

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

60,096

2,089,589

373,692

-

-

751,725

278,707

-

-

-

300,000

-

-

432,446

8,750,108

-

54,451

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

406,605

557,621

131,362

500,501

-

278,707

217,155

-

-

-

217,155

-

-

3,544,124

-

100,339

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,694,293

1,121,076

71,579

600,601

3,658,375

-

-

-

-

100,000

-

-

2,607,030

20,893,039

371,747

74,487

-

104,800

278,707

-

-

-

-

-

-

633,812

14,001,383

2,424,136

784,618

1,101,101

4,514,900

836,120

217,155

-

-

400,000

217,155

-

3,733,384

52,379,140

7,947,516

7,536,936

6,479,407

6,192,981

4,388,651

4,244,473

3,791,983

3,462,604

2,100,000

1,085,776

1,085,776

8,458,611

238,735,459

Totals include paid and pledged contributions.
1
Softly earmarked funding includes funding to field operations (Denmark’s one-off investment, Spain) and regional/crisis funding covering more than one operation (Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, EC,
Estonia, Germany, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Norway, Sweden, UK, US).
1

Total includes funding to Rohingya Refugee Crisis.

2

Total for Syria includes funding to the following offices: Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, as well as funding to the Syria RHC.

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

60

ANNEXES

OCHA FINANCIAL STATUS AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2017 (US$)

OCHA-Mandated Programme and
Administrative Activities

Programme
Activities (a)

Administrative
Field budget (b)

CBPF Management
Units ©

Total Trust fund excluding
(a+b+c) CBPF grants-out

Administrative
Activities

Regular Budget

GRAND TOTAL

Opening Balance - 1 Jan 2017

98,754,398

5,551,507

7,183,194

111,489,099

-

-

111,489,099

2017 Donor Contributions for
Programme Activities1

238,735,459

-

7,418,746

246,154,206

-

17,033,800

263,188,006

Available Funds

337,489,857

5,551,507

14,601,941

357,643,304

-

17,033,800

374,677,104

Transfer of Programme Support
Charges (PSC)2

-16,291,746

-784,325

-938,089

-18,014,160

28,884,627

-

10,870,467

Direct Expenditure3

-220,082,724

-11,204,632

-13,145,935

-244,433,290

-25,769,270

-17,902,234

-288,104,794

Total Expenditure Charged against4

-236,374,470

-11,988,956

-14,084,024

-262,447,450

-25,769,270

-17,902,234

-306,118,954

101,115,387

-6,437,450

517,917

95,195,854

3,115,358

-868,434

97,442,778

11,932,307

9,018,909

6,688,644

27,639,860

-

-

27,639,860

113,047,694

2,581,459

7,206,561

122,835,714

3,115,358

-868,434

125,082,638

Increase / (Decrease) in opening balance

14,293,296

-2,970,048

23,367

11,346,616

-

-

11,346,616

AVAILABLE BALANCE FOR SPENDING

113,047,694

2,581,459

7,206,561

122,835,714

3,115,358

Net Available Funds before Other Income,
adjustments, transfers, refunds
Other income, adjustments,
transfers, refunds
Closing Balance5

1

-868,434

125,082,638

For programme activities, includes paid contributions and unpaid pledges $6.3 M.

2

Transfer of PSC for Administrative Activities, includes PSC levied from programme activities, CBPFs, and Specially Designated Contributions.

3

Includes disbursements and unliquidated obligations as at 31 December 2017.

For programme activities, expenditure charged against budget is the direct programme expenditure plus programme support transfers. For administrative and regular budget activities, it is the
direct expenditure only.
4

5

As of June 2015, PSC balances have been consolidated under one single PSC account for all Volume 1 entities under the Central Control of the UN Controller.

ODSG AND OTHER DONOR CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)
2012

2013

2014

20153

2016

2017

230,585,374

233,232,884

237,543,069

242,077,798

262,601,173

238,735,459

Contributions from ODSG

227,364,333

227,165,977

221,811,542

219,340,181

250,218,315

235,101,387

OCHA Extrabudgetary Programme

254,617,435

277,345,887

307,867,072

333,918,844

294,913,926

264,586,005

OCHA donors2

40

40

40

44

43

47

OCHA ODSG members

25

25

27

27

27

28

OCHA Donor contributions1

1

Total includes paid and pledged contributions.

2

Number includes donors such as Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office, private donors, ECHO and UN agencies.

3

Starting 2015, income data also includes future pledges (except multi-year pledges), hence, 2015 donor income might have changed compared to what was published previously.

2017 CLOSING BALANCE BREAKDOWN
Operational Cash
Contingency Funds
UNDP SCA Remittance
Unearmarked unspent
Earmarked unspent

4.0M
10.0M
0.3M
20.2M

Unpaid earmarked pledges

6.0M

Dormant accounts

0.5M

Administration Field Budget (unspent from ASHI)*

2.6M

CBPF Management Units
CLOSING BALANCE
*

$72.0M

After-Service Health Insurance

7.2M
$122.8M

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

61

ANNEXES

DONOR PROFILES
Unearmarked contributions
Earmarked contributions, including
softly earmarked contributions

1. UNITED STATES
7.2% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$48,383,161
20.2% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG

2015

2016

2017

ODSG

250
2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $48,708,200
(SEK 425,000,000)

ODSG
20.0 million Euro
17.5

2015

20

2015

2016

2017

20 million Euro
15
10
5

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $162,810,340
(EUR 142,285,000)

5. EUROPEAN COMMISSION

15.0

25

ODSG

14.5% unearmarked
Contribution:
$18,578,297
7.8% of total OCHA
donor income

300

2015

30

4. GERMANY

350 million Krone

200

ODSG
35 million GBP

Specially designated contributions: a total of $119,915,207
(EUR 90,351,648)

3. SWEDEN

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$17,461,466
7.3% of total OCHA
donor income

81.9% unearmarked
Contribution:
$31,595,453
13.2% of total OCHA
donor income

40
30

Member of OCHA Donor Support Group

2. UNITED KINGDOM

50 million USD

Specially designated contributions: a total of $35,775,000

56.3% unearmarked
Contribution:
$24,582,361
10.3% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG

OCHA contribution trend

2016

2017

6. NORWAY

ODSG
58.4% unearmarked
Contribution:
$14,390,097
6.0% of total OCHA
donor income

130 million Krone
120
110
100

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $21,426,902
(NOK 179,980,000)

7. QATAR

ODSG
97.8% unearmarked
Contribution:
$10,220,000
4.3% of total OCHA
donor income

10 million USD
5
0

2015

2016

2017

8. NETHERLANDS
100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$8,572,535
3.6% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
7.5 million Euro

5.0

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $36,464,450
(EUR 32,928,083)

9. AUSTRALIA
75.5% unearmarked
Contribution:
$8,177,376
3.4% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
12.5 million AUD
10.0
7.5

2015

2016

2017

11. DENMARK

ODSG
50 million Krone
45
40
35
30

2015

Specially designated contributions: a total of $23,993,343
(DKK 150,000,000)

ODSG

18.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$7,947,516
3.3% of total OCHA
donor income

15 million CAD
10
5

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $6,497,521
(CAD 8,550,000)

Specially designated contributions: a total of $2,795,172
(AUD 3,750,000 )

57.1% unearmarked
Contribution:
$7,536,936
3.2% of total OCHA
donor income

10. CANADA

2016

2017

12. SWITZERLAND
30.9% unearmarked
Contribution:
$6,479,407
2.7% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
10.0 million CHF
7.5
5.0

2015

Specially designated contributions: a total of $10,224,593
(CHF 10,034,721)

2016

2017

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

62

ANNEXES

13. JAPAN

ODSG
13.8% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$6,192,981
2.6% of total OCHA
donor income

55.5% unearmarked
Contribution:
$4,388,651
1.8% of total OCHA
donor income

7.5
5.0

2015

2016

2017

15. IRELAND

ODSG

100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$3,791,983
1.6% of total OCHA
donor income

5.0

2015

7.5
5.0
2.5

2015

2016

16. FINLAND

7.5 million Euro

2.5

ODSG
10.0 million USD

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $36,222,752
(EUR 31,900,000)

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$16,162

90.5% unearmarked
Contribution:
$4,244,473
1.8% of total OCHA
donor income

14. BELGIUM

10.0 million USD

2016

2017

ODSG
4.0 million Euro
3.5
3.0

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $19,512,001
(EUR 17,665,610)

17. NEW ZEALAND
100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$3,462,604
1.5% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG

18. REPUBLIC OF KOREA

6 million NZD

47.6% unearmarked
Contribution:
$2,100,000
0.9% of total OCHA
donor income

5
4

2015

2016

2017

ODSG
2 million USD
1
0

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$4,000,000

19. FRANCE1
100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$1,085,776
0.5% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
2 million Euro
1
0

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $6,096,151
(EUR 5,500,000)

ODSG
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$1,085,776
0.5% of total OCHA
donor income

2 million Euro
1
0

2015

2016

22. RUSSIAN FEDERATION
1.0 million USD
0.5
0.0

2015

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $3,666,292
(EUR 3,300,000)

21. MALAYSIA
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$1,000,000
0.4% of total OCHA
donor income

19. SPAIN1

2016

2017

51.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$980,000
0.4% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
1.5 million USD
1.0
0.5

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $20,000

23. LUXEMBOURG
100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$880,236
0.4% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
1.0 million Euro
0.5
0.0

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $797,032
(EUR 750,000)

1

France and Spain both contributed $1,085,776 and are listed alphabetically.

24. UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
67.5% unearmarked
Contribution:
$ 769,975
0.3% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
1.5 million USD
1.0
0.5
0.0

2015

2016

2017

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

63

ANNEXES

25. AUSTRIA
14.8% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$637,030
0.3% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
1.0 million Euro

19.4% unearmarked
Contribution:
$564,444
0.2% of total OCHA
donor income

0.5
0.0

2015

2016

ODSG

26. ESTONIA

2017

1.0 million Euro
0.5
0.0

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $45,087
(EUR 40,000)

ODSG

27. TURKEY
100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$500,000
0.2% of total OCHA
donor income

1.5 million USD
1.0
0.5
0.0

2015

2016

2017

ODSG

28. POLAND
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$492,854
0.2% of total OCHA
donor income

2.5 million PLN
2.0
1.5

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $500,000

29. GREECE

30. SLOVAKIA
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$360,577
0.2% of total OCHA
donor income

0.50 million Euro

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$214,449
0.1% of total OCHA
donor income

3 million USD

0.25
0.00

2015

2016

2017

31. KUWAIT

67.4% unearmarked
Contribution:
$344,649
0.1% of total OCHA
donor income

0.50 million Euro
0.25
0.00

2015

2016

2017

32. ICELAND
2
1
0

2015

2016

2017

100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$214,335
0.1% of total OCHA
donor income

250 thousand USD
200
150
100

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $570,000

33. THAILAND
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$150,739
0.1% of total OCHA
donor income

34. KAZAKHSTAN
1.5 million USD
1.0
0.5
0.0

2015

2016

2017

35. MALTA

33.3% unearmarked
Contribution:
$150,000
0.1% of total OCHA
donor income

150 thousand USD
100
50
0

2015

2016

2017

125 thousand Euro
100
75
50
25
0
2015
2016

2017

36. BULGARIA
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$134,651
0.1% of total OCHA
donor income

200 thousand Euro
100
0

2015

Specially designated contributions: a total of $169,240
(EUR 150,000)

2016

2017

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$114,063
0.05% of total OCHA
donor income

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

64

ANNEXES

37. AZERBAIJAN2

37. ARGENTINA2
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$50,000
0.02% of total OCHA
donor income

50 thousand USD

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$50,000
0.02% of total OCHA
donor income

25
0

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $50,000

0.75 million USD
0.50
0.25
0.00

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $25,000

39. CHINA

40. MONACO
100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$30,000
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

50 thousand USD

100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$26,151
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

25
0

2015

2016

2017

50 thousand Euro
25
0

2015

2016

2017

Specially designated contributions: a total of $50,000

41. SAUDI ARABIA3
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$20,000
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

41. SINGAPORE3
10 million USD
5
0

2015

2016

2017

2
3

50 thousand USD

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$10,319
0.004% of total OCHA
donor income

20 thousand USD

25
0

2015

2016

2017

44. PERU

43. ANDORRA
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$15,924
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$20,000
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

20 thousand Euro
10
0

2015

2016

2017

Argentina and Azerbaijan contributed $50,000 each and are listed alphabetically.
Saudi Arabia and Singapore both contributed $20,000 and are listed alphabetically.

10
0

2015

2016

2017

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

unocha.org
reliefweb.int
@unocha | @UNReliefChief
facebook.com/UNOCHA

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

