

OCHA

UNITED NATIONS OFFICE
FOR THE COORDINATION OF
HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS

ANNUAL REPORT 2019

1

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

﻿

Credits
This document is produced by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). OCHA wishes to
acknowledge the contributions of its committed staff at headquarters and in the field in preparing this document.
Front and Back Cover
OCHA staff member Rania Abdulraheem conducts an assessment mission at Al Sha’ab collective centre for internally
displaced persons in Aden, Yemen. Credit: OCHA/Matteo Minasi.
Editing and Graphic Design
OCHA
For additional information, please contact:
Donor Relations Section
ocha.donor.relations@un.org
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
Palais des Nations, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland
Tel: +41 22 917 1690
The designations employed and the presentation of material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion
whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or
area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

﻿

OCHA THANKS ITS DONORS FOR THEIR GENEROUS
SUPPORT TO ITS ACTIVITIES IN 2019

MEMBER STATES
ARGENTINA

AUSTRALIA

AUSTRIA

BELGIUM

BULGARIA

CANADA

CHINA

DENMARK

ESTONIA

ITALY

FINLAND

FRANCE

GERMANY

ICELAND

IRELAND

JAPAN

REPUBLIC OF KOREA

LATVIA

LUXEMBOURG

MONACO

NETHERLANDS

NEW ZEALAND

NORWAY

PHILIPPINES

POLAND

PORTUGAL

QATAR

ROMANIA

RUSSIAN FEDERATION

SAUDI ARABIA

SINGAPORE

SLOVAKIA

SPAIN

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND

TURKEY

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

UNITED KINGDOM

UNITED STATES

OTHER DONORS
EUROPEAN CIVIL PROTECTION AND
HUMANITARIAN AID OPERATIONS

JERSEY

INGO AND PRIVATE
SECTOR PARTNERS*

INGO donors for 2019: Azerbaijan Red Crescent Society and Save the Children Spain. Private sector donors: UPS Foundation and the
International School of Geneva.

*

3

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

﻿

OCHA NEW YORK
USA

Mexico
Guatemala Honduras

Haiti
Venezuela

El Salvador

LATIN AMERICA AND THE
CARIBBEAN
Panamá, Panama

Colombia

Ecuador

Peru
Bolivia

Regional Ofﬁce coverage
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

CAR - Central African Republic
DRC - Democratic Republic of the Congo
DPR of Korea - Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
oPt - occupied Palestinian territory
Syrian AR - Syrian Arab Republic
IR Iran - Islamic Republic of Iran
Regional Ofﬁce for the Syria Crisis, Amman, Jordan
Operational coordination team

The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the
United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its
authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

4

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

﻿

The Hague
Centre for
Humanitarian Data

Ukraine
Lebanon
(Syria Crisis)

OCHA GENEVA
Switzerland

RO for the Syria Crisis
Jordan (Syria Crisis)
7

Libya
MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA
Cairo, Egypt
Mali
Burkina
Faso

Niger

Chad

Nigeria CAR1
Cameroon

WEST AND CENTRAL
AFRICA
Dakar, Senegal

DRC2

Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Tajikistan

Georgia

DPR of
Korea 3

Turkey (Syria Crisis)

6
Syrian AR5 IR Iran
Afghanistan
Iraq
oPt4

Kuwait

8

Qatar8

Saudi
Arabia 8

Sudan Eritrea

Japan

Pakistan

United Arab
Emirates8

Yemen

Myanmar

ASIA AND THE
PACIFIC
Bangkok,
Thailand
Philippines

Ethiopia
South Sudan
Somalia
SOUTHERN AND
Burundi EASTERN AFRICA
Nairobi, Kenya

Madagascar

Indonesia

Ofﬁce of the
Paciﬁc Islands

5

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

﻿

A young resident of the Dori
refugee camp, Burkina Faso.
Credit: OCHA/Giles Clarke

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

﻿

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

﻿

OCHA 2019
YEAR IN REVIEW

Enhanced Humanitarian
Programme Cycle

1M monthly
users in
ReliefWeb

Stronger, more relevant analysis

50+ country
operations
in Humanitarian
Response.info

17k data sets in
Humanitarian
Data Exchange

Prioritized and people-centred response
Meaningful and systematic monitoring

23 Emergency Response Roster and
Headquarters Core Team deployments

534 maps

United Nations Disaster Assessment
and Coordination

200 MORE
THAN IN 2018

1,504 infographics

Joint Environment Unit
deployments*

300 MORE
THAN IN 2018

17 countries used the
online Situation Reports

Standby Partnership Programme
deployments

IN 7 DIFFERENT
LANGUAGES

Europe
5
Middle East
and North Africa

14
Asia and
the Paciﬁc
23

Latin America
and the Caribbean

21

West and
Central Africa

73
Southern and
Eastern Africa

UN Economic and Social Council’s
Humanitarian Affairs Segment
From relief to development
70th anniversary of Geneva Conventions

Among the 57 UNDAC deployments, 5 were JEU (counted as UNDAC).
Note: The above ﬁgures do not reflect all of the deployments that occurred across country
and regional ofﬁces.

*

Climate change and weather-related disasters
Cyclone Idai
Gender equality
Advancing localization

538
M

836
M
501
M

418
M

698
M

CERF
CBPFs

1.0
2B

Record allocations
USG
advocacy

Anticipation saves lives
Mental Health and Psychosocial Support
Women in humanitarian emergencies
People with disabilities

2017

New CBPF
established
in Ukraine

8

2018

2019

48 countries
reached through
pooled funds

Invisible Citizens Week

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

﻿

Contents
	12	 MAKING LIVES BETTER
	13	

FIELD OFFICES

	42	

DIGITAL PLATFORMS

	43	

ADVOCACY AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL

	45	

OCHA’S ROLE IN THE INTER-AGENCY STANDING COMMITTEE

	48	

GETTING AHEAD OF CRISES: ANTICIPATORY APPROACHES

	50	

HUMANITARIAN FINANCING

	57	 STRENGTHENING OCHA
	58	DECENTRALIZATION

	60	FUNDING
	68	ANNEXES
	69	ACRONYMS
	70	

FINANCIAL TABLES

FEATURED
14	

PREVENTING THE SPREAD OF EBOLA OUTSIDE DRC

15	

BURUNDI: A DISPLACED FAMILY FINDS A HOME

17	

EVALUATION OF THE DROUGHT RESPONSE IN ETHIOPIA

18	

ENHANCING THE HUMANITARIAN PROGRAMME CYCLE

19	

COMMUNITY FEEDBACK AND PERCEPTIONS INFORMING THE HUMANITARIAN PROGRAMME CYCLE

22	

LEADERSHIP AND ACCOUNTABILITY TO AFFECTED PEOPLE

28	

WORLD HUMANITARIAN DAY HONOURS WOMEN HUMANITARIANS

33	

HOW ONE YEMENI BABY MADE IT AGAINST ALL ODDS

35	

ADVANCING GENDER EQUALITY

35	

OSLO CONFERENCE: ENDING SEXUAL AND GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE IN HUMANITARIAN CRISES

36	

ONE DAY, I WILL

41	

HELPING ALBANIA RECOVER FROM ITS WORST EARTHQUAKE IN DECADES

42	

THE IMPACT OF DATA

42	

INFORM EXPANDS THE ANALYSIS IT PROVIDES TO THE HUMANITARIAN COMMUNITY

45	

ENSURING THE INCLUSION OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES

46	

PROTECTION FROM SEXUAL EXPLOITATION AND ABUSE AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT

46	

PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY

47	

GENDER STANDBY CAPACITY PROJECT ADVISERS MAKE A DIFFERENCE

47	

INTEGRATING MENTAL HEALTH AND PSYCHOSOCIAL SUPPORT IN RESPONSE

49	

SOMALIA: ANTICIPATORY ACTION FRAMEWORK FOR DROUGHT

51	

THE VISION FOR CRISIS FINANCING

55	

FOUR STEERS FOR FUNDING

55	

CBPFS: SUPPORTING SYSTEMATIC COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY

64	

OCHA DONOR SUPPORT GROUP

9

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

﻿

Foreword

The United
Nations UnderSecretary-General
for Humanitarian
Affairs and
Emergency Relief
Coordinator (ERC),
Mark Lowcock,
with Haidy and
her newborn,
Ernie, at the Jose
Gregorio Hernandez
Hospital in Caracas,
Venezuela. The
hospital was
supported by a
grant from the UN
Central Emergency
Response Fund.

A

t the start of 2019, we anticipated
that humanitarian needs for the
year would be similar to 2018. But
as the year went on, intensifying
conflicts, climatic shocks and the spread of
infectious diseases drove needs to unprecedented levels. We now face a once-in-alifetime pandemic, with the most vulnerable
people already facing even more hardship
due to its impact.

humanitarian assistance to more than 13
million Yemenis each month.

In 2019, OCHA co-hosted a pledging event
that helped raise $2.6 billion to meet the
needs of people suffering through the conflict in Yemen. OCHA’s efforts helped get

In these and other emergencies, OCHA
helped humanitarian organizations get
ahead of crises with early action and anticipatory approaches. In Yemen, we supported

Eight Southern African countries declared
a state of emergency because of climate-related shocks: drought and cyclones. To
support the response for cyclones Idai and
Kenneth, OCHA pre-deployed emergency
coordination experts and used the UN’s
Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF)
to deliver quick life-saving assistance. When
The humanitarian system has never been Hurricane Dorian hit the Bahamas, OCHA
more vital, and I’m pleased that donors’ supported the Government’s efforts to regenerosity has proven up to the challenge. duce suffering and save lives.
In 2019, over US$18 billion in contributions
provided life-saving aid for more than 117 In Burkina Faso, OCHA opened an office
million people. That generosity has helped in the face of growing need as hundreds
achieve significant results. It compares with of thousands of people were displaced by
$15.8 billion in 2018, the previous record.
spiralling insecurity.

Mr. Lowcock
visited Venezuela
in November 2019.
Credit: OCHA/
Gemma Cortes

10

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

﻿

a global cholera risk model to forecast the
spread of disease. When two years of failed
rains in Somalia led to predictions of acute
hunger for 1 million people, early action to
scale up assistance helped reduce deaths
and human suffering, while also cutting
response times and cost.

flexible and accountable organization by
beginning a process of decentralization of
staff from Headquarters in New York and
Geneva to boost capacity in regional and
country offices and establish cost-effective
hubs in The Hague and Istanbul.

OCHA mobilized significant resources for
its UN and NGO partners. For Syria, OCHA
helped raise $7 billion, which enabled aid
workers to reach an average of more than 5
million people every month.

We could not have accomplished all this
work without the critical support and collaboration of our partners and generous
donors across the world. I thank you for
your commitment to humanitarian action and to OCHA.

OCHA’s pooled funds have been at the forefront of channelling funding to where needs
are greatest. Together, Country-Based Pooled
Funds and CERF allocated a record $1.5 billion across 48 countries. They also mobilized
support for places where human suffering
is often forgotten. A total of $200 million
was channelled from CERF to 21 neglected
crises, including Afghanistan, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Chad, Djibouti, Mali, Niger and
Ukraine. In 2019, for the third consecutive
year, CERF received record-high pledged
contributions totalling $834.6 million.

Mark Lowcock
United Nations Under-Secretary-General
for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency
Relief Coordinator

OCHA’s Global Humanitarian Overview
continued to provide the most accurate
assessment of needs and how best to meet
them. Delivering more inclusive humanitarian action was a major focus of 2019. OCHA
mobilized funding to address sexual and
gender-based violence in humanitarian
crises at the first conference of its kind in
Oslo, co-hosted by Norway. Meanwhile, it
took a whole-of-organization approach
to strengthening its internal policies, systems and action on sexual exploitation and
abuse. In November, with Inter-Agency
Standing Committee partners, we launched
Guidelines on Inclusion of Persons with
Disabilities in Humanitarian Action.
A determination to put people in need at the
centre of our response triggered a shift in
budget allocations away from Headquarters
and towards country and regional offices.
OCHA made strides in building a more agile,

11

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Making lives better

MAKING
LIVES
BETTER
OCHA serves the world’s suffering people through its staff based
in offices around the world. In 2019, it helped mobilize $18 billion
for response efforts that it coordinated to target more than 117
million people globally. OCHA teams negotiated on issues such
as access, respect for humanitarian principles, and protection
of civilians and aid workers to ensure that affected people get
life-saving relief on time. OCHA’s pooled funds provided US$1.5
billion to UN agencies and hundreds of national and international
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and facilitated their work.

12

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Field offices
WHAT OCHA’S COUNTRY OFFICES DO
Provide support to Governments to
respond to a crisis.
Provide support to the UN Resident
Coordinator/Humanitarian Coordinator to
coordinate the response.
Develop a common assessment of
needs and a common response plan
for the aid community.
Build a common strategy to respond.
Manage Country-Based Pooled Funds.

EASTERN AND SOUTHERN AFRICA
Regional Office for Southern and
Eastern Africa (ROSEA)

I

n Southern Africa, the global climate
crisis compounded deep-rooted poverty, economic inequality and political
instability, leading to increased humanitarian needs in 2019. Eight countries were
forced to declare a state of emergency due
to climate-related shocks: Angola, Botswana,
Lesotho and Namibia because of drought;
the Comoros, Malawi, Mozambique and
Zimbabwe following the impact of cyclones
Idai and Kenneth.

Provide up-to-date information
on the crisis and the needs of the
affected people.
Advocate for the needs and protection
of affected people and aid workers.
Advocate for access to affected people.
Help mobilize and track resources to
respond to the crisis.
Track and monitor the response
to a crisis.

continued to report violations against civilians. Sudan underwent a major transition
of power, which brought increased opportunity and heightened fragility. The region
remained on high alert due to the possibility
of Ebola spreading to other countries.

Deteriorating economic prospects and political instability affected much of the subregion. Internal violence in Mozambique’s
Cabo Delgado Province affected more than
60,000 people, some of whom were displaced. At the early period between harvests
in 2019/20, nearly 12 million people across
the subregion faced severe food insecurity. OCHA ROSEA deployed 22 staff on 108 surge
missions, collectively providing support for
In Eastern Africa, conflict, violence and re- 2,004 days (compared with a previous high
current climatic shocks increased humani- of 1,172 days in 2016). Its expert staff also
tarian needs, with nearly 12.8 million people provided 293 days on missions to provide
internally displaced and 4.7 million refugees support on critical issues, such as access,
across the region. Ethiopia and Somalia saw civil-military coordination and community
significant displacement, and South Sudan engagement, and to ensure authorities and

Macomia district in
Cabo Delgado was
heavily affected by
Cyclone Kenneth,
which made landfall
on 25 April 2019.
Credit: OCHA/
Saviano Abreu

13

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Making lives better

country teams had the capacity to respond, mined by insecurity, political manipulation
including in countries deemed high priority and community distrust. At the outbreak’s
peak, more than 120 new cases were refor Ebola preparedness.
ported per week.

In 2019, the office had 28 staff (15 national,
13 international) in its Nairobi hub, along
with two United Nations Volunteers (UNVs),
and it maintained a Humanitarian Advisory Team (HAT) in Madagascar, with three
national staff. Rising needs in the region
required OCHA ROSEA to establish temporary HATs in Mozambique (6 international
staff), Zimbabwe (2 international staff) and
Zambia (2 international staff).

Kiombwe with

Preventing the spread of
Ebola outside DRC

In May 2019, the UN Secretary-General appointed an Emergency Ebola Response Coordinator (EERC) to coordinate political, security
and community engagement and to facilitate
a more conducive environment for the public
health response. Emergency Relief Coordinator/Under-Secretary-General (ERC/USG)
Lowcock activated the Inter-Agency Standing
Committee (IASC) System-Wide Scale-Up Protocol for Infectious Disease Events for the first
time, on the IASC Principals’ recommendation.
In July, WHO declared the Ebola outbreak in
DRC a public health emergency of international concern.

Jovial at a childcare
centre in Butembo,
North Kivu, in the
Democratic Republic
of the Congo (DRC).
Children separated
or orphaned due
to Ebola in DRC
have received care

On 1 August 2018, the tenth Ebola outbreak in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
was declared in North Kivu Province, where
complex underlying challenges prevail related
to insecurity, major pre-existing humanitarian
needs, the presence of foreign and domestic
armed groups, massive population displacement and fragile public infrastructure.

and support from
UNICEF and its
partners.
Credit: UN/Martine
Perret

The Government led the response, supported
by the World Health Organization (WHO) and
an array of partners, and rolled out the new
vaccines. However, the response was under-

OCHA supported WHO and the EERC in
developing the coordination architecture for
the response, elaborating the fourth strategic
response plan and facilitating the greater
inclusion of NGOs.
OCHA supported the Government’s National Operations Centre and sub-coordination
mechanisms, including with secretariat and
information management services. OCHA was
also the secretariat for the Ebola Emergency
Response Team chaired by the EERC and
the WHO Assistant Director-General. OCHA
offices in the region supported United Nations
Resident Coordinators and WHO offices in
Burundi, Rwanda, South Sudan and Uganda in
preparedness efforts to prevent and control
the possible cross-border spread of Ebola.

Burundi

In 2019, about 1.8 million people in Burundi
required assistance. Many of those people
remained extremely vulnerable and had significant needs, but increasing restrictions
had affected aid delivery. A cholera epidemic was declared in June, and the number of
malaria cases reached 8.9 million, including
3,294 deaths. The response to these outbreaks was impacted by activities to prepare

14

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Making lives better

for a possible Ebola outbreak. Burundi, with
its proximity to Ebola-affected DRC, was
among the countries identified as being at
very high risk in December 2018.

In 2019, OCHA Burundi had 12 staff (6 national, 6 international), all based in Bujumbura,
including a temporary international staff
member as an Ebola Coordination Specialist.

Julienne Irankunda
with one of her eight
children.
She lives in Gitaza
camp, Burundi.

Burundi is extremely vulnerable to the impacts of climate change – recurrent and devastating natural disasters triggered the displacement of the majority of the more than
100,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs)
and the damage to agricultural production.
Food assistance accounted for most of the
humanitarian aid, with some 1.7 million
people in the crisis and emergency phases
of food insecurity (Integrated Food Security
Phase Classification phases 3 and 4).
OCHA’s efforts focused on the effective coordination of 7 sectors and some 65 humanitarian partners. OCHA supported the United
Nations Resident Coordinator (RC) in his
advocacy for principled humanitarian action and the development of strategic links
between the UN Development Assistance
Framework, the resilience framework and
the Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP).
OCHA played a leading role with the Government-led National Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction in preparedness for emergencies.
With the Ebola threat and access constraints,
demands on OCHA’s coordination role significantly increased.

Burundi: A displaced
family finds a home

Credit: IOM Burundi/
Gustave Munezero

When flash floods swept her home away in
2016, Julienne was forced to seek refuge in
Gitaza camp in Rumonge Province. She lived
there with her eight children for two years. “We
were in very poor conditions, in torn down
tents as small as birds’ nests. With eight children, it was very tough,” she recalled.
Thanks to funding from donors and the
support of humanitarian partners working
alongside the Government of Burundi, Julienne
and her children received shelter and reintegration assistance.
“I am now excited to have a house, a room
for children, a room where I can relax and a
room for guests. I was no longer able to host
visitors, as there was no room for them,” she
explained to OCHA in 2019. “We are now very
grateful that we are going to have enough
space, a toilet and enough security.”

15

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Eritrea

Later in the year, the UN Assistant Secretary-General (ASG) for Humanitarian Affairs
and Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator
(DERC), Ms. Ursula Mueller,* visited Eritrea.

Despite the signing of a peace agreement
with Ethiopia in July 2018, the expected
economic benefits of the pact did not materialize in 2019. Eritrea also continued to be OCHA held several briefings and had consulone of the countries most at risk of climate tations with donors in and outside the country and supported the few NGOs working in
change in Africa.
the country. It also facilitated a $2 million
Humanitarian needs remained difficult to allocation from the Central Emergency Rearticulate due to prevailing Government re- sponse Fund’s (CERF) underfunded-emerstrictions. However, drought-induced food gencies window.
insecurity and malnutrition were challenges for pastoralist and coastal populations, OCHA established and chaired the UNCT
particularly during the mid-July to mid- Task Force on preventing sexual exploitaNovember lean season. Food insecurity was tion and abuse.
a continued threat, and about 50 per cent of
the country’s children were stunted. Acute In 2019, OCHA Eritrea comprised eight staff
malnutrition was a major cause of death (five national and three international, one of
for children under age 5, and immuniza- whom was a UNV).
tion coverage was low, especially in remote
areas. Disease outbreak surveillance, particularly with increased border movements, Ethiopia
was a significant concern, as was access to
health services, including maternal health Intercommunal tensions and periodic clashes between communities, as well as increasin remote areas.
ingly active armed groups in pocket areas of
Within a context lacking humanitarian co- rural Ethiopia, challenged humanitarian reordination mechanisms and strategies, and sponse and access, Government return plans
without a Government counterpart, OCHA and systems. The humanitarian landscape
supported the RC and Humanitarian Co- shifted during the second quarter of 2019 as
ordinator (HC) and the UN Country Team the Government implemented its new plan
(UNCT) to integrate humanitarian action to address internal displacement, and some
into development planning.
1.7 million of the 2.7 million conflict-induced
IDPs were returned, relocated and integrated.
OCHA facilitated, consolidated and monitored the implementation of the 2019 Basic ERC Lowcock visited Ethiopia with the UN
Services Response Priorities (BSRP) docu- Assistant Secretary-General for Peacebuildment, an internal UN plan that included ing Support, Oscar Fernandez-Taranco, and
humanitarian “basic service” priorities, such the UN’s Special Rapporteur on the Human
as clean water and primary health care as Rights of Internally Displaced Persons,
part of the UN-Government Strategic Part- Cecilia Jimenez-Damar. Mr. Lowcock called
nership Cooperation Framework 2017–2021. for urgent funding to ramp up support for
Through the BSRP, OCHA coordinated anal- the Government-led response to displaceysis of the humanitarian situation and pri- ment and other humanitarian needs, as well
oritized needs and the response. With BSRP as efforts to find durable solutions. In 2019,
requirements of $27.2 million, mobilization chronic food insecurity due to recurrent
efforts raised 49 per cent ($13 million) to droughts worsened in areas that experienced
assist 559,000 people in six regions.
extreme weather events and where previous
droughts overlapped with the intercommu-

Ms. Mueller was the OCHA ASG/DERC until February 2020.

*

16

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

Making lives better

nal violence in 2018/19 that reduced access
to land. Humanitarian needs remained high
throughout 2019 due to the large number of
people displaced by violence.
OCHA coordinated life-saving response to
8.3 million people who needed humanitarian assistance. Working with more than 80
partners, OCHA scaled up its subnational
presence to improve response planning and
coordination.

high level in 2016. Fundraising efforts
for the Indian Ocean Dipole in 2017 were
less successful.

OCHA’s work in Ethiopia was supported
by 69 staff (56 national, 13 international) •	 The cluster system introduced in 2015
strengthened coordination of the internationand 2 Junior Professional Officers in 13 loal
response. Most stakeholders interviewed
cations, including five regional state capifelt that coordination was strong. These
tals and eight subregional capitals in conperceptions were echoed in the aid worker
flict-affected areas.

Evaluation of the drought
response in Ethiopia
Between 2015 and 2018, Ethiopia experienced
its worst droughts in decades. They were
linked to El Niño and the Indian Ocean Dipole,
also known as the “Indian Niño”. By the end of
2015, about 10.2 million people were affected,
while an estimated 8 million people needed
food aid by the end of 2018.
The ERC launched an Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluation (IAHE) of the drought response
in Ethiopia at the end of 2018 to examine its
impact and value. The OCHA-managed evaluation covered the 2015 to 2018 drought period.
Some key findings were:
•	 Many lives were saved by the international
community’s contributions, and most people
received the assistance they most needed.
A clear majority of 64 per cent of affected
people surveyed felt that the response was
relevant; 74 per cent said they felt treated
with respect.

survey conducted for the evaluation. The
cluster system is a coordination tool that
aims to strengthen partnerships by groups
of aid organizations coalescing around a
common theme of humanitarian relief, such
as health, protection and education.

Kalil Wado and his
four children on his
barren farmland
in Oromia Region,
Ethiopia. This
photograph was
taken during the
drought in 2016.
Credit: OCHA/
Charlotte Cans

•	 The close integration of the international humanitarian and Government response was
widely seen as key to explaining successes
of the drought response since 2015. There
was also evidence that the close cooperation strengthened Government response
capacities in some areas, such as logistics,
health and nutrition.
•	 The humanitarian system should replace
food distributions with cash wherever
possible to reduce dependency and enable
market growth.
The evaluation identified several opportunities for improvement in areas such as needs
assessments, planning and targeting, timely
early warning and early action.

•	 A strong, collective effort to mobilize
resources for the El Niño drought in 2015
resulted in funding arriving late but at a

17

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Making lives better

OCHA coordinated and led humanitarian
financing instruments to assist the most
vulnerable Somalis. The Somalia Humanitarian Fund allocated $53.4 million to 57
humanitarian partners in three allocations.
In addition, CERF provided $50 million
for urgent support to people affected by
droughts and floods.

Flood-affected
people receiving
assistance in
Caale Jaal informal
settlement, Belet
Weyne district,
Somalia.
Credit: OCHA

With 75 staff (54 national, 21 international), 2 UNVs and 1 Standby Partner, OCHA
supported the Somalia response through a
The humanitarian crisis in Somalia remained head office in Mogadishu and sub-offices in
among the most complex and long-standing Hargeisa (Somaliland), Garowe (Puntland),
in the world. Due to protracted and recur- Baidoa (South West), Dhusamareeb (Galrent humanitarian needs linked to climatic mudug), Kismayo and Doolow (Jubaland),
shocks, armed conflict and violence, more Mogadishu (Banadir) and Belet Weyne (Hirthan 4 million Somalis needed humanitarian Shabelle). The office in Nairobi, Kenya, supassistance in 2019.
ported information management, administration, strategic planning and coordination,
An increase in security-related incidents humanitarian financing and donor liaison.
hindered the delivery of aid, especially in
hard-to-reach areas, which represent more
than one third of the country. OCHA Somalia Enhancing the
coordinated more than 325 partners who
reached more than 2 million people with Humanitarian
life-saving interventions.
Programme
Cycle
ENHANCED HUMANITARIAN
Somalia

ERC Lowcock visited Somalia with senior
officials from the World Bank and the UN
Peacebuilding Support Office.

PROGRAMME CYCLE

Mr. Lowcock called for sustained funding to
protect recent gains made in beating back
hunger, and he reiterated the importance of
the Government’s Resilience and Recovery
Framework, which is at the centre of efforts
to break the paradigm of recurring humanitarian crises in Somalia.
OCHA Somalia ensured the integration of
gender and protection concerns in needs
analysis and humanitarian planning and
response. The office led efforts to strengthen
engagement with affected communities, including through surveys, to inform strategic
decisions and to incorporate people’s voices
and assessments into the 2020 Humanitarian Programme Cycle (HPC).

18

In 2019, OCHA enhanced the HPC, which is a
series of actions to analyse needs and to prioritize, plan and coordinate response delivery
during a crisis.
These actions include a more in-depth analysis
of humanitarian needs that examines the
combined effects on people of humanitarian

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

Making lives better

shocks, stresses, vulnerabilities and capacities
across different sectors.

Uganda, Somalia, South Sudan, Syria,
Ukraine and Yemen.

The new approach focuses on priorities identified by affected people themselves, and on
vulnerabilities and diversities such as those
linked to gender, age and disability.

In 2019, the target was to ensure that at
least 40 per cent of HRPs included collective
accountability to affected populations (AAP)
approaches that would support improved
response-wide community engagement. Partners reached 60 per cent of HRPs. Of those assessed for 2019, 12 HRPs contained collective
approaches/services, including: Afghanistan,
Burundi, Chad, DRC, Ethiopia, Haiti, Iraq, Libya,
Mali, Nigeria, oPt and Somalia.

In South Sudan, a dedicated survey of people
with disabilities was instrumental in informing
the response.
The new approach also captures chronic and
structural issues and identifies emerging risks.
It supports links between humanitarian and
resilience responses that help people cope
with and adapt to shocks in the long term.
In Burundi, a resilience plan was developed
alongside the HRP.
Twenty-three countries produced a Humanitarian Needs Overview and Response Plan
in 2019, demonstrating progress made in the
HPC process, and greater efficiency and effectiveness in the use of resources for humanitarian response.
The HPC is also an advocacy tool that reminds
us that coordinated humanitarian action is an
obligation for all aid partners. Since its inception, it has enabled the humanitarian community to build a stronger evidence base for the
collective response.

Community feedback and
perceptions informing
the Humanitarian
Programme Cycle
Several countries began to consider community feedback and perceptions in their assessments and response plans in 2019. Support to
collate, analyse and integrate data based on
the feedback surged with collective support
from OCHA and members of the IASC Results
Group in 12 countries: Afghanistan,
Bangladesh, CAR, Chad, Iraq, Nigeria,

South Sudan

South Sudan continued to be gripped by a
serious humanitarian crisis in 2019. About
7.2 million people were in need, and approximately 5 million were assisted by more than
171 humanitarian partners.
OCHA worked with those partners to improve access and reduce bureaucratic impediments through intensive field-based negotiation efforts, which led to an increased
field presence and coverage of underserved
areas. OCHA led the effort to strengthen the
needs analysis work, creating partnerships
with UN agencies and specialized NGOs
through the newly established Needs Analysis Working Group. OCHA’s Juba and field
teams steered the planning for and response
to the flooding that affected 908,000 people
in the autumn of 2019.
OCHA also established and managed the
Ebola Virus Disease secretariat, which
worked closely with the WHO technical
team, the Ministry of Health and other partners to lead the preparedness and response
readiness efforts and helped mobilize $31
million. Under OCHA’s leadership, the South
Sudan Humanitarian Fund (SSHF) provided
more than $68 million to fund key HRP priorities, and to respond to the most urgent
needs in the flood emergency. Forty per cent
of the SSHF funds were allocated to national NGOs, showing OCHA’s commitment to
the localization agenda. These funds were

19

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Employees of a
multi-year nutrition
project funded
by the Sudan
Humanitarian Fund
in Daresta, a rural
village in Kassala
State, Sudan.
Credit: OCHA/
Saviano Abreu

20

complemented with about $28 million from OCHA worked with 80 partners to coorCERF to support the flood response, IDP re- dinate assistance to more than 4 million
people across the country, and it worked
turnees and Ebola preparedness.
with the transitional Government to remove
In 2019, OCHA South Sudan had 99 staff (56 bureaucratic impediments and access renational, 43 international) based in Juba and strictions. As a result, OCHA co-led and fasub-offices in Aweil, Bentiu, Bor, Malakal, cilitated a number of inter-agency missions
Torit, Wau, Yambio and Yei.
and preliminary humanitarian assistance in
several locations in parts of Jebel Marra, an
area in West Darfur controlled by the SuSudan
dan Liberation Army-Abdul Wahid. It also
helped to improve access to areas in South
About 8.5 million people in Sudan need- Kordofan and Blue Nile controlled by the
ed humanitarian assistance in 2019. The Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North.
number increased from 5.5 million in 2018
primarily because of the economic crisis In parallel, OCHA managed humanitarian
and political instability, including popu- financing instruments to direct funding tolar protests that removed the long-stand- wards the most urgent priorities. The Sudan
ing Government.
Humanitarian Fund allocated about $60 million to HCT-endorsed humanitarian activYears of conflict and low levels of invest- ities, including responding to the impacts
ment have affected the infrastructure and of the economic crisis, flooding and disease
the provision of essential services. The coun- outbreaks. OCHA Sudan also coordinated
try’s health-care set-up remained at risk of the disbursement of $43 million from CERF
collapsing, water and sanitation coverage is for cholera response, economic crisis and
poor, and the education system is strained. related activities.
Climate change has also had an impact: Sudan continued to face natural disasters, in- With 94 staff (69 national, 25 internationcluding flooding. Food insecurity threatened al), OCHA supported the Sudan response
lives and livelihoods, driven by prolonged through offices in Khartoum, four Darfur
conflict, environmental deterioration, nat- states (except East Darfur), South Kordofan,
ural disasters and the economic crisis.
Blue Nile and Abyei.

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Making lives better

WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA
Regional Office for West and
Central Africa (ROWCA)

The West and Central Africa region is beset
with some of the world’s most acute and
prolonged crises. Climate shocks, extreme
poverty, rapid population growth, health
crises, and growing insecurity and conflict
continued to drive high levels of vulnerability and humanitarian need. Out of 500 million people in the region, 38 million needed
assistance and protection in 2019.

Spiralling insecurity spurred a tenfold increase in internal displacement – from 47,000
IDPs in 2018 to more than 560,000 in 2019.
OCHA opened its newest country office in
Burkina Faso on 1 July 2019 as part of the
UN’s commitment to rapidly scale up operations across crisis-affected areas.

The decision to set up the office came in the
context of non-State armed groups increasingly targeting people, the growing risk of
intercommunal conflict, and constrained
humanitarian access to the most affected
communities. By the end of 2019, OCHA
Across the Sahel, food insecurity and mal- had worked with 48 partners to coordinate
nutrition levels remained high, and about life-saving assistance to more than 1 million
4 million people were displaced. Conflict people. Despite the fourfold increase in the
continued unabated for a tenth year in the number of people who received assistance
Lake Chad Basin, where almost 2.5 million in the second half of the year, humanitarian
people had to flee their homes. In the cen- partners struggled to keep pace with rapidly
tral Sahel, insecurity worsened, causing increasing needs.
massive displacements and acute needs. In
DRC and the Central African Republic (CAR), OCHA guided the nascent humanitarian
long-running conflict and protracted crises community through its first full HPC. Workcontinued to affect millions.
ing closely with partners, OCHA mobilized
$10 million from CERF to kick-start humanROWCA provided surge capacity and tech- itarian operations. This established a good
nical support to the region and to countries practice in jointly targeting life-saving asin neighbouring regions.
sistance across multiple sectors to achieve
greater impact.
The office deployed 29 staff for 1,773 days to
support emergency response, and an addi- To enhance the impact of humanitarian actional 507 days to provide technical support tion by strengthening humanitarian coordiand to support operational readiness and nation, OCHA appointed the HC, activated
partnerships. Most missions were to DRC
and Burkina Faso. ROWCA staff also deployed to crises outside the region, notably
Mozambique and Libya.

Local women
prepare maize flour
outside a village in
the northern region
of Burkina Faso.
Credit: OCHA/Giles
Clarke

In 2019, ROWCA had 37 staff (20 national, 17
international), with an additional 2 national staff in the HAT in Burkina Faso until its
transition into a country office in July 2019.
Burkina Faso

Burkina Faso emerged as one of the world’s
fastest-growing humanitarian crises in 2019.

21

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Making lives better

the HCT and the Cluster Approach at the
national level, and led operational coordination at the subnational level. OCHA established specialized platforms on humanitarian access and civil-military coordination,
and it mobilized support for increasing
collaboration on humanitarian advocacy,
community engagement and accountability
to affected people, and prevention of sexual
exploitation and abuse in the response.
OCHA had 14 staff (7 national, 7 international) in place by November, working across
the capital, Ouagadougou, and in the Centre-Nord and Sahel regions, host to more
than 85 per cent of IDPs.

Leadership and
accountability to
affected people
OCHA’s Inter-Agency Services Branch facilitated a collaborative workshop on leadership and
accountability to crisis- and disaster-affected
people with the Peer-2-Peer Project in 2019.
A young mother at
an OCHA-supported
food distribution
site in south-west
Cameroon.
Credit: OCHA/Giles
Clarke

Humanitarian leadership, including HCs and
eight OCHA Heads of offices, gathered to
strengthen how leadership decisions are informed by and responsive to trends in community feedback, perceptions and social insights.
The participants developed a draft Collective

Accountability Framework that sets out core
commitments and steps for humanitarian
leadership to develop joined-up response
efforts on information sharing and community
feedback that adapts response accordingly.
The humanitarian community in Somalia
and Burkina Faso took this on board in 2019.
Somalia strengthened its existing approach
to community engagement and accountability, while Burkina Faso is establishing a new
approach. In both cases, the Framework seeks
to strengthen and harmonize how agencies
provide information to affected communities
and how they ensure decisions are driven
by the views of communities, and to enable
communities to give feedback on the overall
humanitarian response.

Cameroon

Humanitarian needs in Cameroon rose to
unprecedented levels in 2019. About 4.3 million people – one in six people and a 30 per
cent increase from 2018 – needed emergency
assistance. Most of Cameroon’s territory (8
out of 10 regions) is affected by one of the
three humanitarian crises: Boko Haram violence in the Far North; consequences of the
influx of refugees from CAR into the eastern
regions; and growing humanitarian needs
due to violence in the north-west and southwest. Humanitarian challenges were also
exacerbated by structural factors, such as
weak social protection systems and chronic
vulnerabilities, which hinder the long-term
recovery of affected people.
OCHA continued to coordinate the humanitarian response in Cameroon to support 131
partners. In the Far North, OCHA took over
the coordination leadership from the Office
of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees (UNHCR) in late 2018, meaning it could marshal more inclusive coordination mechanisms that ensured better
coordination between humanitarian and
development programming. In the northwest and south-west, OCHA supported
new coordination structures following the
cluster approach activation in the region in

22

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Making lives better

October 2018; reinforced public advocacy
and reporting; and supported a gradual and
safe increase in access through a transparent approach that involved building relationships with the Government, diaspora,
communities and non-State armed groups.

ment, armed groups, donors, humanitarian partners and the UN Multidimensional
Integrated Stabilization Mission in the
Central African Republic (MINUSCA). The
office and MINUSCA consolidated and conveyed information updates on the crisis from
humanitarian partners, identifying priorities
OCHA had 27 staff (19 national, 8 in- and ensuring high-level advocacy.
ternational) working across the capital
city (Yaoundé), the Far North (Maroua) In 2019, the CAR Humanitarian Fund reand South-West (Buea), as well as in the ceived $28.7 million in contributions, alloNorth-West (Bamenda), where it opened a cated $39 million and reached 1.1 million
sub-office in 2019. Standby partners de- people with assistance.
ployed several staff to support protection,
access and civil-military coordination.
During the year, OCHA CAR further decentralized and increased its footprint in
remote and hard-to-reach locations where
Central African Republic
the needs are most severe and coordinated
response was required the most. To respond
The humanitarian crisis in CAR remained to dire needs in the north-east and southone of the world’s most severe. More than east, OCHA upgraded an existing temporary
half of the population needed humanitarian office to a sub-office and opened three new
assistance and protection, one in four people temporary offices. At the year’s end, OCHA
was displaced inside and outside the country, had 91 staff (65 national, 26 international)
and nearly all 79 districts had IDPs and re- and 4 UNVs across 12 locations, including
turnees. The lack of essential services, such 4 regional coordination hubs (Bambari,
as health care and water, significantly con- Bangassou, Bouar and Kaga-Bandoro), 8
tributed to the resurgence of epidemics that temporary offices in hotspots (Alindao, Bahad been eradicated. Acute malnutrition tangafo, Birao, Bocaranga, Berberati, Bria,
was a leading cause of morbidity and mor- Paoua and Zemio) and the main office in
tality in children under age 5, and 35 per cent the capital, Bangui.
of the population was acutely food insecure.

The UN Assistant
Secretary-General
for Humanitarian
Affairs and Deputy
Emergency Relief
Coordinator, Ursula
Mueller, drinks water
from a tap at an IDP
site in Bria Town,
CAR.
Credit: OCHA/
Florent Vergnes

Notwithstanding the Political Agreement
for Peace and Reconciliation reached in
February 2019, attacks against civilians
and serious violations of human rights and
international humanitarian law continued unabated.
CAR remained one of the most dangerous
places for humanitarian workers. Security
incidents against humanitarian personnel
and assets continued to rise, with nearly one
incident per day registered in 2019. The severity of the incidents also worsened in 2019.
OCHA CAR used its unique role to facilitate humanitarian access and promote the
protection of civilians with the Govern-

23

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Making lives better

A household of 15 at
a site for returnees

Chad

OCHA advocated for easing restrictions on
humanitarian actors’ movements to ensure a
principled response to the needs of extremely vulnerable people. It also facilitated dialogue with Government counterparts to
mitigate the impact of a presidential decree
to regulate the presence of national and international NGOs and working modalities
in the country.

in the village of
Djako, located 40
km from Moundou,
Chad.
Credit: OCHA/
Federica Gabellini

Some women
were subjected to
sexual violence
while fetching
water outside a site
for the internally
displaced in DRC.
Psychological
support provided
by the NGO
Transcultural
Psychosocial
Organization helped
them resume their
daily lives.
Credit: OCHA/

About 4.3 million people – more than a quarter of Chad’s population – needed humanitarian assistance due to forced displacement,
chronic food insecurity, malnutrition and
recurrent health epidemics. At the same time,
Chad continued to host refugees from Sudan,
CAR and Nigeria who were unable to return
home because of political uncertainty, new
tensions and ongoing conflict in their countries of origin.

When large numbers of people were
displaced following extensive flooding,
OCHA’s leadership was critical for several
inter-agency assessments and the response.
OCHA supported work to enhance Chad’s
preparedness and to build national capacity
and structures with a CERF allocation of
$10.9 million.

With 41 staff (28 national, 13 international), OCHA supported the Chad response
OCHA recognized the importance of ad- through offices in the capital, N’Djamena,
dressing chronic vulnerability and structural and in the west (Baga Sola), east (Abeché)
deficiencies, such as lack of social protection and south (Goré).
driving humanitarian needs. It was pivotal
in consolidating a collaborative framework
with development actors. Based on lessons Democratic Republic of the Congo
from the previous joint analysis exercise,
OCHA brought all stakeholders (Govern- The humanitarian crisis in DRC remained
ment, development actors, humanitarians one of the largest and most complex in the
and civil society) together. This resulted world. At the start of 2019, more than 12
in defining a road map for more effective million people needed protection and huhumanitarian and development program- manitarian assistance. By the year’s end, the
ming in Chad.
number had increased to an estimated 15.6
million people.

Alioune Ndiaye

In addition to conflict, displacement, food
insecurity and acute malnutrition, DRC was
hit by two of its worst disease outbreaks
ever – measles (more than 6,000 deaths,
most of them children) and Ebola (more
than 2,200 deaths).
OCHA facilitated the coordination of the
humanitarian response of more than 250
humanitarian actors. It scaled up its operations to provide critical support to Government-led response efforts to combat Ebola,
in close coordination with WHO.

24

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Making lives better

OCHA also directed funding towards the
most urgent priorities. The DRC Humanitarian Fund allocated $76.9 million to HCT-endorsed humanitarian activities, targeting
5.1 million people. CERF provided $32 million to address food security, nutrition and
emergency protection needs, targeting 1.4
million people.

ed-emergencies window to meet priority
needs in Mali.

OCHA played a leading role in integrating
gender and protection concerns across the
response, ensuring that civil-military and
access coordination mechanisms were implemented for the protection of humanitarian space. Several trainings and sensitization
With 177 staff (147 national, 30 interna- sessions took place in 2019 with the military,
tional), OCHA DRC maintained an opera- non-State armed groups, local authorities
tional presence in Kinshasa and affected and community leaders.
areas across the country. Four sub-offices
(Goma, Bukavu, Kalémie and Kananga) and OCHA Mali had 46 staff (28 national, 18 insix temporary offices (one in Ituri, two in ternational), with a head office in Bamako
North Kivu, two in South Kivu, one in Kasaï) and sub-offices in Mopti, Timbuktu and Gao.
enabled coordination at regional/local levels
near the crisis areas and affected people, and
they played a key role in facilitating access
through engagement with relevant parties.
Mali

The humanitarian situation in Mali significantly deteriorated as conflict and violence
spread in northern and central regions.
The violence coincided with and accelerated the withdrawal of administrative
authorities, the national army and public
service providers.
The number of IDPs more than doubled
within a month, from 80,302 in October to
201,429 in November. This was mainly due
to violent attacks on villages, but also to ongoing military operations in Gao, Menaka,
Mopti and the Mali-Burkina Faso border
area. In 2019, more than 1,800 incidents affecting the safety of civilians were recorded.
In addition, floods affected about 78,000
people in 2019.

Two refugee girls

Niger

whose families

In Niger, one of the world’s poorest countries, conflicts escalated in areas bordering
Burkina Faso and Mali, while insecurity in
the Lake Chad Basin persisted. Meanwhile,
areas previously unaffected by population
displacement witnessed the arrival of tens
of thousands of new refugees fleeing Nigeria.
Hundreds of thousands of people also had
to contend with recurrent food insecurity,
malnutrition and floods.

northern Nigeria.

fled violence in
They now live in a
UN-supported camp
in Maradi, southern
Niger.
Credit: OCHA/Giles
Clarke

OCHA supported humanitarian partners to
reach 966,200 people (76 per cent of the
targeted population) with food assistance
across the country from January to 30 September 2019. In parallel, OCHA facilitated $6 OCHA adapted to a volatile environment by
million from CERF through its underfund- redirecting and pooling resources, including
by closing its Zinder presence and opening

25

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

Making lives better

new sub-offices in Maradi and Tillaberi.
Government forces conducted multiple military operations, and the state of emergency
limited the movement of people and vehicles
in conflict-affected areas. Therefore, OCHA
advocated for the respect of humanitarian
principles and the protection of affected
populations. It allocated $16.9 million from
CERF to support response efforts in Niger.

severe in the world. It was characterized by
grave violations of humanitarian and human
rights law, including killings, gender-based
and sexual violence and forced displacement.
In 2019, 7.1 million people – more than one
in two people in the BAY states, including
1.8 million IDPs – needed humanitarian assistance, the vast majority in Borno State.

In 2019, access to people in need reduced
significantly and humanitarian space shrank
due to ongoing insecurity and bureaucratic impediments. Twelve aid workers were
killed in 2019, twice the number in 2018,
while two female aid workers remained in
the captivity of non-State armed groups.
As of December 2019, more than 1 million
people were considered inaccessible by humanitarian agencies in the BAY states. In
addition, in Adamawa, farmer-cattle herder
clashes intensified, forcing people to move,
OCHA Niger had 47 staff (36 national, 11 in- and seasonal floods affected more than
ternational), a main office in Niamey, sub-of- 250,000 people in the BAY states.
fices in Diffa, Maradi, Tahoua and Tillaberi,
OCHA strengthened field coordination in
and a temporary office in Ouallam.
Local Government Areas, supported the
development of a 90-day emergency plan
Nigeria
to respond to the most urgent needs of
new arrivals in Borno State, and coordiThe humanitarian and protection crisis in nated contingency, preparedness and reBorno, Adamawa and Yobe (BAY) states in sponse planning for the 2019 elections and
north-east Nigeria remained one of the most floods response. Following the military’s
suspension of two key international NGOs
in September 2019, OCHA provided a platform for collective action and leadership to
enable the timely resumption of the NGOs’
activities. The Nigeria Humanitarian Fund
allocated $26.7 million for humanitarian
action in the country.

Dramatic floods not seen in 100 years affected more than 250,000 people, destroyed
19,000 houses and flooded nearly 8,000 hectares of agricultural land, further exposing
people to food insecurity, malnutrition and
epidemics. OCHA monitored the implementation of the HCT strategy for emergency
response preparedness, and it consulted
with regional and national early warning
systems to inform decision-making.

People in Rann
town, Borno State,
Nigeria, storing and
processing the little
food they had left
following flooding
in November 2019.
Credit: OCHA/
Leni Kinzli

Five years into the humanitarian response
in north-east Nigeria, OCHA maintained a
presence in Abuja and the BAY states with
69 staff (46 national, 23 international).

26

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Regional Office for the Middle East
and North Africa (ROMENA)

ing period, the office supported strategic
dialogue between the Ministry and OCHA
headquarters regarding the UAE’s approach
to humanitarian financing.

Armed conflicts and political instability
continued to afflict the Middle East and
North Africa (MENA) region. The region also
witnessed a sharp increase in sudden-onset natural disasters, including flooding,
droughts, sand and dust storms, avalanches,
landslides and earthquakes.

ROMENA comprised 28 staff (20 national,
8 international), including HATs in Georgia,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, covering Central Asia. It also manages liaison
offices in Abu Dhabi, UAE (1 international
staff member), and Doha, Qatar (1 national
staff member).

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

In 2019, ROMENA provided surge support
to six offices to help emergency response
efforts in ongoing crises. It deployed 11 staff
members on 20 missions for 439 days to
countries such as Iran, Jordan, Libya, Qatar, Tunisia, Turkey and the United Arab
Emirates (UAE).
ROMENA led the implementation of the
IASC Emergency Response Preparedness
approach in Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Morocco,
Tunisia and Turkey. The approach that aims
to increase the speed and volume of life-saving assistance delivered in the first four to six
weeks of an emergency had already been initiated in these countries. ROMENA worked
with various UNCTs and Governments to
strengthen emergency preparedness. The
process was completed in Algeria and Egypt Iraq
and handed over to the respective RC office
The situation in Iraq remained unstable,
for follow-up.
with 6.7 million people requiring humanIn 2019, ROMENA contributed to OCHA’s itarian assistance across the country.
overall advocacy efforts by managing the
global OCHA Twitter account in Arabic and OCHA coordinated humanitarian assistance
providing Arabic language support (trans- to 1.3 million people. In the second half of
lation and proofreading).
the year, humanitarian partners increased
the number of locations of affected people
The OCHA liaison office in Abu Dhabi en- they serve by 62 per cent.
gaged in high-level events and conferences
in the UAE, and with the Ministry of For- The 2019 HRP was more than 92 per cent
eign Affairs and International Cooperation, funded, making Iraq the top-funded appeal
which organized two training workshops. globally for the third consecutive year.
The liaison office also provided support to
colleagues on mission to the UAE, mainly The OCHA-managed Iraq Humanitarian
from the Yemen office and the Operations Fund (IHF) allocated almost $80 million
and Advocacy Division. During the report- towards the most urgent HRP priorities,

Children in Amara
district in Missan
governorate, Iraq,
where OCHA
assessed the extent
of the floods and the
ongoing response
in April 2019.
Credit: OCHA/Hilary
Stauffer

27

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Making lives better

targeting IDPs in and out of camps in un- World Humanitarian
derserved locations. OCHA promoted largescale, NGO-led consortium projects that Day honours women
included capacity-building components for humanitarians
national NGOs, as well as dedicated management resources for the consortium. The
IHF increased net funding to local partners To mark the tenth anniversary of World
by more than 10 per cent from 2018 in 2019 Humanitarian Day on 19 August 2019, the
to further support the localization agenda. UN honoured the contribution of women aid
OCHA helped to integrate gender and protection concerns across the response, as it
also provided training on the Gender with
Age Marker (GAM) and supported the protection from sexual exploitation and abuse
(PSEA) network.
Ahead of the 2019 HRP process, 245 people
were trained on the GAM in eight governorates. In preparation for the second standard
allocation of the IHF, more than 100 staff
were also trained on the GAM, PSEA and
accountability to affected populations.

ASG Mueller and

workers who are on the front lines in their
communities and dedicate their lives to support people in need across the world. OCHA
raised awareness of the day by showcasing 24
inspirational stories of 24 women humanitarians over 24 hours.
The #WomenHumanitarians campaign was
covered globally by 50 media organizations
and mentioned on social media by, among
others, UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina
Mohammed, Canadian Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau, Microsoft Corp., businessman
Richard Branson, comedian Ellen DeGeneres,
restaurateur Lisa Vanderpump, actress
Kristin Davis, model Lily Aldridge, and even
Pope Francis.

With 71 staff (48 national, 23 international),
OCHA maintained its presence in Iraq with
its main office in Baghdad, a regional office
in Erbil, and field sub-offices in Erbil, Duhok, The American stock exchange, Nasdaq, invited
Kirkuk and Ninewa, Al Anbar, Al-Sulaymani- OCHA to celebrate the campaign, with ASG
Mueller ringing the market’s closing bell.
yah and Salah Al-Din.

OCHA staff at the
Nasdaq MarketSite’s
closing bell in
New York.
Credit: Nasdaq

The campaign was covered globally by traditional media, including the BBC, financial news
network Cheddar, CNN International, business
media Fast Company, Forbes, India Today, Irish
Examiner, Special Broadcasting Service News
in Australia, USA Today and Xinhua. A common theme of the coverage was the powerful
role of women humanitarians and the positive
impact of having more women at every level of
the humanitarian response.

Jordan

Since the Syria crisis began, more than 1
million Syrians have fled into Jordan. This
has placed considerable strain on Jordan’s
social, economic, institutional and natural
resource systems. Of the 654,692 refugees
registered, 81 per cent live in host commu-

28

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Making lives better

nities, while the remaining 123,260 (19 per
cent) live in camps.

Lebanon

OCHA Lebanon continued to provide eviSince the border crossing between Jordan dence-based contextual analysis to inform
and Syria reopened in October 2018, some strategic discussions within the develop36,000 registered refugees have returned to ment and humanitarian communities. It
Syria from Jordan. The slow pace of returns advocated and regularly liaised with relecontributed to high levels of humanitarian vant authorities to resolve registration isneeds in Jordan. At the same time, politi- sues, work-permit applications and other
cal and economic pressures fuelled social administrative challenges in collaboration
tensions that played out through strikes, with the RC’s office and sector coordinators.
demonstrations and sit-ins.
Through its engagement with UN and
Within the UNHCR-led refugee response non-UN partners and support to existing
and the architecture for the humanitarian coordination under the RC/HC’s leadership,
response inside Syria, OCHA Jordan sup- OCHA continued to support mobilization for
ported the RC/HC in his engagement with funding, including via the Lebanon Humanthe Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan itarian Fund. In 2019, the fund allocated $11
and the Whole of Syria response. OCHA also million under three allocations: a standard
ensured that PSEA systems were in place allocation that targeted children at risk,
and functional. As a trusted partner of the people with special needs, the elderly and
HC and UNHCR, OCHA had a strong, con- people with mental illness; and two reserve
structive relationship with the Government allocations that supported a measles camof Jordan. OCHA also continued its central paign and the provision of cash to address
and operational liaison role with the Jor- the winter needs of Palestine refugees from
danian military and the International Co- Lebanon and Syria. The fund allocated 25
alition Forces.
per cent of its funding directly to Lebanese
NGOs ($2.6 million through seven projects
Approximately 12,000 Syrians remained and seven partners).
stranded at Jordan’s north-eastern border
with Syria at Rukban. Throughout the year, In a complex and unstable environment,
OCHA continued to support assistance pro- both regionally and internally, OCHA convision, advocate for durable solutions and tinued to lead collective preparedness and
push for direct access to these people. It sup- contingency planning efforts, working with
ported dialogue with the Jordanian military, national and local institutions, including
the International Coalition Forces and UN civil society. OCHA increased liaison and
partners to provide health care, water and civil-military coordination with the UN Inhygiene services from the Jordanian side terim Force in Lebanon.
of the border.
With 19 staff (13 national, 6 international),
The OCHA-managed Jordan Humanitarian OCHA supported the Lebanon response
Fund allocated $8.57 million to 31 projects through its office in Beirut.
that addressed urgent humanitarian needs
and key funding gaps.
Libya

OCHA Jordan had 15 staff (10 national, 5 inThe humanitarian situation deteriorated
ternational) based in Amman.
in Libya due to increasing conflict. Civilian
casualties and large-scale displacement
caused by active hostilities increased against

29

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Making lives better

south and east. OCHA’s sub-office in Sebha was supported by one international and
one national staff, while the international
staff were based in Tripoli for security reasons. OCHA’s sub-office in Benghazi was
supported by one international and two
national staff.
occupied Palestinian territory (oPt)

Students in
prefabricated
classrooms as
schools are rebuilt
in Tawergha, Libya.
The town was
devastated during
the Libyan conflict
between 2011
and 2015.
Credit: OCHA/
Intisar Alqsar

30

Violence, access restrictions and displacement were some consequences of the proa backdrop of continued political fragmen- tracted protection crisis in oPt that affected
more than 2 million Palestinians. Vulnerable
tation and economic decline.
households found it nearly impossible to
Internal displacement surged by 80 per cent cope with entrenched levels of food insecuin 2019 due to conflict, with 343,000 people rity, poverty and unemployment, along with
internally displaced across the country by inadequate access to essential services, such
the year’s end. More than 800,000 people as water, education and health care.
required humanitarian assistance in 2019.
In 2019, an estimated 2.4 million people out
Humanitarian operations reached more of oPt’s population of 5.2 million needed
than 400,000 people in 2019, including some aid. Humanitarian actors faced record-low
95,000 people affected by fighting in and funding levels, with ever greater challenges
around Tripoli.
to their ability to operate due to restrictions,
political considerations, and attacks deOCHA and its partners strengthened hu- signed to delegitimize humanitarian action.
manitarian assessments and analysis and
enhanced monitoring. OCHA Libya contin- OCHA oPt supported the HC to mobilize sysued to coordinate humanitarian prepared- tem-wide funding and ensure that pooled
ness and contingency planning and brought funds provided the greatest results for the
area-based coordination closer to affected most people possible. In April 2019, for expeople. It worked closer with central and ample, the ERC approved a CERF allocation
local authorities; fostered cooperation with of about $7.7 million through the underdevelopment partners; helped to build lo- funded-emergencies window. By the end of
cal counterparts’ capacity in emergency re- the year, the OCHA-managed humanitarian
sponse and preparedness; and encouraged pooled fund allocated $27.4 million to 62
the transfer of humanitarian coordination projects targeting more than 1 million people.
responsibilities to national actors.
The office developed localized emergency
OCHA continued to support humanitarian plans, largely in response to protection viofinancing for the Libya response. Contribu- lations affecting people injured during mass
tions to the HRP increased from 25 per cent in protests in Gaza and communities at risk of
2018 to more than 50 per cent in 2019. CERF forcible transfer in the West Bank.
made three allocations totalling $3.8 million.
These activities were carried out by 66 staff
With 30 staff (21 national, 9 internation- (52 national, 14 international) based in East
al), OCHA Libya maintained a presence in Jerusalem and four sub-offices in Gaza,
Tripoli and Tunis, with sub-offices in the Hebron, Nablus and Ramallah.

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Making lives better

plan and appeal, regular prioritization of
critical funding gaps, and common policies.
Some nine years into the Syria crisis, the The Gender Standby Capacity Project, Cash
humanitarian impact continued to affect and Markets Capacity Development Roster,
millions of people across the country. In PSEA Adviser and advisers from the Office
2019, 11.7 million people needed humani- of the United Nations High Commissioner
tarian assistance, including 5 million people for Human Rights supported the Whole of
in acute need.
Syria secretariat.
Regional Office for the Syria Crisis (ROSC)

ROSC in Amman continued to provide policy/strategic direction and administrative
services, and it convened functions in the
subregion. It provided Syria-specific support to humanitarian leadership in Syria, the
OCHA country offices that support the Syria
crisis (Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey),
and to humanitarian partners in Syria and
Turkey on operations.
OCHA’s Amman office backstopped the
OCHA Syria response offices and provided
representation and coordination with key
regional stakeholders in the Syria response
– UN Regional Directors, international NGOs
and donors. ROSC also enabled the work of
the Regional HC and supported regular leadership coordination, including the Strategic
Steering Group.

Residents at Al Hol
camp, Hasakeh
governorate, northeast Syria.
Credit: OCHA/
Hedinn Halldorsson

ROSC acted as the subregional hub for support to partners and other OCHA offices to
enhance the effectiveness and accountability
of the response.
ROSC had 25 staff (17 national, 8 international) based in Amman, Jordan.
Syria

Humanitarian actors inside Syria continued scaling up their response to address the
needs of more than 11 million people, including 6.1 million IDPs. Measuring response
outcomes reliably remained challenging,
but available data indicated that the humanitarian response in Syria is averting a
further degradation of humanitarian needs
and vulnerabilities in many places.

ROSC integrated intersectoral/thematic expertise into the six functional areas to ensure Aside from its role in negotiating the HRP,
a common needs analysis, one response OCHA Syria led or engaged in the develop-

31

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Making lives better

ment of various response plans to hotspots,
including for north-east Syria, Al Hol camp,
north-west Syria and Rukban. It played a
lead role in negotiating access to various
areas on behalf of the humanitarian community and to carrying out several inter-agency
assessments and convoys.

ERC Lowcock with
aid partners during
a mission in October
2019 to assess the
UN’s cross-border
relief operation
from Turkey into
north-west Syria.
Credit: OCHA/David
Swanson

in Lebanon, staff support reporting and
communication functions and donor liaison.
Turkey

OCHA Turkey supported common initiatives
to establish and strengthen regional systems
OCHA Syria continued its important role in enabling the Syria response to be strategic,
humanitarian advocacy and communica- principled and in line with assessed needs.
tions, raising awareness of crisis-affected With different parts of Syria controlled
people. It produced regular humanitarian by various parties to the conflict, the UN
updates on key developments to inform cross-border response was authorized to
humanitarian and donor decision-making. reach people in need by Security Council resolutions 2165 (2014), 2191 (2014), 2258 (2015),
OCHA also helped to facilitate the in-coun- 2332 (2016), 2393 (2017) and 2449 (2018). The
try response and ensure adequate moni- cross-border operation involving more than
toring of response efforts against severity 200 NGO responders, 2 international organof need. It mobilized $72 million (a 100 per izations and 12 UN system members was an
cent increase in funding) through the Syria estimated $1 billion.
Humanitarian Fund, and it supported the
country team in its risk management and In 2019, OCHA Turkey coordinated the
due diligence efforts to enhance transpar- cross-border humanitarian response, inency and contribute to confidence-building cluding the UN assistance authorized by
related to the response.
the Security Council and the larger NGO
humanitarian relief provided outside this
OCHA Syria delivered on all these activ- framework, estimated to represent 80 per
ities despite challenges securing visas for cent of the response. OCHA continued to
international staff, which limited staffing lobby and advocate with the Government
on the ground.
of Turkey on bureaucratic impediments and
cross-border access experienced by all huOCHA had 62 staff (52 national, 10 inter- manitarian actors based in Turkey.
national) based in its office in Damascus,
and three sub-offices in Aleppo, Homs and The Government remained a key stakeholder
Qamishly. It supported the area HCTs in the in the cross-border response, requiring dedvarious governorates where humanitarian icated support and engagement to ensure it
actors are present. From its back-up office was updated and sensitized to current needs.
OCHA Turkey had 43 staff (28 national, 15 international) and 1 international UNV based
in Gaziantep, with a liaison office in Ankara
to undertake day-to-day engagement with
Turkish authorities.
Yemen

In 2019, Yemen remained the world’s worst
humanitarian crisis. Conflict and economic
collapse meant that 24 million people need-

32

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Making lives better

ed some form of assistance, including 20.1
million who needed food aid. Humanitarian
partners reached an average of 13.7 million
people each month. The situation was exacerbated by a sharp deterioration in the
operating environment; in northern governorates, restrictions affected assistance for
6.7 million people, often resulting in long
delays or interruptions.
OCHA’s advocacy, access and deconfliction
functions were critical in helping people in
need. This helped to roll back catastrophic
levels of food insecurity in the most vulnerable districts. OCHA scaled up support
to the expanding relief operation, working
with 9 UN agencies, 82 national NGOs and
30 international NGOs.
CERF allocated $31.6 million and the Yemen
Humanitarian Fund allocated $239.4 million
to support the response.
By the end of 2019, OCHA Yemen had 96 staff
(60 national, 36 international). It is present throughout Yemen, with main hubs in
Aden, Al Mukalla, Hudaydah, Ibb, Sa’ada
and Sana’a. Smaller coordination centres
are supported in Al Mukha and Al Turbah.
Staff are also located in a support office in
Amman, Jordan. A small Riyadh-based team
focused on deconfliction, supporting all humanitarian operations and movements. It
ensured an information and advocacy link
between the HCT and representatives of the
Saudi-led coalition and the Government
of Yemen based in Riyadh and in the King
Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Center.

How one Yemeni baby
made it against all odds
At 18 months, Fawaz weighed just 4.7 kg. A
healthy newborn baby usually weighs between
3 kg and 4 kg. Fawaz was among 30 infants
being treated for malnutrition at El Sadaqah
hospital in Aden, Yemen.

OCHA photographer Giles Clarke, who followed Fawaz’s recovery from the end of 2018
to early 2019, recalled: “The first picture I took
of him shows his rib cage, the skin discolouration and the sadness on his face. I’ve been to
many malnutrition wards, not only in Yemen
but all over the world, and it’s always very difficult to see children in this state. What struck
me about Fawaz was that he seemed so stoic
and defiant.”

A recovered Fawaz
with his mother in
March 2019.
Credit: OCHA/Giles
Clarke

By then, Fawaz had been in the hospital for a
month with acute watery diarrhoea. He could
barely hold the therapeutic milk he received.
Fawaz, his parents and his three siblings had
fled raging conflict in the port city of Al Hudaydah a few months prior after their house was
destroyed in the fighting. In Aden, the family
took shelter in a school that hosted IDPs.
Because of a lack of food and poor sanitary
conditions, Fawaz’s health began to decline.
After a month of diarrhoea and vomiting, he
was admitted to El Sadaqah hospital.
This is the only hospital in Aden that provides
nutrition services. It was ransacked when
the war took hold in the spring of 2015 and
remained closed for a year during the battle
for Aden. The hospital is supported by several
aid organizations, including WHO, UNICEF,
International Rescue Committee and International Medical Corps.
After being treated for more than 60 days,
Fawaz returned home. His family continued to
receive support from the UN and its partners,
which helped his recovery.

33

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Making lives better

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Regional Office for Asia and the
Pacific (ROAP)

Girls whose
families have
been displaced by
violence in a village
near Kandahar,
Afghanistan.
Credit: OCHA/
Charlotte Cans

Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Sri Lanka
and Timor-Leste).

ROAP prioritized operational partnerships
through its extensive engagement in civAsia and the Pacific is the world’s most il-military coordination, including the
disaster-prone region, and millions of its 5th Regional Consultative Group on Civilpeople continued to require assistance and Military Coordination and a range of
protection. In 2019, disasters affected some Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster
55 million people, with 5,300 deaths. In 2019, Response exercises. In December, the Associthe region was host to one quarter of the ation of Southeast Asian Nations-OCHA road
world’s conflicts and several protracted map on interoperability was tested during
crises, with 3.3 million refugees and the an International Search and Rescue Adviworld’s largest refugee settlement in Cox’s sory Group Earthquake Response Exercise
in Chiang Mai, Thailand. Localization and
Bazar, Bangladesh.
support to NGOs and civil-society organiSixteen staff from ROAP were deployed zations were also top priorities, notably in
on 44 surge missions for 831 days to partnership with the International Council
Afghanistan, Bangladesh, the Democratic for Voluntary Agencies and the Asian DisasPeople’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), Myanmar ter Reduction and Response Network, which
and Pakistan. ROAP also provided out-of- hosted a Humanitarian Partnerships Week
region surge support to Burkina Faso, DRC, in November.
Venezuela, Yemen and Syria (Iraq operation),
the Bahamas and Mozambique.
In 2019, OCHA ROAP had 21 staff based in
Bangkok (3 national, 18 international) and
ROAP continued to support emergency HATs in DPRK, Indonesia and Japan.
preparedness using the Rapid Response
Approach to Natural Disasters in AsiaPacific, a regional adaptation of the global Afghanistan
IASC HPC and Emergency Response Preparedness guidance, implemented in 2016. Decades of conflict resulted in one quarter of
Support on contingency planning, simu- Afghanistan’s population (some 9.4 million
lation exercises, capacity assessments and people) requiring life-saving assistance by
other exercises was provided to 11 coun- the end of 2019. Throughout the year, OCHA
tries (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Afghanistan scaled up its operations to supIndonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, port increasing demand for humanitarian
action. Working with 147 humanitarian partners, it coordinated assistance to 6 million
people across almost 98 per cent of districts
(395 of 401) countrywide. This expansion
was partly due to the lingering impact of
the 2018 drought and the worsening conflict.
An IASC Peer-2-Peer mission in March-April
2019 reviewed the adequacy of humanitarian coordination arrangements and made
recommendations, including to increase
humanitarian actors’ accountability to the
affected population.

34

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

Making lives better

OCHA initiated a large-scale multi-stakeholder exercise to review coordination
challenges and opportunities at all response
levels. A Mutual Accountability Framework
between humanitarian agencies in Kabul
and the field helped to ensure that the humanitarian activities of operational partners became more accountable to crisis-affected people.
CERF and the OCHA-managed Afghanistan Humanitarian Fund disbursed a combined $80 million to 35 partners to provide
life-saving humanitarian assistance to 2.9
million people.
In 2019, OCHA Afghanistan had 80 staff (63
national, 17 international) and was based in
Kabul, with sub-offices in Herat, Jalalabad,
Kabul, Kandahar, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kunduz, and temporary offices in Faizabad and
Maimana. The Kunduz and Maimana offices
reopened in 2019 in response to increased
conflict-induced needs in the north and
north-east after their closure in 2017.

events during the Open Debate on Women
Peace and Security, and campaigns focused
on women for World Humanitarian Day
(see page 28).
OCHA helmed the first-ever thematic IAHE
on Gender Equality and the Empowerment
of Women and Girls on behalf of the IAHE
Steering Group.

Oslo Conference: Ending
sexual and genderbased violence in
humanitarian crises

Advancing gender equality
To strengthen collective action to advance
gender equality, OCHA increased its advocacy and programming to prioritize support
and assistance to women and girls, and the
mitigation, prevention of and response to
gender-based violence (GBV).
This included prioritizing funding under CERF
and CBPFs for programmes that focus on
women and girls. CERF allocated $23 million
to 34 projects focusing on GBV mitigation and
response activities in 2019, with additional
funding allocated to 267 projects that included
GBV components. OCHA’s 18 CBPFs allocated
$26.5 million to GBV-related projects.
Several high-level events organized during
the year amplified the needs and experiences
of displaced women and girls. These included the United Nations Economic and Social
Council’s Humanitarian Affairs Segment, side

ERC Lowcock with

In May 2019, OCHA, UNFPA, ICRC, civil-society
organizations, and the governments of Norway,
Somalia, Iraq and the UAE co-hosted the first
donor conference of its kind: ‘Ending Sexual
and Gender-Based Violence in Humanitarian
Crises’. It raised $363 million and hundreds
of political commitments to prevent GBV. The
conference also showcased collective action
to prevent GBV, aligned with the Call to Action
on Protection from Gender-Based Violence in
Emergencies, of which OCHA is a key partner. The ERC has asked humanitarian leaders, including HCs, to intensify their efforts
to address GBV.

Ine Eriksen Søreide,
Norway’s Minister
of Foreign Affairs,
at the Conference
on Ending Sexual
and GenderBased Violence in
Humanitarian Crises,
held in Oslo, Norway.
Credit: OCHA

35

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Making lives better

OCHA coordinated the humanitarian response to not only 128,000 mostly RohingThroughout 2019, humanitarian needs in ya IDPs confined in camps in Rakhine State,
Myanmar continued to be driven by factors but also to increasing numbers of people
including armed conflict, intercommunal displaced by conflict between the Myanmar
violence and vulnerability to natural haz- Armed Forces and the Arakan Army during
ards. Nearly 1 million people remained in 2019. This fighting resulted in civilian casuneed of humanitarian assistance by the alties and the displacement of tens of thouyear’s end, including about 275,000 IDPs, sands of people in Rakhine and southern
due to ongoing conflict in Rakhine, southern Chin states. OCHA continued advocating
Chin and northern Shan states, protracted for access to these areas with the provindisplacement in Kachin State and frequent cial- and Union-level officials and the rapid
scale-up of a robust multi-cluster response.
natural hazards.
Responding to an increasingly restrictive huIn Rakhine State, some 600,000 Rohingya manitarian access environment nationally
continued to face institutionalized discrim- formed a central pillar of OCHA’s work in
ination and several human rights violations this context. In Kachin and northern Shan
that compounded their vulnerability and, in states, protracted displacement and – in
many cases, deepened their dependency on the case of northern Shan – ongoing outhumanitarian aid.
breaks of fighting continued to drive needs.
Severe monsoon flooding affected much
of the country beginning in July, and humanitarian access deteriorated across key
operating areas.
Myanmar

Ismat, 15, a
Rohingya refugee in
Bangladesh.
Credit: OCHA/
Vincent Tremeau

In 2019, the Myanmar Humanitarian Fund
supported 40 projects, targeting 629,000
people with $15.5 million. More than half
of the funding was allocated to national
partners, which benefited mostly women
and girls across the country.
With 56 staff (45 national, 11 international),
OCHA Myanmar provided support to the
Government and the humanitarian community through its main office in Yangon
and sub-offices in Myitkyina (covering
Kachin State), Sittwe (covering Rakhine
and Chin states), Lashio (covering northern
Shan State) and a liaison unit in the capital,
Nay Pyi Taw.

One Day, I Will
“One day, I would like to become a doctor,”
Ismat, a 15-year-old Rohingya from Myanmar
and resident of a refugee camp in Bangladesh,
told OCHA photographer Vincent Tremeau. “I
would like to treat Rohingya people, Bangla-

36

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

Making lives better

deshi people, all kinds of people. When I was
10 years old, back in Myanmar, I had to stop
going to school. I hope one day I will be able to
continue my studies.”
Ismat was among 33 girls who shared their
aspirations as part of the photo exhibition
‘One Day, I Will’. OCHA organized the exhibition
to highlight education’s crucial role in securing the safety and future of girls in humanitarian crises.
Aged between 6 and 18, the girls dressed up to
show who they want to be when they grow up,
using costumes and props from their immediate surroundings. By tapping into the girls’
visions for their future, the exhibition at UN
Headquarters in New York provided visitors
with a unique glimpse into their circumstances
and challenges.

the response to the environmental hazard
caused by a ship grounding and the subsequent oil spill at Rennel Island.
In 2019, the Office of the Pacific had six staff
(four national, two international), three
UNVs (one international, two national) and
one Solomon Islands-based Humanitarian
Affairs Officer. ROAP provided support for
emergency surge missions and technical
engagement as/when needed. The Office
of the Pacific surged staff during the year to
Mozambique and Samoa to support ongoing
cyclone responses and the measles outbreak.
Pakistan

In 2019, OCHA continued supporting the humanitarian community in ensuring a principled, timely and coordinated response to
Office of the Pacific
assist returning IDPs in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) and the KP tribal districts, and to
Based in Fiji, the Office of the Pacific focused drought and an earthquake elsewhere. Huits support on the most five disaster-prone manitarian operations remained focused on
countries in the region: Fiji, Samoa, Solomon supporting the Government in the returns of
Islands, Tonga and Vanuatu. It coordinated more than 3 million displaced people to the
emergency responses; supported operation- KP tribal districts. OCHA support included
al readiness; fostered strategic and opera- facilitating assessments, producing analytitional partnerships with national, regional cal information products and implementing
and international actors; and supported the 2019 humanitarian component of the
Governments in building their coordination Transition Plan for the former Federally Adand information management capacities. ministered Tribal Areas.
OCHA’s support to the Pacific Humanitarian
Team, comprising UN agencies, NGOs, the Five million people continued to experience
International Federation of Red Cross and the impact of the 2018 drought in Sindh and
Red Crescent Societies and other human- Balochistan in 2019. More than 1.2 million of
itarian agencies, strengthened collective the affected people received humanitarian
approaches to preparedness and response. aid by the end of 2019. The Government-led
response was supported by an HCT drought
OCHA was pivotal in coordinating support response plan that focused on recovery, refor an emergency response to a measles out- silience and long-term development.
break in Samoa, through CERF. In February
2019, OCHA supported the National Disaster OCHA continued to support the National
Management Office in Micronesia regarding Disaster Management Agency and provinthe production of information management cial authorities in their preparedness and
products following Tropical Cyclone Wutip. response. This support contributed to a huBetween February and June 2019, the office manitarian service – the Punjab Emergency
assisted the Solomon Islands National Dis- Service (Rescue 1122) – being classified by the
aster Management Office in coordinating International Search and Rescue Advisory

37

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Group, making it eligible for deployment to
international emergencies.

ments to prepare two Humanitarian Needs
and Priorities documents.

CERF and the Pakistan Humanitarian Pooled
Fund (PHPF) disbursed a combined $19 million to provide life-saving humanitarian
assistance to 462,000 people affected by
drought, while the PHPF supported an additional 220,000 IDP returnees in KP. Some
68 per cent of PHPF funding in 2019 was
channelled to NGOs.

OCHA led preparation for CERF’s rapid response allocation of more than $3 million
for a multisector emergency response that
aimed to cover the life-saving needs of earthquake-affected people in Mindanao.

The HC and the HCT prioritized implementing the HCT Protection strategy, which included examining sustainable solutions
OCHA Pakistan had 30 staff (25 nation- to housing, land and property issues by
al, 5 international) based in Islamabad, engaging additional experts from the Prowith sub-offices in Balochistan, Pesha- tection Standby Capacity Project to advise
war and Sindh.
the HCT. The HCT also adopted the PSEA
Country-Level Framework, which outlines
priority results areas for HCT members.
Philippines

OCHA had 25 staff members (22 national, 3
Thousands of people are living in protract- international) based in Manila and Cotabato
ed displacement due to decades of internal City on Mindanao.
armed conflict and instability in the country’s southern island of Mindanao.
In 2019, the Philippines faced several
health-related crises, including a dengue
epidemic, measles outbreak and a resurgence of polio.
The country’s proximity to the Pacific
“typhoon belt” and “ring of fire” makes it
prone to typhoons, floods, earthquakes and
volcanic eruptions. They affect hundreds of
thousands of people each year, such as the
374,000 people impacted by the 6.9-magnitude earthquake that hit Mindanao on 15
December 2019.
As part of its preparedness activities, OCHA
led the development of a protocol for a midscale tropical cyclone scenario, as well as a
model for a Common Framework for Cash
and Voucher Assistance. It also organized capacity-building in information management
for humanitarian and Government partners.
OCHA coordinated HCT partners’ response
activities to augment the Government’s capacity. It also led two rapid needs assess-

38

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Making lives better

LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Regional Office for Latin America and the
Caribbean (ROLAC)

In 2019, floods, drought and seasonal storms
continued to impact the entire region, most
notably the Caribbean and Andean regions.
This created new dynamics that required
the full scope of OCHA’s tools and services.
These dynamics included escalating population movements, mainly out of Venezuela and Central America (with more than 8
million displaced people across the region),
and chronic violence and food insecurity in
Central America driven by inequality and
drought. People’s vulnerability increased
due to civil protests associated with political
tensions in Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Haiti,
and the continued fragile peace consolidation in Colombia.

Honduras to better target people affected
by the chronic violence. It supported CERF
allocations worth $7 million to help the
drought response in that same region.

UN SecretaryGeneral António
Guterres views
Marsh Harbor from
a Dutch helicopter in

In Cuba, to help 253,000 people affected by
a tornado, ROLAC supported a CERF allocation of more than $1.9 million.

Hurricane Dorian, the most powerful category 5 Atlantic hurricane to make landfall,
devastated the Bahamas. OCHA established
ROLAC covered 42 countries and territories coordination mechanisms with the nationin Latin America and the Caribbean and sup- al and Caribbean authorities. This forced
ported OCHA country offices in Colombia, OCHA to work in a new setting – in a strong
Haiti and Venezuela.
middle-income country without a UN presence and traditional humanitarian partners.
In Venezuela, ROLAC started the year by
training emergency responders in the Na- In 2019, ROLAC had 32 staff (25 national, 7
tional Directorate of Civil Protection, and international), including 9 staff based in
ended with a fully staffed OCHA country RC offices in Bolivia, Ecuador, El Salvador,
office and the first Humanitarian Needs Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and Peru. ROOverview and HRP, appealing for $223 mil- LAC staff were deployed to 23 countries for
lion and targeting some 7 million people. 115 missions and 1,149 days of deployment.
ROLAC support was critical for establishing
Venezuela’s HCT, activating eight clusters,
and setting up operational coordination Colombia
hubs in Ciudad Guyana, Maracaibo and
San Cristobal.
In 2019, shifting armed conflict and violence
dynamics in some departments of Colombia
In Central America, ROLAC monitored hu- increased the humanitarian needs of affectmanitarian needs and advocated for assis- ed communities. The living conditions and
tance to mass displacement movements of physical and mental well-being of many
more than 60,000 people from northern people worsened, threatening their lives and
Central America towards the southern bor- dignity. OCHA helped to coordinate the deder of the United States. ROLAC provided a livery of assistance and protection services
UN-led initiative with information manage- to more than 620,000 people out of the 1.3
ment services to support three peacebuild- million people targeted by the 2019 HRP and
ing funds in El Salvador, Guatemala and the 5.1 million people in need.

Great Abaco Island,
Bahamas, to witness
the devastation
caused by category
5 Hurricane Dorian.
Credit: UN/OCHA/
Mark Garten

39

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Making lives better

OCHA provided an $8 million allocation
from CERF’s underfunded-emergencies
window to support the humanitarian response in Arauca, Chocó, Nariño and Norte
de Santander, working with local coordination teams comprising local authorities and
humanitarian organizations.

An older person in
the seaport town
of Les Cayes, Haiti.

Haiti

In 2019, Haiti suffered a deteriorating economy and a particularly unstable sociopolitical
situation. As a result, the number of people
requiring humanitarian assistance increased
by 80 per cent during the year. However, a
worsening security situation, decreasing
The ASG/DERC’s visit to Colombia in March capacity and low funding significantly af2019 strengthened advocacy and highlight- fected humanitarian organizations’ ability
ed the fact that despite the Government’s to deliver aid.
efforts to reach the most vulnerable, many
communities continued to suffer the con- This coincided with the UN transition
sequences of armed conflict and natu- from a peacekeeping to a special political
ral disasters.
mission, and a resulting loss of access to
analysis and security support. Despite
OCHA continued to coordinate the efforts of these challenges, OCHA worked with some
UN agencies and NGOs to complement the 70 humanitarian partners and coordinatGovernment-led response. This included ed assistance targeting 1.3 million people
undertaking Multi-Cluster/Sector Initial across the country. More than 455,000 of
Rapid Assessments in Cauca and Nariño those people were reached during the first
for joint multisector assessments of emer- nine months of the year.
gencies caused by floods and armed conflict.
OCHA continued working closely with the OCHA’s priorities in 2019 included supportVictims’ Unit and the National Disaster Risk ing the Directorate of Civil Protection to preManagement Unit on response coordination pare for the hurricane season that started on
and information management.
1 June. It helped humanitarian partners to
overcome the access challenges and ensure
With 18 staff (17 national, 1 international) the availability of accurate information on
and 3 UNVs, OCHA Colombia supported hu- the situation on the ground. OCHA helped
manitarian response by working with the to elaborate an evidence-based Humanitarlocal coordination teams and OCHA’s two ian Needs Overview and a well-prioritized
sub-offices in Chocó and Norte de Santander. HRP for 2020.

Credit: OCHA/
Christian Cricboom

OCHA Haiti directed funding towards the
most urgent priorities in 2019. CERF allocations supported the cholera response
($5 million), food security ($5 million) and
logistics ($1 million) to allow humanitarian
actors to continue their operations despite
enormous access challenges.
OCHA Haiti continued downsizing in 2019,
with plans to transform into a HAT by 2021.
By the year’s end, there were 13 staff (10 national, 3 international) based in Port-auPrince. To assist in data collection on the
humanitarian situation in the regions, OCHA
established a network of Humanitarian Focal Points in the field.

40

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

Making lives better

OCHA managed humanitarian financing
instruments to direct funding towards the
Ukraine
most urgent priorities. The Ukraine Humanitarian Fund (established in February
Five million people continued to deal with 2019) attracted $7 million in new funding,
the profound consequences of six years of ac- including from non-traditional donors.
tive conflict in the affected eastern Ukraine. CERF provided $6 million for essential serSome 3.4 million of these people needed vices for conflict-affected communities in
humanitarian assistance and protection. GCA and NGCA.
In 2019, OCHA worked with more than 130
partners to coordinate the humanitarian OCHA had 43 staff (33 national, 10 interresponse to reach 1 million conflict-affected national) to support the response through
people on both sides of the “contact line” in a national office in Kyiv and subnational
Government-controlled areas (GCA) and offices in Kramatorsk and Sieveredonetsk
non-Government-controlled areas (NGCA). (GCA) and in Donetsk and Luhansk (NGCA).
Due to limited funding and the lack of humanitarian access, only half of the targeted
Helping Albania
population was reached.
EUROPE

Increasing access was a priority in 2019. Subnationally, OCHA developed strong relationships in the NGCA to maintain and increase
access to the affected people, supporting
efforts for the renewal of working arrangements and maintaining information-exchange mechanisms on humanitarian operations. Nationally, OCHA co-facilitated an
HCT Access Task Force that assessed access
challenges on both sides of the “contact line”.
OCHA implemented several decisions taken
by the humanitarian and country teams to
strengthen the collaboration between development and humanitarian organizations
in order to reduce people’s needs, risks and
vulnerabilities and increase their ability to
cope with shocks. These included creating a forum; developing six thematic case
studies articulating what the achievements
in this area mean in practice; and consolidating and analysing humanitarian and
development data.

recover from its worst
earthquake in decades
On 26 November 2019, a 6.4-magnitude
earthquake struck north-western Albania,
affecting the cities of Tirana and Durres.
Fifty-one people were killed in the earthquake,
which was the strongest to hit Albania in more
than 30 years.
Eight experts from the United Nations Disaster
Assessment and Coordination (UNDAC)
system spent five weeks supporting an EU
Civil Protection Team and the Government of
Albania in the response efforts.
Two UNDAC experts arrived in Albania the day
after the quake to help the EU team assist the
local government with its response.
The experts worked closely with the Urban
Search and Rescue Coordination Cell in Durres
to organize needs-assessment missions. They
also helped local authorities and NGOs on the
ground to identify displaced people.

To support the HC, OCHA facilitated the reform of the HCT to increase accountability of
individual HCT members for humanitarian
action, to tighten membership to enhance Five more UNDAC experts deployed in Decemstrategic decision-making and to adopt ber. They established a Damage Assessment
Coordination Cell that focused on assessan HCT Compact.
ments and humanitarian coordination.

41

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Digital platforms
The impact of data
OCHA’s Humanitarian Data Exchange (HDX)
is an open platform for sharing data across
crises and organizations.
In 2019, its sixth year of existence, the number
of people visiting the platform to find and use
data about humanitarian crises increased significantly. By the end of the year, HDX included
17,315 data sets from 250 organizations, ranging from Facebook Data for Good, Humanity &
Inclusion, and the World Food Programme.
The amount of data downloaded from HDX
grew by 42 per cent, from 127,968 data sets
in December 2018 to 181,930 data sets in
December 2019. More than 700,000 people
from almost every country visited the site
during the year.
The HDX team developed several interactive
data visualizations that were integrated with
other OCHA platforms, including unocha.org,
ReliefWeb and Humanitarian InSight. HDX
data informed decision-making and advocacy on topics ranging from flood response in
Somalia to attacks on education in Africa and
the Middle East.
HDX added a new ‘Data Grid’ feature in May
2019 to help users understand what data is
available and missing across the top humanitarian crises. The Data Grid prioritizes core
data into six categories, such as food and
nutrition, and health and education. By the end
of 2019, just over 50 per cent of relevant data
was available for 14 humanitarian operations.
HDX is managed by OCHA’s Centre for
Humanitarian Data in The Hague. The Centre
falls under OCHA’s Information Management
Branch. HDX team members worked with
consultants based in The Hague, Geneva, New
York, Nairobi, Dakar, Jakarta and Copenhagen.

42

INFORM expands the
analysis it provides to the
humanitarian community
INFORM is a global, open-source risk assessment for humanitarian crises and disasters.
During 2019, it expanded its analysis to the
humanitarian community.
It developed and added two products to its
portfolio – a Severity Index to measure the
severity of existing crises globally, and a tool
to collate early warning information.
Since 2013 INFORM has published a global
Risk Index, which is now a well-established
indicator that influences the resource allocation processes of agencies and donors. With
these three products, INFORM will support
decision-making across the crisis-management cycle, from prevention to preparedness
and response.
INFORM functions as a partnership of humanitarian and development organizations, donors
and technical experts that OCHA coordinates
at a global level. Development, humanitarian
and other actors manage risk and respond
better together when crises occur.
For OCHA, INFORM represents an alternative
approach to analysis. Rather than just producing an analytical product, OCHA brings together partners to agree on a process and develop
a common method to analyse crises. That
way, it can reduce the investments required by
individual organizations, assure the quality of
the available analysis and make it available for
the common good.

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Advocacy at the highest level
“Let’s not ask in a year’s time how can we help people who
have lost their crops. Let’s ask what we can do now to mitigate
the likely drought in Southern Africa and floods in the Horn.
If we manage to move in that direction, we will get a response
that is faster, cheaper and more dignified. One that protects
hard-won development gains. One that deals with problems
before they arise and where they arise.”
—Mark Lowcock,
United Nations Under-Secretary-General for
Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator
London School of Economics, 2 December 2019

“There is a lot of satellite imagery illustrating the impact of the
fighting on towns and villages in southern Idleb over the last
three months. If, for example, you compare satellite photos
of Kafr Nabutha, a town in southern Idleb, taken at the end
of April and again at the end of June, which is what analysts
at UNOSAT – the UN body with capacity in this area – have
done, what you see is a level of destruction consistent with a
bombing campaign aimed at a scorched earth policy.
Almost every building destroyed in a three-month period.
Such satellite imagery has shown 17 entire villages almost
completely destroyed and emptied.”
—Mark Lowcock,
United Nations Under-Secretary-General for
Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator
Briefing to the UN Security Council on Syria, 30 June 2019

43

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Making lives better

“Too few humanitarian operations fully recognize or respond
to the specific needs and voices of women. And too little
funding is provided to advance this work.
On the peace operations side, women are still largely
marginalized from peace agreement discussions or
negotiations, despite universal understanding that the only
pathway to sustainable peace is an inclusive one.
And when women are brought to the table, too little thought
goes into ensuring diverse groups of women are represented.”
—Ursula Mueller,
United Nations Assistant Secretary-General for Humanitarian
Affairs and Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator
United Nations, New York, 30 October 2019

“The crisis has also torn deeply at the country’s social fabric.
Of the 1.7 million Iraqis who remain internally displaced
as a result of the conflict, many feel unable to return to
their communities. Homes have been destroyed, and
neighbourhoods are contaminated with explosive remnants
of the conflict. Many of the displaced feel a lack of social
cohesion in their areas of origin or perceive these areas
to be unsafe.”
—Ursula Mueller,
United Nations Assistant Secretary-General for Humanitarian
Affairs and Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator
Member States briefing, New York, 10 July 2019

44

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

Making lives better

OCHA’s role in the Inter-Agency
Standing Committee

The IASC is the global humanitarian coordination forum that brings together the Heads
of UN, NGO, and Red Cross/Red Crescent
Movement entities. The IASC is chaired
by the Head of OCHA, the Emergency Relief Coordinator.

Ensuring the inclusion of
people with disabilities
People with disabilities and their families often pay the highest price in conflicts and other
humanitarian crises.
In November 2019, the IASC launched its first
inter-agency guidelines on the inclusion of persons with disabilities in humanitarian action.
The guidelines were the result of three years of
six regional and online consultations involving more than 600 stakeholders, including
several organizations representing people with
disabilities.

According to WHO, 1 billion people – or about
15 per cent of the world’s population – are
living with disabilities. If no other data are
available when humanitarian organizations,
Governments and affected communities plan
the crisis response, the guidelines recommend
they work under the assumption that 15 per
cent of the affected people have a disability.

Isaiah,* with a vision
impairment, was
among hundreds of
thousands of people
displaced during the
crisis in the Englishspeaking parts of
Cameroon in 2018.
They continued to

The guidelines are key to supporting the implementation of the UN Disability Inclusion Strategy, which the UN Secretary-General launched
in June 2019 as part of his commitment to
make the Organization inclusive for all. Starting in 2020, UN entities and country teams
will measure and track their performance with
respect to disability inclusion.

need assistance
in 2019.
Credit: OCHA/
Giles Clarke.
*

Name changed to

protect identity.

OCHA was involved, together with others, in
the discussions that led the Security Council
to adopt in June 2019 its first-ever resolution
(S/RES/2475) on the protection of persons
with disabilities in armed conflict. The
resolution requests the Secretary-General to
include information and recommendations
on issues relevant to persons with disabilities
in the context of armed conflict in thematic

45

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

Making lives better

and geographic reports and as part of regular
briefings to the Council.
Attention to the specific needs of people with
disabilities in humanitarian action was also
significantly strengthened through the enhanced HPC approach launched in 2019. Analysis by OCHA’s Centre for Humanitarian Data
showed that the main difficulties in accessing
services for people with disabilities stem from
high costs and inaccessible environments.

Protection from sexual
exploitation and abuse and
sexual harassment
In 2019, the IASC implemented a strategy to
create an environment in which people caught
up in crises can access the protection and
assistance they need without fear of exploitation or abuse by any aid worker. The IASC
published a document of good practices that
provide better assistance and protection for
victims and survivors, strengthen accountability and encourage victims to speak up. The
document is intended to harmonize initiatives
across the humanitarian system.
OCHA advocated strengthening the IASC Six
Core Principles Relating to Sexual Exploitation
and Abuse, which were revised to include
the prohibition of sexual relations between
humanitarian workers and anyone benefiting
from humanitarian assistance and protection.
By the end of the year, PSEA coordinators
were deployed to more than half of the 34
countries with ongoing humanitarian operations. PSEA coordinators are responsible for
leading inter-agency networks, ensuring that
safe and accessible reporting systems are
in place, and establishing links with GBV and
child-protection referral services.
In September, the UN High Commissioner for
Refugees, Filippo Grandi, was designated the
IASC Champion on Protection from SEA and

46

Sexual Harassment. He announced a threepronged focus on bolstering prevention, expanding safe spaces and promoting respectful
use of authority.
OCHA’s $1 million fund to provide investigation capacity to IASC partners to strengthen
accountability in response to allegations of
misconduct became operational in 2019. It
disbursed funds to national and international
NGOs in Africa and the Middle East.
OCHA took a whole-of-organization approach
throughout the year to strengthen internal policies, systems and practice, and to align efforts
with system-wide approaches coordinated
by the UN Special Coordinator on improving
the UN response to SEA and the UN Victim
Rights Advocate. OCHA strengthened training
and awareness for staff and implementing
partners, and it created an intranet site to
facilitate access to curated policies, guidance
and good practice.
OCHA continued to participate in Clear Check,
a system-wide secure online centralized database to prevent the recruitment of sexual misconduct offenders. Through the IASC, OCHA
promoted links with the broader Inter-Agency
Misconduct Disclosure Scheme to prevent
transgressors from re-employment within the
entire humanitarian sector, including NGOs.

Promoting gender equality
The IASC advanced the work on gender equality in humanitarian action in several ways:
•	 The GAM, a tool for designing and monitoring humanitarian interventions, was rolled
out and used by UN agencies and international and national NGOs in more than 8,000
projects. The GAM replaced the 2015 IASC
Gender Marker.
•	 The 2018 IASC Gender Accountability Framework report, prepared in 2019, marked the
first monitoring cycle of the IASC’s Gender
Equality and the Empowerment of Women

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

Making lives better

and Girls in Humanitarian Action Policy,
which was endorsed in 2017.
•	 The Gender Standby Capacity (GenCap) project is hosted by OCHA. It aims to strengthen inter-agency capacity and leadership to
deliver on commitments to gender equality
and women’s empowerment in humanitarian action through guidance, tools and
expertise. In 2019, the project deployed 15
GenCap advisers.

Gender Standby Capacity
Project advisers
make a difference
In 2019, GenCap advisers worked with different clusters and sectors to advocate for gender analysis, and it trained actors in applying
gender dimensions in assessments. The links
between the humanitarian and development
work were strongly supported by GenCap to
promote solutions that increased overall effectiveness and a holistic response.
For instance, in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh, sectors and partners improved how they collect
and use gender- and age-disaggregated data
to estimate and even identify how many women, girls, boys and men are affected by specific
needs and problems, and then to target them
with appropriate support. Specifically, in the
water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) sector,
the collection and use of such data in knowledge, attitude and practices surveys, qualitative surveys, household surveys and post-distribution monitoring has informed decisions
to engage women and girls in the design of
WASH facilities; assessments to better understand barriers to latrine access; and initiatives
to better understand sociocultural practices
and barriers to menstrual hygiene management and culturally acceptable materials.

points, including national organizations. The
group has maintained gender mainstreaming
effectiveness and sustainability following the
Adviser’s departure.

Integrating mental
health and psychosocial
support in response
One person in five living in a conflict zone has
some form of mental disorder, according to
WHO. To make mental health and psychosocial support (MHPSS) an integral part of the
humanitarian response, the Dutch Minister
for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation hosted an international conference in
Amsterdam in October 2019. As a participant,
USG Lowcock highlighted the Guidelines on
Mental Health and Psychosocial Support in
Emergency Settings, which could help improve
the aid community’s response. The conference resulted in establishing a secretariat to
support follow-up to the outcomes and participants’ commitments.
In their December 2019 meeting, the IASC
Principals agreed to treat MHPSS as a
cross-cutting issue that is relevant in all emergencies within health, protection, nutrition,
education and CCCM sectors/clusters. They
expressed support for the creation of and the
work of country-level MHPSS Working Groups
in all migration, refugee and humanitarian
contexts as cross-cutting groups.
The Principals decided to reflect MHPSS
indicators in relevant planning documents
and establish dedicated budget lines, as well
as specific MHPSS codes within financial
tracking systems. An MHPSS monitoring and
accountability framework and an inter-agency
MHPSS Minimum Services Package in Humanitarian Settings are being developed.

The GenCap Adviser successfully established
a gender hub in Cox’s Bazar, an inter-agency working group with trained gender focal

47

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Getting ahead of crises:
Anticipatory approaches
“A response that is faster, cheaper and
more dignified. One that protects hardwon development gains. One that deals
with problems before they arise and
where they arise.”
—Mark Lowcock, 2 December 2019

A

cting earlier and faster before a
disaster strikes saves lives, reduces suffering and is more dignified.
It also protects hard-won progress
made in critical areas, such as achieving universal food security and poverty reduction,
supports better programme planning and
design, and cuts response costs. Investing
in anticipatory approaches to humanitarian
needs has a good return on investment.

To build support for anticipatory approaches,
OCHA focused on the following:

TRADITIONAL RESPONSE
& ANTICIPATORY ACTION

Early action by the Government, donors and
humanitarian agencies helped keep 1 million
Somalis a step away from starvation. This included two CERF rapid allocations totalling
$42 million for life-saving efforts. OCHA, the
World Bank and the HCT also rolled out the
first system-wide humanitarian anticipatory action framework for drought (see page
49). After Cyclone Idai hit Mozambique in
March 2019, OCHA supported a cholera vaccination campaign to immunize more than
800,000 people within weeks, effectively
containing the outbreak and preventing a
possible epidemic.

TRADITIONAL RESPONSE
Needs
assessment
Planning and
prioritization
Mobilizing and
allocating funding

ANTICIPATORY ACTION
Forecasting and
decision-making
model

48

In 2019, OCHA continued to advocate for
anticipatory approaches to humanitarian
needs. With humanitarian and development
partners, OCHA worked on humanitarian
interventions that enable the most vulnerable people, including women, children and
people with disabilities, to better cope with
imminent shocks.

Established
action plans

Pre-arranged
ﬁnancing

System-wide, collective anticipatory action:

In 2019, OCHA supported early humanitarian action in several vulnerable countries that experienced climate-related and
other shocks.

OCHA also supported humanitarian action
before disaster strikes. This anticipatory
approach is built on the work of many humanitarian agencies, including the Food and
Agriculture Organization, the World Food
Programme, International Federation of Red
Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) and
Start Network.

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

Making lives better

In 2019, OCHA began supporting tools with
a potential to predict disease outbreaks. One
such tool is the Global Cholera Risk Model,
an approach funded by the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration and led
by researchers at the University of Maryland
and the University of Florida. Using climate
and vulnerability data, the model can provide up to four weeks of advance warning
of an impending outbreak in areas as small
as 250 m x 250 m. This gives humanitarian
agencies time to focus on outbreak-prevention efforts, such as hygiene promotion and
water treatment.

Greater risk sharing with the private sector:

OCHA supported the World Economic Forum’s Humanitarian Investing Initiative,
which aims to establish a market for additional investment capital to benefit the
people and communities affected by fragility
and crises while generating returns. OCHA
also helped to identify investment opportunities for the private sector, such as through
catastrophe bonds, which provide cash to
Governments immediately after a disaster.

OCHA continued to increase its knowledge
base of anticipatory approaches through
OCHA also brought together humanitarian multi-stakeholder processes such as the
agencies to develop system-wide anticipa- Dialogue Platform on Anticipatory Action
tory action frameworks for sudden-onset and engagement with the Risk-informed
disasters such as floods.
Early Action Partnership (REAP). Launched
in September 2019 by the Government of
Bangladesh, REAP was created by the United
Disaster risk insurance:
Kingdom, Finland and IFRC in collaboration
with academic institutions and think tanks
With climate change, natural disasters are to protect 1 billion more people through fibecoming more frequent, intense and de- nancing and delivery mechanisms that can
structive. Disaster risk insurance can provide act ahead of predicted disasters and crises.
fast and predictable payouts. It also raises
people’s awareness of risk. Expanding coverage can make a significant difference in pre- Somalia:
venting shocks from becoming humanitarian crises. To advocate for greater insurance Anticipatory action
coverage, OCHA worked with sovereign risk framework for drought
pools, including the African Risk Capacity
and the Insurance Development Forum.
Pre-agreed contingency financing:

Contingency financing can give countries
access to grants or loans at concessional
rates to finance emergency response and
reconstruction. OCHA supported the World
Bank in developing the first-ever strategy to
address the drivers of fragility, conflict and
violence in affected countries. OCHA helped
to shape the Bank’s Crisis Response Window
to be a tool of first resort instead of a last one.

The impact of droughts in Somalia can be
predicted up to six months ahead of time with
increasing certainty due to advancements in
data and predictive analytics.
OCHA, the World Bank and the HCT developed
a crisis risk financing mechanism to respond
to extreme droughts. When a severe drought is
forecast, CERF funds are released to support
efforts to help people withstand its impact.
These efforts include distributing drought-tolerant or short-season seed varieties to sustain
food production, and providing supplementary
fodder to livestock.

49

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Humanitarian financing
In 2019, OCHA worked with a range of financ- understand where funding is needed, thus
ing instruments, mechanisms and partners enabling better allocation decisions.
to help meet growing humanitarian needs.
OCHA’s Financial Tracking Service (FTS)
records all reported humanitarian contriFundraising for crisis response
butions (cash, in-kind, multilateral and bilateral) to emergencies. FTS provides daily
n 2019, more people needed human- updated data, increases the transparency
itarian assistance than forecast due and accountability of humanitarian action,
to more frequent and intense climate and informs real-time decision-making at
change-related natural disasters, national and global levels. In 2019, OCHA
conflict and disease. At the launch of the continued its targeted donor outreach to
Global Humanitarian Overview (GHO) for promote timely financial reporting. It also
2019, held in December 2018, a projected promoted new FTS features, particularly
$28 billion was required to help 103 million those relevant for the collection and analysis
people in 52 countries. By the end of 2019, of data related to the Grand Bargain committhat amount had increased to $30 billion ments on earmarking, multi-year allocations,
for nearly 118 million people in 57 countries. localization and cash-based response, and
Donors’ response was generous, with record an improved compliance with the Internacontributions to coordinated response plans tional Aid Transparency initiative.
and the OCHA-managed CBPFs and CERF.
To help aid organizations raise funds to
OCHA mobilizes funding for organizations provide assistance, OCHA co-hosted four
included in coordinated humanitarian plans. pledging and resource mobilization events
At the country level in 2019, OCHA helped in 2019. These included the Syria and the
partners assess needs and build common Region Conference in Brussels ($9.4 billion
strategies and programmes that are the basis pledged, of which $7 billion was for 2019 –
of crisis-specific response plans. These plans an increase of $2.6 billion compared with
prioritize actions, lay out clear objectives for the amount pledged the previous year; the
humanitarian action and facilitate resource remainder was for 2020/21); the Yemen Conmobilization. They are also the framework ference in Geneva ($2.6 billion pledged, of
for monitoring and tracking assistance de- which more than 80 per cent was committed
livered to affected people. In 2019, donors at the end of 2019); the Ending Sexual and
channelled about $18 billion through in- Gender-based Violence Conference in Oslo
ter-agency coordinated response plans.
($363 million pledged, of which $226.2 million was for activities in 2019); and the CERF
At a global level, these plans are included High-Level Pledging Event ($439 million
in the GHO, which OCHA publishes every pledged for 2020). In addition to mobilizing
December to provide the humanitarian financial resources, these events enabled
community with a comprehensive and ev- high-level operational and policy discusidence-based assessment of humanitarian sions, including with civil society.
needs, requirements and humanitarian
trends for the year ahead. In December 2019,
OCHA launched the 2020 edition simulta- Financing to reduce needs, risks and
neously in five locations – Geneva, Berlin, vulnerability
Brussels, London and Washington, D.C.
OCHA promotes more coherent coordiOCHA also tracks and publishes online the nation, planning and financing processes
level of donor funding to humanitarian cri- with development partners. This includes
ses worldwide. This helps donors to better supporting development-system reforms

I

50

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

Making lives better

to unlock greater development investment
in protracted emergencies and conflict-affected contexts. In 2019, OCHA supported
the UN Joint Steering Committee’s roll-out
of joined-up activities between humanitarian and development actors in seven pilot
countries (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad,
Ethiopia, Niger, Nigeria and Somalia). The
activities aim to meet immediate needs
while reducing future vulnerabilities.
OCHA also identified early action measures that reduce humanitarian needs and
alleviate pressure on limited resources. For
example, in 2019 OCHA-supported advocacy based on early warning signs of harvest
failure in Somalia led to earlier donor support and a major reduction of Somalis at
risk of starvation. OCHA played a critical
role in advancing system-wide anticipatory
approaches to risks and needs to promote
humanitarian action before needs manifested. Building on partners’ work, OCHA took a
lead role in coordinating the humanitarian
system to make anticipatory action work at
scale (see Anticipatory Action on page 48).

The vision for
crisis financing
OCHA encourages new, more effective funding
and financing mechanisms that respond to and
reflect the changing nature of humanitarian
crises. In December 2019, USG/ERC
Lowcock delivered a speech titled ‘Anticipation Saves Lives: How data and innovative financing can help improve the world’s
response to humanitarian crises’.

•	 Release contingency funding from UN financing mechanisms and multilateral banks
when disasters strike, rather than after.
•	 Expand risk sharing with the private sector.
•	 Ensure complementarity of development
and humanitarian action.
•	 Release humanitarian financing faster and
earlier (see Anticipatory Action on page 48).
•	 Learn lessons from innovation and experimentation.

POOLED FUNDS

OCHA continued to ensure more responsive, predictable and strategic humanitarian financing for the humanitarian system
through its leadership of OCHA-managed
pooled funds: CERF, a global fund that aims
to provide early funding immediately after
sudden-onset disasters or to underfunded
crises anywhere in the world; and CBPFs,
which aim to support a faster and better-targeted humanitarian response in the country
in which they are based.
These funds allow donors to make resources
available directly at the front lines of the
emergency response, channelling funding to
the best-placed responders at the right time.
In 2019, donors channelled more than $1.5
billion – the highest amount ever – through
the funds to help deliver a stronger collective
response, covering critical gaps and ensuring
maximum impact of limited resources.

Because the funds are fast (decisions can be
made within hours) and allocation strategies
The speech built on the vision he presented
are decided by humanitarian leaders on the
in his 2018 address titled ‘A Collective Call
ground, CERF- and CBPF-financed activities
towards Innovation in Humanitarian Financing’. support the most urgent and strategically
In the 2019 instalment, he highlighted sevimportant humanitarian activities at a given
eral ways to improve humanitarian financtime, often in fast-changing contexts.
ing, including:
•	 Increase the use of insurance products to
have funds available when crises happen.

CERF and CBPFs complement other humanitarian funding sources, such as bilateral
contributions. The funds can be used in-

51

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Making lives better

dependently, but they work in synergy and
complement other funding at the country
level. By leveraging the funds’ comparative
advantages – their disbursement speed and
the ability to effect strategic change in the
field – partners can deliver a stronger collective response, ensuring maximum impact of
limited resources.

deliver life-saving assistance whenever and
wherever crises hit.

CERF has a $1 billion annual fundraising
target, and its funding is fully unearmarked.
During emergencies, humanitarian organizations on the ground jointly assess and
prioritize needs and apply for CERF grants.
Funds are immediately released if proposals
Allocations from OCHA-managed pooled meet CERF’s Life-Saving Criteria, i.e. the
funds constituted a relatively small portion needs are urgent and the proposed activities
of global humanitarian funding in 2019. will save lives.
However, their strategic value and focus
on the most urgent needs of crisis-affected
people meant they had a much wider impact CERF in 2019
on the delivery of timely, coordinated and
principled assistance.
For the third consecutive year, CERF received
record-high pledged contributions, amounting to $834.6 million, of which $831.6 milPOOLED FUNDS AS A PERCENTAGE
OF GLOBAL HUMANITARIAN
lion was received by 31 December 2019. The
SPEND BY YEAR
pledged contribution for 2019 is $276 million
higher than the contribution received in 2018
CERF
Other
CBPFs
and only $165.4 million short of the $1 billion
humanitarian
annual funding target endorsed by the UN
funding*
General Assembly.
23.8
23.8B

22.5B

The significant increase in the 2019 funding level is due to the exceptionally generous contributions received in December, totalling $390.8 million. This means a
high carry-over will be available for programming in 2020.

US$20.4B

CERF +
CBPFs =
US$1.3B
6.6%

US$1.5B
6.3%

US$1.8B
7.9%

2017

2018

2019

During the year, CERF allocated $538.7 million to humanitarian operations in 49 countries and territories, the highest amount
in its history.

With $338.8 million allocated from its rapid
response window, CERF was quick to respond throughout the year, helping partners
Central Emergency Response Fund
in 34 countries to immediately kick-start
relief efforts. For example, CERF quickly reCERF is one of the fastest and most effec- leased $4 million to boost response efforts
tive ways to enable urgent life-saving hu- in Burkina Faso in March, when a surge in
manitarian action for crisis-affected people attacks and intercommunity violence triganywhere in the world. It pools contribu- gered a humanitarian emergency. And just
tions from donors worldwide into a single days after cyclones Idai and Kenneth swept
fund, allowing humanitarian responders to through Southern Africa in March and April,
CERF supported rapid responses with $34.4
Total humanitarian funding as reported to FTS.

*

52

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

Making lives better

million to save lives and support survivors
across the Comoros, Malawi, Mozambique
and Zimbabwe.
As a global fund, CERF has the unique ability
to support regional responses to emergencies. For example, it provided $45 million
to immediately scale up critical support to
1.8 million drought-affected people across
Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia after two consecutive failed rainy seasons. CERF support
is also critical in helping partners react
quickly when crises threaten to spill over
borders. For example, on top of $9.8 million for the Ebola response in DRC, the fund
also released $10.5 million in February to
help neighbouring Burundi, Rwanda, South
Sudan and Uganda prepare for a possible
Ebola outbreak.
CERF’s added value in fighting and containing epidemics early was demonstrated
when a measles outbreak threatened Samoa
and neighbouring islands in the Pacific in
December. A $2.7 million allocation helped
partners provide emergency vaccinations,
obstetric and neonatal care for mothers
and newborns infected with measles, and
a life-saving public health information campaign targeting 1.25 million people.
When underfunding jeopardized the delivery of humanitarian assistance in neglected
crises, CERF funding was critical to enable
humanitarian organizations to sustain
life-saving operations. During allocations in
April and September, CERF released a record
$199.9 million to assist more than 14.5 million people in protracted and underfunded
emergencies across 23 countries. This included support for humanitarian agencies in
Afghanistan and Cameroon to carry out programmes that would have otherwise stalled.
CERF was critical in advancing innovation
in humanitarian financing, particularly in
driving proactive approaches to responses
based on anticipated risk (see Anticipatory
Action on page 48).

CERF ALLOCATIONS TO DISEASE
OUTBREAKS BY
EMERGENCY TYPE
Cholera
US$8M (24%)
Other animal or
plant emergency
US$0.5M (1%)
US$

Other health
emergency
US$0.7M (2%)

33.9M

Ebola
US$20.3M (60%)

Measles
US$4.4M (13%)
AGENCY
UNICEF

US$14.5M

WHO

12.2M

IOM

3.3M

WFP

1.6M 4.7%

UNHCR

1.5M 4.4%

FAO

42.9%

36.1%

9.8%

500k (1.5%)

UNFPA

100k (0.3%)

UNDP

100k (0.3%)

SECTOR
Water and Sanitation
US$10.7M (31.6%)
Agriculture
US$0.5M (1.5%)
Nutrition
US$0.1M (0.3%)

US$

33.9M

Health
US$21M (61.9%)

Common Services
and Coordination
US$1.6M (4.7%)

Country-Based Pooled Funds

CBPFs fund humanitarian partners in ongoing operations in countries affected by
natural disasters and conflict. They allow
donors to pool their contributions into single, unearmarked funds to support national
humanitarian efforts for a specific country.
In 2019, with the launch of the newest fund
in Ukraine, OCHA managed 18 CBPFs in
some of the world’s most severe crises. The

53

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

Making lives better

target funding level for CBPFs is set at 15
per cent of the funding received by corresponding HRPs in the preceding year, which
amounted to a combined $1.71 billion in 2019
(based on 2018 HRP funding levels).

for example, CBPFs improved aid delivery in
hard-to-reach areas by providing direct funding to Syrian NGOs with reliable access inside
the country. And in South Sudan, more than
a quarter of the $10 million flood-response
allocation in late 2019 went directly to national
NGOs operating in the worst-affected areas.

Funds are allocated through an inclusive
and transparent process to support some
of the key priorities set out in crisis-specific
HRPs. This ensures that funding is prior- COUNTRY-BASED POOLED FUNDS
itized in-country by decision makers closest ALLOCATIONS BY PARTNER TYPE
to people in need. Funds are directly available to national and international NGOs,
3.1
UN agencies and Red Cross/Red Crescent
organizations.
2.8
CBPFs in 2019

US$1.02B

Combined, CBPFs received a record $946
million in contributions from 34 donors in
2019. Funding went to locally prioritized
programmes for maximum impact. A record $1.02 billion was allocated to more than
1,600 humanitarian projects in 18 countries,
targeting 27.5M million people with health Access to CBPF funding allowed humanicare, food aid, clean water, shelter and tarian organizations on the ground to adapt
other assistance.
and tailor solutions to emerging challenges,
including in Yemen, where CBPF funding
The funds empowered humanitarian lead- maintained emergency health services for
ership, allowing HCs to directly support some 100,000 people and GBV survivors
and drive the most critical components of until longer-term funding was available.
humanitarian responses, including activities that improve the ability of organiza- CBPFs were invaluable in volatile contexts
tions on the ground to deliver more effec- with rapidly shifting situations, including
tively. For example, in DRC this included in South Sudan, where funding for the UN
support for information management and Humanitarian Air Service helped humanitarsharing across groups of UN and non-UN ian organizations to reach and rapidly scale
organizations.
up aid and protection support for people in
hard-to-reach locations.
With allocations to 758 relief organizations
in 2019, CBPFs ensured greater inclusivity CBPF funding helped humanitarian partners
by involving a broad range of partners in to better time, plan and adjust humanitarprioritization and programming processes. ian responses in 2019. One example is the
Some 25 per cent of allocations ($253 mil- pre-positioning of emergency relief items
lion) went directly to national NGOs, lever- in the Gaza Strip in oPt in anticipation of
aging their proximity and access to affected floods and escalating violence. The CBPF
people and making better use of their local in Afghanistan funded the establishment
knowledge and social networks to deliver to of a toll-free humanitarian hotline to allow
the most vulnerable communities. In Syria, IDPs, returnees and other vulnerable people

54

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

Making lives better

to access information and provide feedback
about the humanitarian response, which
helped improve its efficiency.

Four steers for funding
In early 2019, the ERC asked RCs and HCs in
countries with ongoing humanitarian operations to leverage funding from CERF and
CBPFs to support four strategic areas that
remained chronically underfunded: support
for women and girls, including tackling GBV,
reproductive health and empowerment;
programmes targeting people with disabilities; education in protracted crises; and other
aspects of protection.
Using CERF and CBPFs to increase focus on
the four priority areas is also expected to leverage attention to these underfunded areas at
the global level.

an inter-agency Training of Trainers organized
in the local language to deepen knowledge
about accountability among aid workers and
equip them with the tools and skills necessary
to train others in a cascading manner.
The Afghanistan CBPF supported the implementation of “Awaaz”, a primary accountability
mechanism in the form of a toll-free call centre. Awaaz facilitates a two-way information
flow between affected people and humanitarian workers. At full capacity, Awaaz can
communicate directly with 4,000 Afghans per
month calling from anywhere in the country.
In 2019, any Afghan with access to a mobile
phone could speak with one of eight operators in Dari, Pashto, Urdu or English to access
information or provide feedback on ongoing
humanitarian interventions around the country.

CBPFs: Supporting
systematic community
engagement and
accountability
In the past two years, CBPFs have funded
several projects dedicated to strengthening
the humanitarian aid system’s collective
AAP. OCHA has also ensured that all funded
projects include an AAP element. By the end
of 2019, 94 per cent of all projects included
AAP, for example through accessible and
functioning community feedback and/or complaint mechanisms.
A range of UN agencies and international
NGOs implemented the projects, which included mechanisms to provide feedback, hotlines,
information centres and accountability platforms, and efforts to strengthen SEA response.
The humanitarian community also sought to
improve AAP by training aid workers. For instance, in Gaziantep, Turkey, OCHA supported

55

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

Making lives better

ALLOCATIONS BY COUNTRY AND FUNDING MECHANISM

CBPF

CERF
Rapid Response

Yemen
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Syria Cross Border
South Sudan
Somalia
Ethiopia
Afghanistan
Iraq
Sudan
Syria
Sudan
Central African Republic
occupied Palestinian territory
Mozambique
Nigeria
Uganda
Pakistan
Myanmar
Niger
Cameroon
Bangladesh
Zimbabwe
Malawi
Haiti
Chad
Lebanon
Venezuela
Burkina Faso
Ukraine
Jordan
Kenya
Colombia
Zambia
Lesotho
Angola
Mali
Venezuela RRMC
Democratic People's Republic of Korea
United Republic of Tanzania
Djibouti
Madagascar
Libya
Philippines
Honduras
Comoros
Congo
Samoa
Burundi
Eritrea
El Salvador
Cuba
Guatemala
Iran
Rwanda
Bahamas

$239.40M
77.59
115.88
81.16
53.41
60.83
63.78
77.88
58.43
52.65

$31.67M
13.94

CERF

CERF
Underfunded
Emergencies

$31.75M

27.93
49.87
21.11
16.00

29.36
39.30
27.41

14.00
7.75

28.95
26.69
8.89
15.46

4.30
10.28
3.49
8.95
5.24
14.11
13.35
6.14

17.99

7.99
16.30
10.10

5.02
10.98

10.96
4.00
2.99
8.56

10.02
6.01
6.00

8.01
7.99
7.99
7.85
6.34
6.00
6.00
6.00
1.24

5.99
4.00
5.00

3.76
3.07
3.00
2.99
2.99
2.71
2.38
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.99
1.97
1.80
1.00
1

56

TOTAL

$271.07 M
123.28
115.88
109.09
103.28
81.94
79.78
77.88
58.43
52.65
43.37
39.30
35.16
28.95
26.69
22.30
19.17
18.95
16.94
16.30
15.34
14.11
13.35
11.15
10.98
10.96
10.02
10.01
8.99
8.56
8.01
7.99
7.99
7.85
6.34
6.00
6.00
6.00
5.99
5.25
5.00
3.76
3.07
3.00
2.99
2.99
2.71
2.38
2.00
2.00
2.00
1.99
1.97
1.80
1.00

Regional Refugee and Migration Crisis.

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Strengthening OCHA

STRENGTHENING
OCHA
After far-reaching reforms over the course of two years,
OCHA continued to emerge as a more field-focused and
decentralized entity. It moved ahead with the SecretaryGeneral’s reform agenda.

57

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

Strengthening OCHA

Decentralization

I

n 2019, OCHA moved ahead with its decentralization strategy for operational
and financial reasons. The approach was
in line with the Secretary-General’s reform agenda to become more field-focused,
and it reflected OCHA’s ambitions to improve the reach of its coordination services
by relocating some Headquarters-based
functions closer to points of delivery. In
doing so, OCHA aimed to provide more direct and timelier field support to partners,
while making the most of its extrabudgetary income by pursuing more cost-effective
opportunities.
This phase of decentralization included
planning to relocate capacity from the
OCHA Coordination Division, Information
Management Branch, Strategic Communications Branch and Executive Office. The
functions identified for decentralization
directly support global field operations
and include civil-military coordination;
humanitarian-development collaboration;
needs assessments and response planning;
situational awareness; and evidence-based
advocacy campaigns.

These functions will be part of an expanded
presence in The Hague and the establishment in 2020 of an office in Istanbul to extend the reach of field-facing tools, services
and expertise normally provided by Headquarters to OCHA operations worldwide.
After a thorough review, The Hague and Istanbul were selected for expansion due to
their operational and cost-efficient advantages. The locations were determined to offer
excellent telecommunications, well-connected airports and a wealth of partnership
opportunities, with The Hague serving as a
humanitarian data hub, and Istanbul being
close to the majority of OCHA operations
across the Middle East and Africa.
Several administrative functions at Headquarters were relocated to regional offices for
human resources and procurement capacities to more closely support field managers,
including managing the roll out of UN Sec-

58

retariat-wide delegations of administrative
authority. In 2019, 8 posts – part of 65 posts
at Headquarters identified for decentralization – were relocated to 4 regional offices.
The estimated savings from the decentralization of these posts, which represent about
14 per cent of Headquarters-based posts, are
expected to be reinvested into capabilities
and capacities dedicated to make OCHA
more fit for purpose in the new humanitarian environment, enabling more field
missions and better tailored services for
field offices. Additional opportunities will
be explored to relocate capacities and services to these and other locations that are
cost-effective, operationally beneficial and
serve the field.

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

Strengthening OCHA

OCHA ORGANIZATIONAL CHART

UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL AND
EMERGENCY RELIEF COORDINATOR
OFFICE OF THE
UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL
ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
SENIOR ADVISER ON
INTERNAL DISPLACEMENT
STRATEGIC
COMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Design and Multimedia Unit
Media Relations Section

ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
FOR HUMANITARIAN
AFFAIRS AND DEPUTY
EMERGENCY RELIEF
COORDINATOR

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
STRATEGY, PLANNING, EVALUATION
AND GUIDANCE SECTION
GENDER UNIT

Public Advocacy and Campaigns Section

COORDINATION
DIVISION

HUMANITARIAN
FINANCING & RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION DIVISION

OPERATIONS &
ADVOCACY DIVISION

IASC secretariat

POOLED FUNDS
MANAGEMENT BRANCH

Humanitarian Leadership
Strengthening Section

Central Emergency Response
Fund secretariat

Central Asia, Pakistan, Afghanistan,
Latin America and the Caribbean,
Ukraine and Asia and
the Paciﬁc Section

System-wide Approaches and
Practices Section

Country-Based Pooled
Funds Section

ASSESSMENT, PLANNING
AND MONITORING
BRANCH

PARTNERSHIPS & RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION BRANCH

Humanitarian-Development
Peace Collaboration

External Relations
and Partnerships Section

INTER-AGENCY
SUPPORT BRANCH

Needs and Response
Analysis Section
Monitoring and
Tools Section

OAD Geneva Section

Southern and Eastern Africa
(Africa I) Section
Middle East and North Africa
(MENA) Section
West and Central Africa
(Africa II) Section

Donor Relations Section

Humanitarian Financing Strategy
and Analysis Section

RESPONSE SUPPORT
BRANCH
Emergency Response Section
Civil-Military Coordination Service

EXECUTIVE
OFFICE

INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT BRANCH

Administrative Oversight Section

Centre for Humanitarian Data

Human Resources Section

Digital Services Section

Budget and Finance Section

Field Information Services Section

Supply Management and Travel Section

Information Services Section

POLICY BRANCH
Intergovernmental Policy
Section
Policy Advice and
Planning Section
Policy Analysis and
Innovation Section

59

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

FUNDING

FUNDING
Only a small percentage of OCHA’s annual programme budget
is funded from the UN Regular Budget. The CERF and CBPFs
are entirely funded by donor contributions. OCHA remains
reliant on voluntary contributions to implement its mandate.

60

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

FUNDING

Programme Budget reflects donors’ continued confidence in OCHA’s internal
n 2019, 94 per cent of OCHA’s pro- reform, fiscal discipline and operational
gramme activities were funded by vol- performance.
untary contributions. Approximately 6
per cent of funding came from the UN Besides the Programme Budget, an additionRegular Budget, which is paid from assessed al $9 million was received for OCHA-mancontributions from UN Member States.
aged activities implemented in partnership
with other organizations, such as the nationAt the beginning of 2019, OCHA’s extrabudg- al UNDAC mission accounts held with OCHA,
etary programme budget was $249.9 million the Protection and Gender Standby Capacity
and increased to $259.6 million by the end Project rosters, the Connecting Business inof the year. The budget increase was neces- itiative and the Humanitarian Data Centre
sary to meet growing coordination needs in in The Hague. As these are pass-through
Afghanistan, DRC (including for the Ebola contributions, they are not counted as inresponse), Sudan, South Sudan, the Sahel, come to OCHA’s extrabudgetary programme.
Venezuela and Yemen. OCHA continued
to carefully monitor its budget against income. Fiscal discipline was maintained, for FIELD PROPORTION OF OCHA’S
example, by offsetting some of the budget PROGRAMME BUDGET TREND
increases required for worsening crises
through reductions in other operations or
headquarters costs. The proportion of the
budget for field operations increased durFIELD XB BUDGET
67%
71%
ing the year, from 74 to 75 per cent of total
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)
extrabudgetary requirements.
PROGRAMME BUDGET

I

PROGRAMME AND POOLED FUNDS INCOME
27%

HQ XB BUDGET
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)

23%

Donor income for all three strands of OCHA
6%
6%
REGULAR BUDGET
activities (programme, CERF and CBPFs)
reached a record level in 2019, passing the 2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
$2 billion mark, up from $1.78 billion in 2018.
This was due to the exceptionally high level
of funding ($834.6 million) received by CERF,
compared to $558.6 million in 2018. OCHA EXTRABUDGETARY BUDGET:
also raised a record $948 million for CBPFs, FIELD VS. HQ BUDGET (US$)
of which $567 million was administered by HQ ACTIVITIES
FIELD ACTIVITIES
$194.6M
OCHA and $381 million by the UN Develop- $65M
25%
75%
ment Programme/Multi-Partner Trust Fund
(see pages 80-81). Extensive information
on where and how funds were used can be
found in the funds’ respective annual reports,
available on the OCHA website.
OCHA received $270.5 million for its extrabudgetary programme budget that covered not only all its requirements, but also
some 2020 requirements. A fully funded

61

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

FUNDING

To cover its indirect costs, OCHA charges
programme support costs of 7 per cent on
its extrabudgetary programme activities, 3
per cent for other pass-through grants, and
2 per cent on CERF and CBPFs.
OCHA’s income in 2019 was exceptional
not only in terms of volume but in terms
of predictability, flexibility, timeliness
and diversity.

$22.3 million as softly earmarked contributions (for a regional crisis or thematic issue).
(See page 65 on the use of flexible funding in
2019.) In addition, the $834.6 million in contributions to CERF are fully unearmarked,
while the $948 million in contributions to
CBPFs are softly earmarked.
Timeliness

Timeliness of payment is an important element for effective cash management to cover
extrabudgetary activities. Over a third of all
OCHA benefited from a predictable and donor income to OCHA’s programme budget
stable income of $113.7 million from mul- was received during the first quarter of the
ti-year agreements with 18 donors. Twelve year, up from 29 per cent in 2018, and 52 per
new or renewed agreements were signed in cent was received during the first six months.
2019 with Australia, Canada, the European OCHA thus benefited from a stable cash and
Union (EU), Germany, Finland, Ireland, the liquidity situation throughout the year.
Netherlands and New Zealand (two agreements with the EU and with Germany for
earmarked contributions to country offic- Diversity
es; three agreements with Canada for unearmarked funding, UNDAC, and regional Over the year, OCHA received contribucoordination in the Middle East). Likewise, tions for its programme, CERF and CBPFs
the CBPFs benefited from multi-year agree- from the European Commission and a rements with 15 donors for a combined annual cord 68 Member States, up from 63 in 2018.
value of $387 million. CERF had multi-year Fifty-five Member States contributed to
agreements with Australia, Canada, Iceland, CERF, 33 Member States contributed to
Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New CBPFs, and 42 Member States and the EuZealand, Norway, Qatar and Sweden for an ropean Commission contributed to the programme. OCHA also received contributions
annual value of $257.2 million.
from the private sector (United Parcel SerOCHA’s strong and long-standing relation- vice Foundation), regional and municipal
ships with the OCHA Donor Support Group authorities, and individuals.
(ODSG) members also ensure consistent income year on year. ODSG members provided The larger number of donors and increased
nearly all of OCHA’s global income in 2019. geographic diversity in the ODSG is encouraging, but OCHA continues to rely on a small
group of donors for the bulk of its funding.
Flexibility
The top three donors to OCHA’s programme
contributed 45 per cent of all income, and
In 2019, donors gave $121.3 million, or 45 per the top 10 donors contributed 78 per cent
cent of programme income, as unearmarked of all income.
funding. This is not as high as the record
amount of flexible income in 2018 ($130
million), but it remains an unusually high
proportion compared to other humanitarian
agencies. Donors also gave an additional
Predictability

62

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

FUNDING

EARMARKING TRENDS – TOTAL (US$)

250
200

2019
$121.3M

UNEARMARKED

TOP DONORS – UNEARMARKED AND
EARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)

United States
Sweden

150

United Kingdom

100

Germany

EARMARKED

Saudi Arabia

50

Norway

0

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

European Commission
Canada
Qatar
Netherlands

EARMARKING TRENDS – PERCENTAGES

Australia
Switzerland

EARMARKED
55%

58%

Belgium
Japan
Denmark

42%

UNEARMARKED
45%

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

TIMELINESS OF DISBURSEMENT
100%

HEADQUARTERS
$45.6M
39.4%

COUNTRY OFFICES
$53.9M
46.6%

75%
3RD QUARTER

REGIONAL OFFICES

2ND QUARTER

FLEXIBLE
IMPLEMENTATION

50%
25%

2016

FINAL DISTRIBUTION OF
UNEARMARKED FUNDING (US$)

2017

2018

2019

$5.6M
4.8%

(CARRIED THROUGH
2020)
$10,6M
9.2%

ALLOCATED

HQ

43%

FIELD
57%

CARRIED
THROUGH
2020

Note: The difference between unearmarked income ($121.3M) and
unearmarked income that was allocated ($115.7M) is due to: a) recorded
income of $2.5M unpaid as at 31 December 2019; b) difference in the
exchange rate between the date the agreement was signed and the date the
payment was received.

63

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

FUNDING

PROGRAMME EXPENDITURE

OCHA’s implementation rate in 2019 was
98 per cent under the extrabudgetary programme budget, continuing the trend from
the previous year for OCHA to operate at
nearly full capacity.
CASH OPERATING BALANCE

OCHA ended 2019 with a programme closing
balance of $188.4 million, including $130.4
million kept as operational cash balance (up
from $111.5 million for the previous year);
$15.5 million already allocated for programming; $38.46 million in balances (including
$6.4 million in pledges) from earmarked and
unearmarked projects to be implemented in
2020; and $4 million as contingency funds
to cover sudden-onset emergencies.
OCHA needs an operating cash balance of at
least $114 million at the beginning of each
year to advance about $63 million to field
offices and headquarters in anticipation of
cash to be received from donors during the
year. OCHA also needs to advance $51 million
to the UN Development Programme every
year to cover the salary liabilities of national
staff and UNVs for the entire year.

OCHA Donor
Support Group
Created by Member States in 1998 as
a “Group of friends”, originally with seven
members, the OCHA Donor Support Group
(ODSG) includes 29 members. It is a sounding
board for a range of issues related to policy,
programme and finance. Membership criteria
include the commitment to provide continued
and substantial financial support to OCHA,
and the willingness to provide political support
to implement UN General Assembly resolution
46/182. In 2018, ODSG members provided
99.6 per cent of OCHA’s programme income.

64

DIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES (US$)
Field-based
humanitarian coordination

190.4 M 74.0%

Direct HQ support
for ﬁeld coordination

35.1M 13.6%

Communication and
information management

11M 4.3%

Executive direction
and management

6.9M 2.7%

Policy and
normative development

5M 1.9%

Humanitarian
ﬁnancing support

4.9M 1.9%

Programme
common cost

3.3M

1.3%

One-time costs

0.7M

0.3%

DIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIVITIES (US$)
Administrative
activities

19.1 M 53.5%

Humanitarian
ﬁnancing support

12.8M 35.9%

Communication and
information management

3.8M 10.6%

120
CLOSING BALANCE
BREAKDOWN (US$)
105
90

OPERATIONAL
CASH
$130.40M
69.23%

75
60
EARMARKED &
UNEARMARKED
FUNDS

(INCLUDING $6.35M
UNPAID PLEDGES)
$38.45M
20.42%

45

CONTINGENCY
FUNDS
$4.00M
2.12%

30
15
0

OTHER

(NON-PROGRAMMABLE)
$15.51M
8.23%

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

FUNDING

Thanks to its flexible nature, unearmarked
funding can be used several times during a
What is flexible income?
budget cycle, thus achieving a “multiplier
effect.” For example, if unearmarked fundFlexible income consists of unearmarked ing is allocated to kick-start a response to a
and softly earmarked contributions, which sudden-onset disaster, any unused portion
give OCHA full or partial flexibility to use can be moved to address funding gaps in
funds based on operational requirements. other operations once earmarked funding
Funds are considered unearmarked when is received for the response.
they are for OCHA’s overall activities, with
no limitation for use in any specific office or Unearmarked and softly earmarked funds
project. Softly earmarked contributions are play a unique role in OCHA’s cash-flow
typically restricted by donors for use in a ge- management, and they reduce transaction
ographic region or regional crisis. Examples costs associated with having to deal with
of softly earmarked funding include the Syr- overlapping and/or cumulative restrictions
ia crisis and natural disasters with a regional on the use of funds. This enhances OCHA’s
impact, such as cyclones Idai and Kenneth in administrative efficiency.
Southern Africa. Softly earmarked funds can
also be used for a global programme. OCHA
can then decide to allocate funds to any of- Flexible funding received in 2019
fice or activity within the geographic region.
OCHA received a generous amount of flexible funding for its programme, including
Why is it important?
$121.3 million in unearmarked funding and
$22.3 million in softly earmarked funding.
OCHA is fully reliant on voluntary contri- Thirty-two donors contributed unearbutions to fund its operations and has his- marked funding, 11 of which also contribtorically received a substantial portion of uted softly earmarked funding, and an
its income as unearmarked income. More additional two donors contributed softly
than any other form of support, unear- unearmarked funding.
marked funding is critical to OCHA’s ability
to allocate funds where and when they are The top donors of unearmarked funding in
needed. OCHA primarily relies on its staff 2019 were the United Kingdom ($25.8 milto work with other UN agencies, national lion), Sweden ($21.2 million), Norway ($10.5
and international NGOs, governments and million) and Qatar ($10 million). A second
regional organizations and partners. Staff tier of donors that contributed more than
thus represent most of the coordination $5 million in unearmarked funding includes
costs, and OCHA needs a high degree of Australia, Germany and the Netherlands.
predictability and flexibility in its funding The highest amount of softly earmarked
to maintain a stable workforce and service funding was received from the United States
delivery throughout the year, including in ($7.2 million) and Canada ($5.6 million).
crises that no longer attract international attention.
FLEXIBLE INCOME IN 2019

Unearmarked contributions allow OCHA
to plan more strategically across its operations and to scale up its presence during a
disaster, or to deploy staff in anticipation
of a predicted disaster, without having to
wait for donors to provide the resources.

Use of flexible funding

During 2019, flexible funding was used to
cover the full range of OCHA’s coordination tools and services around the world,
with funding often moved or reallocated to
kick-start responses to new emergencies;

65

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

FUNDING

scale up operations in deteriorating crises;
fill temporary funding gaps to avoid interruption in critical operations, including
protracted, lower-profile ones; and ensure
the delivery of essential field support from
global programmes.
Flexible funding was moved throughout
the year to where it was most needed at any
given point in time. However, at the end of
2019 when all income, including earmarked
income, was received, over half of all allocated unearmarked funding (57 per cent)
remained directly allocated to field operations, and the remaining 43 per cent to global headquarters’ programmes. All OCHA’s
regional and country offices (except for the
five offices working for the Syria crisis, the
Yemen office and the Colombia office with
a smaller cost plan) depended on unearmarked funding allocations to fully cover
their operational requirements in 2019. A
balance of $10.6 million, consisting of funding with flexible implementation into 2020,
was not allocated in 2019 but was carried
forward to fund activities in early 2020 before other contributions were received.
In July 2019, flexible funding allowed OCHA
to quickly establish a presence in Burkina
Faso to help humanitarian partners keep
pace with rapidly increasing needs following a surge in intercommunal violence that
displaced 560,000 people. In DRC – OCHA’s
largest country operation – unearmarked
funding supported OCHA’s response to the
worsening Ebola outbreak. In early April
2019, an IASC System-Wide Scale-Up Protocol for Infectious Disease Events was activated. OCHA supported the strengthened
coordination and response mechanism and
the newly appointed Emergency Ebola Response Coordinator. At that time, the DRC
office had received only $3.5 million from donors in earmarked contributions, which was
insufficient to even cover its requirements
in the first three months of the year. Unearmarked funding was critical in ensuring
OCHA could provide uninterrupted services.
It was not until September that the bulk of

66

earmarked funding was received and the
office could operate entirely on this funding. By the year’s end, earmarked funding
covered 98 per cent of DRC’s budget. Even
in well-funded operations such as this one,
unearmarked funding was vital to fill funding gaps throughout 2019.
Unearmarked funding is critical to ensure
the continuation of OCHA’s operations in
prolonged – and often forgotten – crises
such as the Sahel region, where conflict,
insecurity and climate shocks affect several million people. OCHA offices in Cameroon, CAR, Chad, Mali, Niger and Nigeria
used $16.3 million in unearmarked funds,
which is 15 per cent of total allocations of
this type of funding.
OCHA’s five regional offices needed $5.6
million in unearmarked funding for their
response to natural disasters, including
Hurricane Dorian in the Bahamas, and cyclones Idai and Kenneth in Mozambique
and Zimbabwe. Regional offices’ surge
staff deployments to country operations
would have been impossible without unearmarked funding.
In 2019, centrally managed programmes
at headquarters received 43 per cent of all
unearmarked funding. These programmes
include standby response tools, information management services, HPC expertise,
civil-military coordination policy and advocacy. Their achievements, along with
many other global programmes described
in this report, were possible thanks to unearmarked funding.

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

FUNDING

“I worked so hard
to be able to
stay in school. I
had to stand up
to my parents
and convince
them that I
could pay for
my school fees
by setting up a
small business
to make
handicrafts and
baskets. It’s not
complicated
why girls are
made to drop
out of school.
It’s just about
money. People
don’t have
enough food to
eat three times
a day, so if you
have a daughter,
you’re going to
want to find her
a husband as
soon as possible
because that
means you won’t
have to feed her
anymore.”
Otpika is an
18-year-old who
lives in Nepal and
wants to become
an accountant when
she grows up. She
was among the 33
girls who shared
their aspirations as
part of the
OCHA-organized
photo exhibition
‘One Day, I Will’.
OCHA/Vincent
Tremeau

67

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Annexes

ANNEXES

68

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Annexes

Acronyms
AAP Accountability to affected populations
ROWCA Regional Office for West and Central Africa
ASG Assistant Secretary-General
SSHF South Sudan Humanitarian Fund
BAY Borno, Adamawa and Yobe
UNCT UN Country Team
CAR Central African Republic
UNDAC United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination
CBPF Country-Based Pooled Funds
UNHCR Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
CERF Central Emergency Response Fund
UNV United Nations Volunteer
DERC Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator
USG Under-Secretary-General
DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo
WASH Water, sanitation and hygiene
ERC Emergency Relief Coordinator
WHO World Health Organization
EU European Union
FTS Financial Tracking Service
GAM Gender with Age Marker
GCA Government-controlled area
GENCAP Gender Standby Capacity Project
HAT Humanitarian Advisory Team
HC Humanitarian Coordinator
HCT Humanitarian Country Team
HDX Humanitarian Data Exchange
HPC Humanitarian Programme Cycle
HRP Humanitarian Response Plan
IAHE Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluation
IASC Inter-Agency Standing Committee
IDP Internally displaced person
IFRC International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies
IHF Iraq Humanitarian Fund
INFORM Index for Risk Management
MHPSS Mental health and psychosocial support
MINUSCA UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic
NGCA Non-Government controlled area
NGO Non-governmental organization
OCHA United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
ODSG OCHA Donor Support Group
OPT occupied Palestinian territory
PSEA Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse
RC Resident Coordinator
ROAP Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
ROLAC Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
ROMENA Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
ROSC Regional Office for the Syria Crisis
ROSEA Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa
69

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

Annexes

Financial tables
DONOR INCOME OVERVIEW - PAID + PLEDGED
DONORS RANKED BY TOTAL FUNDING IN 2019
(US$ MILLION)
2017

2018

2019

Total

OCHA
programme

CBPFs

CERF

Total

OCHA
programme

CBPFs

CERF

Total

OCHA
programme

CBPFs

CERF

Total

United Kingdom

31.60

221.04

99.34

351.98

22.22%

35.07

252.97

114.57

402.61

22.58%

30.88

320.23

386.10

737.22

35.91%

Germany

18.58

203.70

82.51

304.79

19.24%

14.55

175.66

110.20

300.41

16.85%

18.35

167.18

106.00

291.53

14.20%

Sweden

24.58

100.58

74.48

199.65

12.60%

37.18

93.67

88.20

219.05

12.28%

34.67

89.85

88.94

213.46

10.40%

8.57

42.76

73.41

124.75

7.88%

5.68

81.24

67.90

154.82

8.68%

7.66

62.67

62.50

132.83

6.47%

Norway

14.39

40.92

53.43

108.74

6.86%

15.10

45.79

54.45

115.34

6.47%

14.68

44.62

54.71

114.02

5.55%

United States

48.311

34.50

5.00

87.81

5.54%

51.212

34.00

-

85.21

4.78%

55.11

31.25

-

86.36

4.21%

Denmark

7.54

31.92

14.35

53.81

3.40%

4.97

40.54

21.62

67.13

3.76%

4.57

46.04

25.81

76.43

3.72%

Belgium

4.39

46.40

13.57

64.36

4.06%

4.52

45.11

13.57

63.20

3.54%

6.61

48.16

18.95

73.72

3.59%

Canada

7.95

8.36

22.53

38.84

2.45%

9.44

14.77

22.53

46.74

2.62%

10.06

19.94

22.53

52.53

2.56%

Ireland

4.24

36.39

24.04

64.68

4.08%

3.81

46.85

14.25

64.91

3.64%

3.72

35.47

11.39

50.58

2.46%

Switzerland

6.48

17.13

5.99

29.59

1.87%

6.68

20.80

6.24

33.72

1.89%

6.92

23.67

6.91

37.51

1.83%

Australia

8.18

23.38

8.18

39.74

2.51%

8.24

16.25

8.18

32.67

1.83%

7.22

15.24

8.18

30.64

1.49%

Saudi Arabia

0.02

-

0.15

0.17

0.01%

21.60

25.00

0.15

46.75

2.62%

15.97

-

0.15

16.12

0.78%

France

1.09

6.10

-

7.18

0.45%

1.21

6.60

-

7.81

0.44%

3.36

11.48

-

14.84

0.72%

European
Commission

17.46

-

-

17.46

1.10%

16.74

-

-

16.74

0.94%

14.63

-

-

14.63

0.71%

Korea,
Republic of

2.10

11.90

4.00

18.00

1.14%

1.70

5.30

4.00

11.00

0.62%

1.70

7.80

5.00

14.50

0.71%

10.22

-

1.00

11.22

0.71%

10.00

3.47

1.00

14.47

0.81%

10.00

3.50

1.00

14.50

0.71%

3.79

-

7.42

11.22

0.71%

3.79

-

8.64

12.43

0.70%

2.81

-

8.98

11.78

0.57%

-

0.59

2.32

2.91

0.18%

0.59

2.88

2.96

6.42

0.36%

1.10

5.54

3.93

10.57

0.51%

Spain

1.09

3.67

3.42

8.18

0.52%

2.72

2.54

3.49

8.74

0.49%

3.58

3.18

3.41

10.17

0.50%

Luxembourg

0.88

1.60

4.81

7.29

0.46%

1.01

2.96

4.94

8.91

0.50%

0.98

3.57

5.47

10.02

0.49%

New Zealand

3.46

-

2.14

5.60

0.35%

3.46

0.67

2.20

6.33

0.35%

3.42

2.34

2.04

7.80

0.38%

Japan

6.19

-

1.40

7.60

0.48%

6.07

-

1.36

7.43

0.42%

5.82

0.40

0.68

6.90

0.34%

United
Arab Emirates

0.77

-

1.25

2.02

0.13%

4.62

25.00

1.50

31.12

1.75%

1.75

-

5.00

6.75

0.33%

Russian
Federation

0.98

-

1.50

2.48

0.16%

1.00

-

1.50

2.50

0.14%

0.97

-

1.50

2.47

0.12%

Austria

0.64

-

-

0.64

0.04%

0.67

-

-

0.67

0.04%

1.20

-

-

1.20

0.06%

Poland

0.49

-

-

0.49

0.03%

0.52

-

-

0.52

0.03%

0.51

0.50

-

1.01

0.05%

Turkey

0.50

0.50

0.45

1.45

0.09%

0.50

-

0.40

0.90

0.05%

0.50

-

0.40

0.90

0.04%

Estonia

0.56

-

0.11

0.67

0.04%

0.63

-

0.12

0.75

0.04%

0.58

0.06

0.11

0.75

0.04%

Non ODSG

3.61

1.79

5.34

10.74

0.68%

1.60

7.55

4.60

13.74

0.77%

1.19

5.35

4.87

11.40

0.56%

238.66

833.23

512.15

1,584.04

274.86

949.62

558.58

1,783.05

270.51

948.06

Netherlands

Qatar
Finland
Italy

3

GRAND TOTAL

Note: CBPF MPTF; source is GMS based on actual cash received while CBPF OCHA, source is OCT based on pledge value.
1

Amount different than published in 2017 report due to cancellation of pledge ($76,963) in 2018.

2

Amount different than published in 2018 report due to cancellation of pledge ($127,651) in 2019.

3

Including the transfers from Italy’s pre-positioned fund.

834.58 2,053.14

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

Annexes

PROGRAMME INCOME
2019 OCHA PROGRAMME DONOR INCOME (US$)
Donor

Earmarked

Softly Earmarked

United States

44,411,995

Sweden

12,587,951
4,206,669

United Kingdom

Unearmarked

Total

7,200,000

3,500,000

55,111,995

862,999

21,220,004

34,670,953

803,625

25,873,221

30,883,515

Germany

12,661,598

-

5,688,282

18,349,881

Saudi Arabia

15,465,224

-

500,000

15,965,224

3,578,682

574,977

10,530,011

14,683,670
14,631,026

Norway
European Commission

13,516,199

1,114,827

-

3,054,731

5,481,170

1,524,390

10,060,292

Qatar

-

-

10,000,000

10,000,000

Netherlands

-

-

7,658,643

7,658,643

Canada

Australia

-

721,501

6,493,506

7,215,007

Switzerland

4,860,697

-

2,059,732

6,920,429

Belgium

3,833,333

-

2,777,778

6,611,111

Japan

3,716,427

1,250,000

850,000

5,816,427
4,573,868

-

-

4,573,868

Ireland

Denmark

530,303

-

3,185,438

3,715,741

Spain

233,967

3,344,482

-

3,578,448

New Zealand

-

-

3,415,301

3,415,301

France

-

-

3,355,705

3,355,705

Finland

-

-

2,805,836

2,805,836

United Arab Emirates

250,000

-

1,500,000

1,750,000

Korea, Republic of

200,000

500,000

1,000,000

1,700,000

Austria

792,079

308,031

103,881

1,203,991

1,100,110

-

-

1,100,110

Luxembourg

111,235

-

871,278

982,513

Russian Federation

270,000

-

700,000

970,000
584,076

Italy1

Estonia

283,370

133,482

167,224

Poland

506,007

-

-

506,007

Turkey

-

-

500,000

500,000

220,022

22,002

55,006

297,030

-

-

214,335

214,335

111,235

-

-

111,235

Argentina

-

-

70,000

70,000

Singapore

-

-

40,000

40,000

Portugal
Iceland
Bulgaria

Monaco

-

-

34,443

34,443

China

-

-

30,000

30,000

Slovakia

22,447

-

-

22,447

Romania

15,000

-

-

15,000

Latvia

11,001

-

-

11,001

-

-

2,500

126,550,282

22,317,095

Philippines
Subtotal
Regional and local authority2
Private Donations3
UN, NGOs and other entities4
Subtotal
TOTAL 2019

Totals include paid and pledged
contributions.
Including the transfers from Italy’s
pre-positioned fund.

1

2

Funding received from Jersey.

Funding received from private donor and
UPS Foundation.
3

$3,560 received from Azerbaijan Red
Crescent Society and $13,6364 from ECHO
through Save the Children, Spain.

4

2,500

121,300,382

270,167,759
120,773

120,773

-

-

76,982

-

-

76,982

139,924

-

-

139,924

337,679

-

-

126,887,961

22,317,095

121,300,382

337,679
270,505,438

71

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

Annexes

TOP 20 DONORS
VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS – BREAKDOWN OF TOP 20 DONOR EARMARKING IN 2019 (US$)
Office
UNEARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS
EARMARKED AND
SOFTLY EARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS
HEADQUARTER

United States

Sweden

United
Kingdom

Germany

Saudi Arabia

Norway

European
Commission

Canada

Qatar

3,500,000

21,220,004

25,873,221

5,688,282

500,000

10,530,011

-

1,524,390

10,000,000

51,611,995

13,450,949

5,010,294

12,661,598

15,465,224

4,153,660

14,631,026

8,535,901

-

9,100,000

-

-

852,273

-

-

232,757

75,988

-

 7,050,000 

2,587,950

 -   

553,097

-

 648,541

1,169,047

1,144,044

-

2,250,00

215,750

-

553,097

-

-

284,091

350,864

-

1,100,000

431,499

-

-

-

228,441

-

370,645

-

FIELD
REGIONAL OFFICES
Regional Office for Southern
and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for Asia
and the Pacific
Office for the Pacific, Fiji
Regional Office for Latin
America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Latin
America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for West and
Central Africa
COUNTRY OFFICES
Africa

Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
Democratic Republic
of the Congo
Eritrea
Ethiopia

-

-

-

-

-

228,441

884,956

222,387

-

1,000,000

215,750

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

431,499

-

-

191,659

-

200,148

-

35,461,995

10,755,124

5,010,294

11,256,228

15,465,224

3,505,119

12,891,004

7,315,869

-

300,000

-

-

-

-

-

447,427

75,358

-

-

107,875

-

547,046

-

-

222,469

149,487

-

750,000

431,499

-

557,414

-

-

672,650

189,970

-

1,500,000

1,186,624

-

568,182

-

229,991

568,828

303,951

-

-

431,499

-

-

-

191,659

568,828

185,322

-

8,561,713

1,294,498

-

1,679,293

-

569,806

1,663,608

1,551,768

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

74,129

-

-

568,828

-

-

557,414

-

-

539,374

-

568,182

-

-

-

222,387

-

Niger

700,000

431,499

-

-

-

191,659

334,448

224,246

-

Nigeria

2,500,000

431,499

-

568,182

-

217,984

-

341,945

-

Somalia

1,500,000

539,374

1,278,205

568,182

-

224,820

556,174

113,982

-

South Sudan

3,975,282

539,374

-

568,182

-

562,050

1,114,827

264,698

-

Sudan

2,000,000

970,874

-

557,414

-

-

910,125

-

-

23,286,995

7,011,866

1,278,205

6,750,903

-

2,187,969

7,616,799

3,697,243

-

Myanmar

400,000

215,750

-

-

-

-

338,219

558,756

-

Philippines

250,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

222,387

-

650,000

215,750

-

-

-

-

338,219

781,143

-

400,000

107,875

-

547,046

-

114,995

166,852

-

-

400,000

107,875

-

547,046

-

114,995

166,852

-

-

Colombia

300,000

215,750

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Haiti

200,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

500,000

215,750

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Ukraine

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

56,991

-

500,000

1,078,749

-

-

-

283,741

1,158,134

-

-

Pakistan

1,000,000

323,625

1,937,473

-

-

-

-

-

-

Iraq

1,500,000

323,625

-

568,828

-

-

563,698

1,405,775

-

Libya

-

215,750

-

-

-

-

338,219

177,910

-

oPt

-

399,137

-

1,152,977

-

-

563,698

379,939

-

Yemen

3,000,000

107,875

1,794,615

1,136,364

15,465,224

228,441

1,106,195

379,939

-

Syria

4,625,000

862,999

-

1,100,110

-

689,972

1,114,827

436,930

-

10,625,000

3,311,758

3,732,089

3,958,279

15,465,224

1,202,154

4,844,771

2,837,484

-

55,111,995

34,670,953

30,883,515

18,349,881

15,965,224

14,683,670

14,631,026

10,060,292

10,000,000

Afghanistan

GRAND TOTAL

-

-

107,875

Latin America and the
Caribbean Total
Middle East, Northern &
Gender training
Central Asia

Middle East, Northern &
Central Asia Total

-

-

500,000

Europe Total
Latin America and
the Caribbean

-

1,500,000

Asia and the
Pacific Total
Europe

107,875
1,185,577

Mali

Africa Total
Asia and the Pacific

200,000
1,500,000

Total for Syria includes funding to the following offices: Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, as well as funding to the Syria RHC.

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

Annexes

Netherlands

Australia

Switzerland

Belgium

Japan

Denmark

Ireland

Spain New Zealand

France

Finland

7,658,643

6,493,506

2,059,732

2,777,778

850,000

4,573,868

3,185,438

-

-

721,501

4,860,697

3,833,333

4,966,427

-

530,303

-

-

1,253,482

222,222

-

-

-

721,501

-

-

320,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Other Donors GRAND TOTAL

3,415,301

3,355,705

2,805,836

5,288,667

121,300,382

3,578,448

-

-

-

5,193,699

149,205,056

-

11,001

-

-

-

456,235

12,203,958

-

-

-

-

-

-

 1,004,500

15,198,681

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

754,500

4,408,303

320,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,027,786

-

577,201

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

452,175

-

144,300

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

250,000

4,271361

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,215,750

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,823,307

-

-

3’607’214

3,611,111

4,646,427

-

530,303

3,567,447

-

-

-

3,143,624

121,213,077

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

165,017

987,802

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,026,877

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,601,533

-

-

-

888,889

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,246,465

-

-

-

-

300,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,677,309

-

-

501,002

888,889

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

120,773

16,831,351

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

334,448

-

-

-

-

408,577

-

-

501,002

-

500,000

-

303,030

-

-

-

-

-

3,538,149

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

55,556

1,885,499

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

935,094

2,816,946

-

-

-

722,222

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,781,832

-

-

501,002

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,281,739

-

-

501,002

-

1,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

22,002

8,547,418

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,438,413

-

-

2,004,008

2,500,000

1,800,000

-

303,030

334,448

-

-

-

1,298,441

60,069,908

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,512,724

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

136,364

608,751

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

136,364

2,121,475

-

-

250,501

-

-

-

-

1,003,344

-

-

-

589,341

3,179,954

-

-

250,501

-

-

-

-

1,003,344

-

-

-

589,341

3,179,954

-

-

250,501

-

-

-

-

222,965

-

-

-

-

989,216

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

780,379

-

-

-

-

1,242,961

-

-

250,501

-

-

-

-

1,003,344

-

-

-

-

2,232,177

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

56,991

-

-

-

-

178,571

-

-

-

-

-

-

59,116

3,258,310

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,261,098

-

-

-

-

785,714

-

-

-

-

-

-

200,000

5,347,640

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,226,310

-

-

-

55,556

2,013,743

-

-

501,002

722,222

232,142

-

227,273

-

-

-

-

-

4,178,390

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

66,007

21,490,044

-

-

601,202

388,889

1,650,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,328,142

14,592,687

-

-

1,102,204

1,111,111

2,846,427

-

227,273

1,226,310

-

-

-

1,708,819

54,198,903

7,658,643

7,215,007

6,920,429

6,611,111

5,816,427

4,573,868

3,715,741

3,578,448

3,415,301

3,355,705

2,805,836

10,482,366

270,505,438

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

Annexes

ALLOCATION OF UNEARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS

ALLOCATION OF UNEARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2019 (US$)
HEADQUARTER

45,624,818

FIELD

59,474,977

REGIONAL OFFICE
Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific

5,577,390
1,814,691

Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean

624,098

Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa

716,769

Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for West and Central Africa
AFRICA
Burundi
Cameroon

4,160
2,417,672
32,657,055
454,465
828,453

Central African Republic

5,237,590

Chad

2,879,089

Democratic Republic of the Congo
Eritrea

279,183
390,740

Ethiopia

2,691,012

Mali

3,376,563

Niger

962,704

Nigeria

3,016,956

Somalia

4,667,423

South Sudan

3,672,416

Sudan

4,200,461

ALL FIELD
Duty of Care
Field Corporate training
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Myanmar
Office for the Pacific Islands
Philippines
Rohingya Refugee Crisis
Sri Lanka
Central Asia, Pakistan and Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Pakistan
EUROPE
Ukraine
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Haiti
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

635,152
93,305
541,847
4,330,074
2,562,159
700,992
1,016,628
28,300
21,995
7,173,701
7,117,705
55,996
259,373
259,373
706,613
706,613
8,135,618

Iraq

2,464,541

Libya

2,003,665

occupied Palestinian territory

2,611,007

Syria OCHA Operation in Lebanon

344,071

United Arab Emirates

712,334

Total allocated in 2019
With flexible implementation carried through 2020
GRAND TOTAL

105,099,795
10,645,338
115,745,133

Note: The difference between unearmarked income ($121.3M) and unearmarked income that
was allocated ($115.7M) is due to: a) recorded income of $2.5M unpaid as at 31 December
2019; b) difference in exchange rate between the USD amount on the date of signature of
agreement and USD amount on date of receipt of payment.

74

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

Annexes

FINANCIAL STATUS

OCHA FINANCIAL STATUS AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (US$)

OCHA-Mandated Programme
and Administrative Activities

Programme
Activities (a.)

CBPF Management
Units (b.)

Total Trust fund excluding
CBPF grants-out (a+b)

Administrative
Activities

Regular
Budget

Opening Balance - 1 Jan 2019

154,192,181

3,703,469

157,895,650

-

-

2019 Donor Contributions for
Programme Activities1

270,505,438

10,708,967

281,214,405

-

-

2019 Income for Administrative Activities
(Transfer of Programme Support Charges)2

-

-

-

35,151,009

-

2019 Allocation for Regular Budget

-

-

-

424,697,619

14,412,435

439,110,055

-16,620,886

-1,380,111

-18,000,997

-240,718,131

-19,748,346

-257,339,017

Available Funds
Transfer of Programme Support Charges (PSC)
Direct Expenditure

3

Total Expenditure Charged against

4

Net Available Funds before Other Income,
adjustments, transfers, refunds
Interest income, other income, adjustment,
transfer and refunds
Closing Balance

5

Increase / (Decrease) in opening balance
AVAILABLE BALANCE FOR SPENDING

16,007,860
35,151,009

16,007,860

-260,466,477

-35,769,818

-16,806,591

-21,128,457

-278,467,474

-35,769,818

-16,806,591

167,358,602

-6,716,022

160,642,581

-618,809

-798,731

15,540,521

12,174,964

27,715,485

-

-

182,899,123

5,458,942

188,358,065

-

-

28,706,942

1,755,473

30,462,415

-

-

182,899,123

5,458,942

188,358,065

-

-

1

For programme activities, includes paid contributions and unpaid pledges US$6.35M.

2

Transfer of PSC for Administrative Activities, includes PSC levied from programme activities, CBPFs, Specially Designated Contributions and KSA/UAE grants, and excluding CERF

3

Includes disbursements and unliquidated obligations as at 31 December 2019.

For programme activities, expenditure charged against budget is the direct programme expenditure plus programme support transfers. For administrative and regular budget activities,
it is the direct expenditure only.

4

5

As of June 2015, PSC balances have been consolidated under one single PSC account for all Volume 1 entities under the Central Control of the UN Controller.

Note: CERF PSC is not included since 2019 CERF PSC opening balance is not yet confirmed by UNHQ.

IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS
IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)
Entity

Description

UNHCR

Technical assistance/expert services

133,975

US$

FAO

Technical assistance/expert services

118,088

WFP

Technical assistance/expert services

71,149

UNICEF

Technical assistance/expert services

69,971

German Academic Exchange Service

Technical assistance/expert services

17,740

Ireland

Administrative support

5,000

Norway

Administrative support

10,000

UNFPA

Administrative support

Government, International Humanitarian City, Dubai - UAE

Office space

14,116

Japanese Government, Hyogo Pref. - Kobe

Office space

45,507

Government - Almaty, Kazakhstan

Office space

9,000

Government - Tbilisi, Georgia

Office space

15,000

3,188

75

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

Annexes

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE
OCHA BUDGET AND
EXPENDITURE IN 2019 (US$)
REGULAR BUDGET ACTIVITIES

Extrabudgetary Administrative Activities

Mandated Programme Activities
Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

17,212,102

17,212,102

16,806,591

98%

-

-

-

0%

1,731,393
1,160,830
904,483
3,593,228
20,849,595
-

1,963,469
1,311,063
1,001,196
1,893,176
21,842,973
-

1,739,327
1,310,694
1,001,224
1,892,662
21,660,917
-

89%
100%
100%
100%
99%
0%

9,206,440
10,100,103

8,199,242
12,140,819

7,087,877
12,051,175

0%
0%
0%
86%
0%
99%

4,867,682

4,737,581

4,697,139

99%

12,986,065

12,983,994

12,849,501

99%

9,047,127
10,482,704
4,823,607
4,379,836

9,632,486
10,703,887
4,677,887
4,938,931

9,544,057
10,690,598
4,606,369
4,947,792

99%
100%
98%
100%

3,829,434
-

3,797,988
-

3,791,690
-

100%
0%
0%
0%

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES
HEADQUARTERS
OFFICE OF USG
OFFICE OF ASG
ASG FOR HUMANITARIAN PARTNERSHIPS
CENTRAL COSTS
COORDINATION
EXECUTIVE OFFICE
HUMANITARIAN FINANCING AND RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION DIVISION
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
OPERATIONS AND ADVOCACY
POLICY
STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS

2,119,642

2,256,276

2,218,465

98%

-

-

-

0%

HEADQUARTERS Total
FIELD

STRATEGY, PLANNING AND EVALUATION

63,960,126

64,958,925

64,309,245

99%

36,122,043

37,122,043

35,780,243

96%

REGIONAL OFFICES

21,406,886

22,277,821

22,056,013

99%

-

-

-

0%

5,000,308
3,899,981
4,112,001
3,874,745
4,519,851
164,536,487
949,595
349,595
600,000
87,795,059
1,597,000
10,469,660
4,750,355
14,405,663
894,694
5,180,000
5,430,600
4,360,104
8,360,019
3,092,336
8,835,000
10,915,025
9,504,603
7,125,071
4,060,000
1,380,003
1,685,068
11,925,254
8,975,774
2,949,480
3,657,006
3,657,006
3,030,688
1,000,528
2,030,160
50,053,816
7,880,716
4,229,682
6,644,997
7,117,469
1,734,636
2,154,871
3,229,289
3,430,000
915,156
9,845,769
2,871,231
185,943,373

4,974,607
4,942,563
5,710,004
2,340,505
4,310,142
172,411,928
690,625
92,329
598,296
93,441,926
651,854
1,552,619
10,466,446
4,609,528
17,495,039
811,956
6,317,125
5,232,308
3,843,094
7,786,011
3,435,590
10,098,407
12,451,249
8,690,701
6,869,686
4,092,456
1,151,423
1,625,807
13,258,544
10,395,199
2,863,346
3,404,015
3,404,015
2,744,044
923,815
1,820,229
52,003,087
7,816,371
4,005,260
6,705,544
6,891,303
1,765,577
1,847,281
2,967,041
3,894,681
740,941
8,538,151
2,943,207
3,887,731
194,689,750

4,956,012
4,885,257
5,606,284
2,307,257
4,301,202
170,964,713
688,084
92,329
595,756
92,724,789
649,256
1,552,015
10,453,590
4,549,163
17,365,405
804,283
6,299,069
5,217,716
3,800,685
7,770,138
3,433,570
9,929,734
12,210,578
8,689,586
6,858,103
4,082,364
1,151,395
1,624,344
13,032,129
10,341,186
2,690,943
3,400,607
3,400,607
2,726,764
916,576
1,810,188
51,534,237
7,801,936
3,994,428
6,700,232
6,738,795
1,763,187
1,833,675
2,820,321
3,833,173
720,614
8,501,737
2,938,409
3,887,731
193,020,725

100%
99%
98%
99%
100%
99%
100%
100%
100%
99%
100%
100%
100%
99%
99%
99%
100%
100%
99%
100%
100%
98%
98%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
98%
99%
94%
100%
100%
99%
99%
99%
99%
100%
100%
100%
98%
100%
99%
95%
98%
97%
100%
100%
100%
99%

-

-

-

-

-

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for West and Central Africa
COUNTRY OFFICES
ALL FIELD
Duty of Care
Field Corporate training
AFRICA
Burkina Faso
Burundi - OCHA Office
Central African Republic
Chad
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Mali
Niger
Nigeria
OCHA Cameroon
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Myanmar
Office for the Pacific Islands
Philippines
CENTRAL ASIA, PAKISTAN AND AFGHANISTAN
Afghanistan
Pakistan
EUROPE
Ukraine
LATIN AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN
Colombia
Haiti
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Iraq
Libya
occupied Palestinian territory
Syria
Syria OCHA Operation in Jordan
Syria OCHA Operation in Lebanon
Syria OCHA Operation in Turkey
Syria RHC Office
United Arab Emirates
Yemen
Yemen OCHA office - Saudi & Emirate funds
Yemen OCHA office - Saudi Arabia Grant for 2019 2020
FIELD Total

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Annexes

DORMANT ACCOUNTS AND OTHERS
EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES INCLUDING DORMANT
AND OTHERS TOTAL
CBPF MANAGEMENT UNITS

-

-

9,047

0%

249,903,499

259,648,675

257,339,017

99%

-

-

-10,425

0%

36,122,043 37,122,043 35,769,818

96%

24,042,226

24,903,265

21,128,457

85%

-

-

-

0%

Afghanistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

1,962,719

1,962,719

1,605,358

82%

-

-

-

0%

Central African Republic - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

1,093,285

1,261,137

1,041,358

83%

-

-

-

0%

Colombia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
DRC - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Ethiopia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Iraq - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Jordan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Lebanon - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Myanmar - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
NIgeria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
oPt - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Pakistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Somalia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
South Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Syria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Turkey - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Ukraine - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Yemen - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

1,823,389
1,008,707
1,665,180
418,890
459,258
499,506
1,851,895
476,548
260,181
1,991,129
2,002,202
1,660,832
1,285,625
2,441,739
3,141,140

1,823,389
1,065,109
1,665,180
448,358
459,258
499,506
1,851,895
507,996
260,181
1,998,619
2,041,111
1,660,832
1,185,870
2,655,739
474,145
3,082,222

-12,022
1,795,506
908,049
1,444,048
441,600
405,751
435,302
1,456,931
498,931
197,685
1,943,996
1,990,468
1,195,508
772,855
2,216,181
269,785
2,521,167

0%
98%
85%
87%
98%
88%
87%
79%
98%
76%
97%
98%
72%
65%
83%
57%
82%

-

-

-

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

273,945,725

284,551,939

278,467,474

98%

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES INCLUDING CBPF, DORMANT AND
OTHERS TOTAL
TOTAL OCHA ACTIVITIES (REGULAR BUDGET AND
EXTRABUDGETARY)

291,157,826 301,764,042 295,274,065

36,122,043 37,122,043 35,769,818

96%

98% 36,122,043 37,122,043 35,769,818

96%

77

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

Annexes

OTHER PASS-THROUGH CONTRIBUTIONS

OTHER PASS-THROUGH CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)
Donor

US$

MEMBER STATES
Saudi Arabia1

484,534,7761

United States

2,310,000

Norway

1,724,931

Switzerland

991,359

Sweden

865,123

United Kingdom

803,807

Italy

561,167

Ireland

243,760

Germany

138,608

Argentina

110,000

United Arab Emirates1

100,0001

Netherlands

82,497

Canada

75,988

Belgium

55,741

China

50,000

Kuwait

50,000

Romania

50,000

Russian Federation

30,000

Estonia

22,753

Spain

22,002

Colombia

10,000

Japan

9,012

OTHERS
City of The Hague
Education Above All Foundation
UN, NGOs and other entities2
TOTAL

81,371
392,474
372,818
493,688,188

Part of grant to Yemen Humanitarian Response Plan, channeled through OCHA to UN agencies.

1

US$20,000 from IOM, US$20,000 from UNFPA, US$307,818 from WFP and $25,000 from WHO.

2

Note: Other pass-through contributions are earmarked by donors for humanitarian projects
implemented by third parties (UN partners or NGOs). OCHA channels income for such activities
in the form of grants. These pass-through activities are not included in OCHA’s budget, and
income is not counted in the OCHA total donor income for OCHA’s extra-budgetary programme
activities. These activities include ProCap and GenCap rosters; the Humanitarian Data Centre
in The Hague; the Connecting Business initiative; national UNDAC mission accounts held with
OCHA; Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluations; and the Italian Pre-Positioned Bi-lateral Fund.

78

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Annexes

CERF CONTRIBUTIONS

2019 DONOR INCOME TO CERF (US$)
DONOR

AMOUNT

United Kingdom

386,100,386

Germany

106,002,359

Sweden

88,943,146

Netherlands

62,500,000

Norway

54,707,311

Denmark

25,814,414

Canada

22,528,736

Belgium

18,952,062

Ireland

11,394,770

Finland

8,978,676

Australia

8,184,524

Switzerland

6,913,289

Luxembourg

5,470,460

Korea, Republic of

5,000,000

United Arab Emirates

5,000,000

Italy

3,928,171

Spain

3,409,091

New Zealand

2,039,429

Russian Federation

1,500,000

Qatar

1,000,000

Kuwait

1,000,000

Japan

680,357

China

500,000

Iceland

465,030

Turkey

400,000

Indonesia

220,000

Czech Republic

219,106

Liechtenstein

200,803

Portugal

170,455

Saudi Arabia

150,000

Monaco

113,766

Estonia

113,766

Colombia

90,000

Oman

50,000

Singapore

50,000

Chile

30,000

Iran, Islamic Republic of

23,873

Azerbaijan

20,000

Bangladesh

20,000

Thailand

20,000

Andorra

16,943

Kazakhstan

10,000

Pakistan

10,000

Mongolia

10,000

Myanmar

10,000

Viet Nam

10,000

Sri Lanka

10,000

Tunisia

5,000

Armenia

5,000

Moldova

3,000

Peru

2,943

Philippines

2,500

Guyana

2,158

Bhutan

1,500

Subtotal
Observer, regional and local authority
Private donations

833,003,022
1,123,750
452,691

Subtotal

1,576,440

GRAND TOTAL

834,579,462

79

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

Annexes

CBPFs CONTRIBUTIONS

OCHA-managed
Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office managed

COUNTRY-BASED POOLED FUNDS: CONTRIBUTIONS BY DONOR AND FUND IN 2019 (US$)
Recipient
Donor
United Kingdom

Afghanistan

CAR1

DRC2

Ethiopia

Iraq

Jordan

Lebanon

Myanmar

Nigeria

67,140,220

7,263,060

30,133,045

23,270,840

8,248,731

-

-

3,639,010

-

Germany

3,222,746

5,599,500

11,217,000

11,376,564

1,137,656

2,222,222

2,777,778

1,657,790

6,825,939

Sweden

9,345,093

1,631,569

10,811,474

7,864,204

1,539,985

1,099,989

2,670,288

879,991

3,871,531

-

-

7,793,443

-

5,574,136

-

-

-

5,574,136

Netherlands
Belgium

-

2,251,000

6,168,071

-

4,545,455

1,136,364

1,704,545

-

3,409,091

Denmark

5,224,094

3,043,167

-

4,102,564

-

-

1,524,623

-

-

Norway

1,539,570

-

1,009,709

-

-

-

-

3,946,621

Ireland

-

3,366,576

3,381,876

3,397,306

1,141,553

568,828

2,275,313

-

1,136,364

United States
Switzerland
Canada
Australia

-

3,000,000

-

9,750,000

-

-

-

4,500,000

-

599,965

653,226

-

1,008,065

-

-

501,505

813,008

783,546

757,182

762,266

2,850,713

759,878

379,939

-

-

759,878

-

3,593,986

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,521,970

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

200,000

-

200,000

-

-

-

-

500,000

550,055

France
Korea, Republic of
Italy

-

-

-

550,055

550,055

1,100,110

-

-

Luxembourg

-

397,727

397,727

397,727

-

-

397,727

397,727

Qatar

999,960

-

-

1,000,000

-

500,000

-

-

Spain

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

284,414

New Zealand

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,004,016

-

Kuwait

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Jersey

-

578,007

-

-

-

-

-

-

Poland

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Czech Republic

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Iceland

-

-

-

-

-

204,700

-

-

Japan

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Ukraine

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Malaysia

-

-

-

100,000

-

-

-

10,000

Lithuania

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,338,688

423,012

10,000

Monaco

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Cyprus

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Estonia

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Malta

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Azerbaijan

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Philippines

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

93,422,817

28,746,098

73,763,058

24,615,237

5,577,458

13,258,861

17,173,391

26,739,368

GRAND TOTAL (US$)

64,051,177

Totals include paid and pledged contributions.									
Note: CBPF MPTF; source is GMS based on actual cash received while CBPF OCHA, source is OCT based on pledge value.	
			

	
1

Central African Republic

2

Democratic Republic of the Congo

80

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

Annexes

OCHA-managed
Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office managed

3

oPt3

Pakistan

Somalia

South Sudan

Sudan

Syria
Cross-border

Syria

Ukraine

Yemen

TOTAL

-

2,617,801

4,910,080

13,849,160

29,021,440

51,001,903

19,937,526

-

59,201,267

320,234,084

12,490,451

-

13,460,552

14,618,350

3,337,905

29,796,551

2,229,654

2,804,846

42,405,384

167,180,889

2,199,978

2,529,975

8,618,022

6,481,529

7,555,438

6,440,671

6,979,522

1,078,749

8,249,918

89,847,924

-

-

6,786,000

7,793,443

2,226,698

8,593,037

5,406,912

-

12,922,334

62,670,139

3,977,273

-

-

3,376,500

-

7,954,545

7,954,545

-

5,681,818

48,159,207

2,242,823

-

7,191,744

3,815,571

-

3,811,557

5,336,179

-

9,748,923

46,041,245

1,089,918

-

5,569,085

7,939,620

575,997

8,692,549

9,842,503

735,836

3,683,207

44,624,616

330,033

-

3,378,576

4,504,776

3,439,221

2,844,141

-

-

5,707,763

35,472,325

-

-

-

-

8,000,000

-

1,000,000

5,000,000

31,250,000

3,003,003

-

2,084,285

1,997,204

3,037,796

1,510,068

3,325,349

-

4,356,377

23,673,397

-

444,774

1,442,460

764,906

-

1,899,696

3,799,392

-

5,319,149

19,940,234

-

-

5,289,229

2,839,593

-

-

-

-

15,244,778

-

-

-

500,000

-

11,479,398

-

-

-

11,479,398

-

-

200,000

-

800,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

400,000

2,000,000

7,800,000

550,055

-

-

-

-

-

2,237,136

-

-

5,537,467

-

-

-

397,727

-

-

397,727

388,889

397,727

3,570,707

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

-

-

3,499,960

668,896

-

-

-

-

-

1,672,241

-

557,414

3,182,965

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,342,704

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,000,000

2,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

451,281

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

204,700

-

-

-

-

-

-

400,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

26,552,430

5,592,550

58,930,033

-

515,631

1,544,918

504,032

-

504,032

-

-

423,012

-

-

409,400

-

-

400,000

-

357,143

357,143

-

-

100,000

220,000

-

110,619

22,831

133,451

-

-

-

113,766

113,766

-

-

-

57,078

57,078

-

-

-

56,883

-

56,883

-

-

-

-

56,818

56,818

-

-

-

-

-

20,000

20,000

-

-

-

-

-

10,000

10,000

68,878,379

57,994,495

135,024,118

72,174,670

7,079,855

168,484,547

948,058,540

occupied Palestinian territory

81

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

Annexes

unocha.org
reliefweb.int
@unocha | @UNReliefChief
facebook.com/UNOCHA

82

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

