Annual Report on the OECD
Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises 2019

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Please cite this publication as:
OECD (2020), Annual Report on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 2019

This work is published under the responsibility of the Secretary-General of the OECD. The opinions expressed and
arguments employed herein do not necessarily reflect the official views of OECD member countries.
This document, as well as any data and map included herein, are without prejudice to the status of or sovereignty over
any territory, to the delimitation of international frontiers and boundaries and to the name of any territory, city or area.

© OECD 2020

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Annual Report on the OECD Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises
2019

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Foreword

The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (“the Guidelines”), adopted in 1976, are the most
comprehensive international standard on responsible business conduct (RBC), and provide
recommendations on expected business behaviour in the key areas in which business activity impacts
people and the environment. Evolving economic contexts, increasingly complex supply chains and growing
expectations from society on business responsibilities lead to new challenges in the application of the
Guidelines.
The 2019 Annual Report on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises describes activities
undertaken to implement the Guidelines during the period January 2019 to December 2019. The Report
was discussed by the Working Party on Responsible Business Conduct (WPRBC) on 3-4 March 2020 and
approved by the Investment Committee by written procedure on 21 April 2020. The report was approved
by the OECD Council under written procedures on 16 October 2020.
The 2019 Annual Report describes work on implementation of the Guidelines and more broadly on
responsible business conduct, with a focus on the key work streams of the WPRBC – i.e. the promotion of
the Guidelines, support to the National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct (RBC), the
implementation of due diligence tools in global supply chains and policies to enable RBC, as well as
engagement with Adherents and non-Adherents. It also provides an overview of various legislative and
policy developments on RBC.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Table of contents

Executive summary

7

1. Introduction

12

2. The relevance of the Guidelines in light of evolving expectations, contexts and
priorities

19

3. National Contact Points for RBC

24

4. Due Diligence for Responsible Business Conduct

52

2.1. Introduction
2.2. Gender issues in supply chains
2.3. Responsible business conduct and digitalisation
2.4. Addressing business impacts on the environment
2.5. Impacts on indigenous peoples
2.6. The contribution of RBC to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals

3.1. Introduction
3.2. Overview of specific instances handled in 2019
3.3. Trends of new specific instances
3.4. NCP structures and activities
3.5. Promotion of the Guidelines
3.6. NCP participation in Global Forum on Responsible Business Conduct
3.7. Action Plan to strengthen NCPs (2019-2021)

4.1. Due diligence in the financial sector
4.2. Responsible agriculture supply chains
4.3. Responsible minerals supply chains
4.4. Responsible supply chains in the garment and footwear sector
4.5. Monitoring the implementation of the OECD Council Recommendations on due diligence

19
19
20
20
21
22

24
24
33
36
41
47
48

54
55
56
59
62

5. Government action to promote RBC Strengthened government action on
responsible business conduct

63

6. Engagement with Adherents and non-Adherents

69

5.1. Promoting RBC through government policies
5.2. Promoting coherent government policies on RBC

6.1. Adherence to the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
6.2. Engagement with non-Adherents
6.3. Global Forum on RBC

63
66

69
70
74

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

|5
6.4. RBC in international processes

75

Annex A. Overview of NCP performance

76

Annex B. NCP peer review recommendations

80

Annex C. Submission by Business at OECD (BIAC)

83

Annex D. Submission by OECD Watch

84

Annex E. Submission by TUAC

86

Annex F. List of 2019 publications

87

Notes

89

Key elements
Comprehensive overview

Peer review of the National Contact Point of the United Kingdom
Peer review of the National Contact Point of Argentina

NCP case handling and NCP structures
Focus on gender
Reprisals against human rights defenders

76
78

80
81

84
84
84

Tables
Table 3.1. Known headquarter locations of companies/organisations involved in specific instances closed in
2019
Table 3.2. Status of closed specific instances in 2019
Table 3.3. Number of specific instances received by NCPs in 2019
Table 3.4. NCP advisory bodies created in 2019
Table 3.5. NCP participation in advisory groups to OECD sector projects
Table 3.6. NCP peer reviews completed, ongoing and committed
Table 3.7. NCP peer reviews: not yet committed

27
31
33
40
45
49
50

Table A B.1. Institutional arrangements
Table A B.2. Promotion
Table A B.3. Specific instances
Table A B.4. Institutional arrangements
Table A B.5. Promotion
Table A B.6. Specific instances

80
80
81
81
81
82

Figures
Figure 3.1. Outcomes of specific instances concluded in 2019
Figure 3.2. Type of companies/organisations involved in specific instances in 2019
Figure 3.3. Reasons for non-acceptance of specific instances in 2019
Figure 3.4. Number of specific instances submitted annually 2000-2019
Figure 3.5. Status of specific instances submitted in 2019
Figure 3.6. Specific instances submitted in 2019 by industry sector
Figure 3.7. Specific instances by Guidelines chapter in 2019
Figure 3.8. Submitters of specific instances in 2019
Figure 3.9. Locations of NCPs
Figure 3.10. Promotional events organised by or involving NCPs (2015-2019)
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

25
27
30
33
34
34
35
36
38
43

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Figure 3.11. Number of NCPs that organised or participated in events (2015-2019)
Figure 3.12. Target audience at NCP events
Figure 3.13. Size of audience at NCP events
Figure 4.1. OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct
Figure 4.2. 2019 Participation at the OECD Garment and Footwear Forum
Figure 6.1. Responsible Business Conduct Country Fact Sheet: Peru

44
44
45
52
61
73

Boxes
Box 2.1. Key Findings – Report on Ending child labour, forced labour and human trafficking in global supply
chains
Box 3.1. Terminology for the status of specific instances
Box 3.2. Examples of agreement attained through the National Contact Point mechanism
Box 3.3. Examples of recommendations in NCP final statements
Box 3.4. Examples of determinations in NCP final statements
Box 3.5. Examples of Follow-up in NCP specific instances
Box 3.6. ‘Hybrid’ NCP structures
Box 3.7. Progress report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct
Box 3.8. Examples of events organised by NCPs to promote the Guidelines and due diligence guidance
Box 3.9. NCP engagement with minority groups
Box 3.10. Regional NCP networks
Box 3.11. Examples of NCP hosted peer learning events
Box 3.12. ILO Turin technical training on international labour standards
Box 3.13. NCP publications
Box 4.1. OECD Alignment Assessments of Industry and Multi-Stakeholder Programmes
Box 4.2. 2019 Forum on Responsible Mineral Supply Chains
Box 4.3. Linking research to action, in producer countries and globally
Box 4.4. The Chinese textile and garment sector
Box 4.5. Manufacturers network on RBC in the garment and footwear sector

23
24
25
28
29
29
38
41
42
45
46
47
49
51
53
56
58
60
61

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

|7

Executive summary

The Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises: Responding to evolving contexts
and expectations
The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (“the Guidelines”), adopted in 1976, are the most
comprehensive international standard on responsible business conduct (RBC), and provide
recommendations on expected business behaviour in the key areas in which business activity impacts
people and the environment. Evolving economic contexts, increasingly complex supply chains and growing
expectations from society on business responsibilities lead to new challenges in the application of the
Guidelines.

Addressing impacts related to gender, digitalisation, indigenous peoples,
environment
In 2019, the OECD facilitated discussion among the 49 Adherents to the Guidelines on a range of priorities,
including on the application of the Guidelines and related due diligence on impacts related to gender,
digitalisation, and indigenous peoples. With increasing concerns by society about biodiversity loss and
climate change, the year 2019 also saw a growing interest on the application of OECD RBC standards and
tools to environmental impacts, in particular climate change and biodiversity loss.

Contributing to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development calls for a robust involvement of the private sector in global
development efforts. The implementation of RBC standards is essential for the private sector to maximise
its contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Guidelines, as well as related due
diligence guidance, were heavily featured in a report on ending child labour, forced labour and human
trafficking in global supply chains, produced by OECD, ILO, IOM and UNICEF. The report represents the
first-ever attempt by international organisations to measure these human rights abuses and violations in
global supply chains and to overcome the challenges faced by conventional statistics and accounting
methods in face of the complexity and interconnectedness in the global markets.

National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct delivering access to
remedy in important new areas, while progress on capacity remains uneven
In 2019, all countries adhering to the Guidelines (currently 49) had a National Contact Point (NCP) in place
and of those, all but one submitted a report to the OECD Secretariat, providing information on activities
related to implementation of the Guidelines in 2019. Just one country (Jordan) did not attend the two NCP

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

meetings at the OECD (compared to three in 2018) and the same NCP did not report on its 2019 activities
(the same as in 2018).
The 2019 Progress Report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct which was
released at the 2019 OECD Ministerial Council Meeting (MCM) set out a number of areas for attention and
several recommendations for governments with regard to their NCPs. These recommendations are still
relevant based on the data provided as at December 2019. For instance, ensuring that the financial and
human resources provided to NCPs are commensurate with the scope of their role and the heightened
complexity of their work. Ensuring that the NCP enjoys the necessary support and visibility within
government to carry out their functions effectively and promote policy coherence on RBC. Ensuring that
the composition of the NCPs is such that they can carry out their functions impartially and without risk of
conflicts of interest – or perception thereof. And finally, if the government has not yet volunteered for a
peer review of their NCP, all are encouraged to do so in order to meet the ambitious MCM target of all
NCPs being peer reviewed by 2023 and for those that have, they should implement to the extent possible
the recommendations, and report on progress made.
In 2019, the peer reviews of the NCPs in the United Kingdom and Argentina were completed taking the
total of completed reviews to 18. One peer review is ongoing (Korea). Of the remaining 30 countries, 18
have committed to a peer review between 2021-2023, in line with the MCM commitment. This leaves a
total of 12 countries not having yet committed to a peer review of their NCP of which 8 are OECD Members.
In 2019, NCPs closed 30 specific instances compared to 34 in 2018. Agreement was reached between
parties in five specific instances out of seven that went into mediation, a higher rate of agreement than in
the previous year. However, companies refused to engage in mediation at a significantly higher rate than
in 2018. In the majority of these cases, the companies in question pointed to parallel proceedings as the
reason they declined to participate. In 2019, final statements of concluded specific instances included
recommendations and determinations, although at a lower rate than in 2018. Statements by the NCP
constitute an important tool to support the effectiveness of the Guidelines, and NCPs have continued to
show strong levels of monitoring and follow up provisions in the final statements of specific instances as
well as publication of follow up statements. One example was the renewed cooperation agreement
between parties in a specific instance handled by the German NCP. Overall, in 2019 there were important
outcomes and co-operation between parties in concluded cases, including through agreements on
environmental protection and climate impacts in both the internet service sector and banking.
In terms of submissions of new cases, 2019 saw 30 submitted to NCPs compared to 52 in 2018, a rate
lower than the average submission rate between 2011-2018 (38 specific instance submissions per year).
In addition, 15 NCPs received specific instance submissions compared to 25 NCPs in 2018. In 2019, Trade
Unions and individuals were the primary submitters of specific instances. The Human Rights chapter was
the most frequently referenced chapter in 2019, and, 2019 also saw an increase in submissions referencing
the Tax chapter of the Guidelines.

Supporting alignment and effectiveness of certification and other schemes in
global supply chains
Governments and industry rely on supply chain certification and other schemes on responsible business
conduct for a wide variety purposes, including to audit common suppliers, to provide assurance on the
environmental or social conditions associated with certain products, to support effective industrial relations
in global supply chains, or to assess conformance of businesses with government policies on RBC. These
schemes, which may be led by governments, industry or multi-stakeholder groups, play a critical role in
supporting business to carry out due diligence for RBC, although currently they are fragmented, duplicative
and lack coherence.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

|9

In 2019, the OECD has responded to increasing market demand to scale up work to assess the alignment
of such initiatives with the OECD’s due diligence guidance in the minerals and garment sectors, in order
to support global coherence and mutual recognition of RBC schemes. To date, the OECD has developed
and published two Alignment Assessment tools 1 (targeted towards the minerals and garment & footwear
sectors), an Alignment Assessment methodology of industry and multi-stakeholder initiatives 2 and
completed pilot assessments of five major industry programmes focusing on gold, tin, tantalum and
tungsten. 3 These schemes cover more than 90% of the global production in those metals, and so changes
made as a result of the alignment process has a major impact on market practice. In 2019, the OECD
published an assessment of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg Brand & Retail Module, 4 which
contributed directly to revisions of the framework and how companies use it. In 2019, the OECD also
launched two further assessments of government-led multi-stakeholder initiatives in the garment sector (in
Germany and the Netherlands).
The work is also having an impact on policy and law. For example, in 2019, the EU Delegated Act on the
recognition of industry schemes (2019/429), part of the EU Regulation on Responsible Mineral Supply
Chains (Regulation (EU) 2017/821) entered into force in April 2019 and enshrined into EU law the OECD
Alignment Assessment methodology.

Key markets and the finance sector are major multipliers of RBC standards and
due diligence in global supply chains
In 2019, the OECD deepened its engagement with other strategic multipliers for RBC standards globally,
notably in key producing or trading markets, as well as in the financial sector.
In the context of the financial sector, in 2019 the OECD published a due diligence guidance for corporate
lending and underwriting transactions, which is the first common global framework for financial institutions
to carry out due diligence to identify, respond to, and publically communicate on environmental and social
risks associated with their clients. Global nonfinancial corporate debt, including bonds and loans, more
than doubled over the past decade, reaching 66 trillion USD in mid-2017. While many banks have adopted
the Equator Principals, a leading environmental and social management standard applicable to project
finance, these only represent a fraction of most banks’ lending activities, leaving a vacuum with respect to
the vast majority of banking debt transactions. This work fills that gap and is expected to have a major
impact on all sectors of the economy.
To support the practical application of the OECD-FAO Guidance for Responsible Agricultural Supply
Chains (OECD-FAO Guidance), the OECD and FAO concluded a pilot with over thirty global agri-business
companies and industry initiatives. In-country outreach and technical seminars on due diligence in the
agricultural and seafood sectors were organized in key producing regions, including Myanmar, the
Philippines, Thailand and Viet Nam. A regional pilot was launched with over 20 agri-businesses operating
in Southeast Asia in July 2019. 5
In the context of engagement and outreach on the garment and footwear sector the OECD continued its
partnership with the China National Textile and Apparel Council (CNTAC), by commencing research on
the implementation of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance in China. The OECD also deepened its
engagement with the India through its collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and
started to engage with the Vietnamese government and industry. In 2019 the OECD launched an informal
network of manufacturers to provide a peer-led platform to build capacity on due diligence, share learnings
and feed into OECD research.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Strengthening the evidence base for evaluating impact and effectiveness of due
diligence and RBC policy responses
As governments increasingly promote companies to carry out due diligence to address their impacts on
people, planet and society, there is a corresponding need to establish a coherent and comparable global
picture on the extent to which due diligence is being implemented by companies and the impact of those
efforts within specific sectors, jurisdictions and across countries. While numerous benchmarks exist to
measure and compare company practices, there lacks an authoritative, comprehensive, governmentbacked set of indicators for measuring and monitoring due diligence and their impacts.
A comprehensive understanding of these matters is necessary in developing meaningful capacity building
and evaluating policy interventions over time. In 2019, the OECD began filling these gaps, starting with
work in the minerals and garment sectors. The OECD launched a project to measure the global uptake of
the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and
High-Risk Areas. In parallel the OECD has been developing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework
to measure the outcomes of the implementation of the OECD Minerals Guidance in mineral-producing
countries. The methodology will be finalized and then tested in 2020. A feasibility study on monitoring the
uptake and impact of due diligence in the garment and footwear sector was also launched in 2019.

Strengthening government policies and policy coherence on RBC
In 2019, the trend to integrate expectations on RBC in domestic and international policy commitments and
regulations continued. This included adoption of legislation requiring companies to carry out supply chain
due diligence, or to report on actions to deal with adverse human rights and environmental impacts through
their supply chains. At the same time, RBC expectations are being mainstreamed in other policy areas that
have the potential to make a significant impact, such as public procurement, trade and investment
agreements, exports credits and state-owned enterprises. Developments at the national and regional
levels often explicitly refer to OECD RBC instruments, thereby strengthening their reach and potential
impact. Mirroring these developments, since 2019 the WPRBC’s mandate also recognises the role
governments play in promoting and enabling RBC.
The OECD launched a project on RBC and public procurement and work also started on RBC and
investment treaties. These developments have helped foster the implementation of RBC standards
globally, and thereby level the playing field. They have also strengthened the awareness among state
agencies of the importance of promoting RBC standards and mainstreaming them into relevant policy
areas. Adherents to the Guidelines have increasingly recognised that the effective implementation of RBC
standards requires promoting complementarity in laws and regulations to ensure effective policy
integration.

Engagement across the globe to promote and enable RBC
The strength of the Guidelines and how far and deep in global supply chains they are implemented also
rests on engaging key economic players for global supply chains. 2019 saw several breakthroughs in this
regard. 2019 witnessed increasing political buy-in on RBC across the globe as well as strong engagement
and demand for capacity-building by businesses. The OECD activities in Asia and Latin America and the
Caribbean, particularly in the context of the ongoing projects funded by the European Union (see Chapter
5), resulted in increasing political buy-in as well as strong and clear demand by business to boost technical
capacity on due diligence. Similar trends can be observed through sector-specific engagement. For
example, through the engagement in Asia, the OECD collaborated on RBC with the Chinese Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology (MIIT), which is responsible for development and regulation of
China’s industrial polices and standards and also oversees the Chinese electronics industry. In Latin
America, the OECD collaborated with Peru on the first RBC policy review.
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

| 11
The OECD also supported the G20 and G7 international processes as well as joint work with other
international organisations and key partners. The G7 Social Communiqué adopted on 9 June refers to the
Guidelines and sends a strong signal on the importance of promoting RBC in global supply chains. The
G20 also underlined the importance of RBC in two thematic areas, notably on quality infrastructure and
ending child labour, forced labour and human trafficking in global supply chains (see section 4.4). Beyond
G20 and G7, OECD also promoted wide engagement with stakeholders. For example, the 7th Global
Forum on RBC took place for the first-time ever outside of Paris on 12-13 June 2019 in Bangkok, Thailand.
The Forum was co-organised by the government, ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human
Rights (AICHR), International Labour Organisation (ILO), United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), and the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for the Asia Pacific (UN ESCAP), with
several UN agencies actively involved, including the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human
Rights, UN Environment, UNFCCC, UNICEF and IOM. The Forum also attracted participants from 21
Adherents (including eight NCPs) and all 10 ASEAN Members. This level of coordination contributes to
international policy alignment.
Engagement with Adherents and non-Adherents will continue to be a priority for the WPRBC beyond 2019,
as underlined by the mandate of the WPRBC.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

1. Introduction
The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (hereafter the “Guidelines”), which are part of the OECD Declaration on
International Investment and Multinational Enterprises (hereafter the “Investment Declaration”) [OECD/LEGAL/0144], are
recommendations from governments to multinational enterprises on responsible business conduct (RBC). They are the most
comprehensive set of government-backed guidance on responsible business conduct and cover a range of topics including human
rights, labour rights, supply chain due diligence, the environment, anti-corruption, and more.
The 2019 Annual Report on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises set out in the Appendix
describes activities undertaken to implement the Guidelines during the period between January-December
2019. The Report was discussed by the Working Party on Responsible Business Conduct (WPRBC) on 34 March 2020 [DAF/INV/RBC(2020)5] and approved by the Investment Committee by written procedure
on 21 April 2020 [DAF/INV(2020)32].
The 2019 Annual Report describes work on implementation of the Guidelines and more broadly on
responsible business conduct, with a focus on the key work streams of the WPRBC – i.e. the promotion of
the Guidelines, support to the National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct, the
implementation of due diligence tools in global supply chains and policies to enable RBC, as well as
engagement with Adherents and non-Adherents. It also provides an overview of various legislative and
policy developments on RBC.

1.1. Ensuring the relevance of the Guidelines in light of evolving expectations,
contexts and priorities
The year 2019 saw an intensified focus on ensuring that the Guidelines remain relevant in the evolving
economic context, and in light of increasingly complex supply chains and growing expectations from
society on business responsibilities. The Guidelines remain the only comprehensive international standard
on RBC, covering all areas of business responsibility, and hence, the work of the WPRBC covers a broad
array of issues. In 2019, this included examining the application of the Guidelines in relation to the digital
economy; promoting the relevance of the Guidelines in addressing environmental issues; highlighting the
relevance of RBC for the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and developing
guidance on RBC for various actors in the financial sector.
The relevance of the Guidelines for the digital economy will only increase in the coming years, especially
as a number of services and activities are expected to be conducted online as a result of the current
COVID-19 pandemic. The digital economy is not only affecting existing business models and the workplace
itself, but it is also challenging the fundamental understanding of what a “business” actually is. Additionally,
while new digital tools can accelerate and enable businesses to act responsibly, the digital transformation
can also lead to businesses causing or contributing to human rights and other social and environmental
harms in new ways. To support the 49 Adherents in understanding and addressing the intersection
between RBC and the digital economy, the WPRBC organised a workshop on digitalisation and RBC for
its delegates 6 and produced a series of RBC papers, including on Artificial Intelligence, 7 Online Platform
Companies 8 and the role of distributed ledger technology, including blockchain, in responsible supply
chains. 9 Going forward, the WPRBC will consider new work on the impact of digitalisation on RBC to
support the effective implementation of the Guidelines and as a contribution to the OECD’s Going Digital
phase II project.
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

| 13
The application of the Guidelines to business-related impacts on the environment has also received
growing attention. National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct (NCPs) have dealt with an
increasing number of environment-related specific instances, particularly in the context of climate
change. 10 In order to support Adherents with managing these issues, the WPRBC is developing practical
tools on the application of the Guidelines and related due diligence guidance to addressing environmental
impacts through companies’ supply chains, with a focus on climate change, biodiversity, and circular
economy. Working with international organisations, government and business partners, this work will
inform the increasing trend in the incorporation of environment-related due diligence into various initiatives
on voluntary and mandatory regulation and policy. This work will also support broader green economy
policy objectives and help build resilience in responding to environmental emergencies. The emphasis on
the environmental impacts of businesses, as well as disaster planning and supply chain resilience, is
expected to increase as governments seek to tackle the COVID-19 crisis and prepare for future pandemics
and crises.
RBC also has a critical role in the context of the implementation of the SDGs. Implementing RBC standards
can help companies operationalise the SDGs. In 2019, the OECD – jointly with the International Labour
Organization (ILO), the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF) – released a report on Ending child labour, forced labour and human trafficking in global
supply chains under the aegis of Alliance 8.7, which was set up in 2016 to contribute to the implementation
of SDG 8: “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment
and decent work for all”. The report also supports the July 2017 call by G20 Labour and Employment
Ministers to accelerate action to eliminate the worst forms of child labour, forced labour and modern slavery
in global supply chains. 11 The report, for the very first time, combines data from OECD, ILO, IOM and
UNICEF in order to measure these abuses and violations in global supply chains, and provides guidance
on how governments and companies can use RBC standards and tools to address them.
In recent years there has been momentum for promoting RBC in the financial sector, and “sustainability”
reporting more broadly. Driven by demand from regulators, beneficiaries, consumers and society, investors
and banks are increasingly integrating environmental and social considerations in their investment and
financing decisions, and financial products with environmental and social objectives have seen a huge
growth. Across the sector, there is a growing need and demand for better data, common benchmarks and
metrics related to environmental social and governance (ESG) criteria for corporate reporting and impact
measurement purposes. 12 As the only comprehensive, global, government-backed instrument on RBC,
the Guidelines are already playing an important role in framing policies and laws on ESG reporting and the
performance of corporations. In particular, they help foster coherence among different standards and
thereby facilitate the implementation of RBC by the financial industry. Additional consideration of how the
Guidelines can better contribute to improving the quality of ESG information for financial sector
practitioners could also be helpful in overcoming some of the current data challenges.
In light of these developments, the theme of the 2020 OECD Business and Finance Outlook, the flagship
publication of the Directorate for Financial and Enterprise Affairs (DAF), will be “Sustainable and Resilient
Finance”. The publication will explore how ESG factors can contribute to creating long-term value and
resilience and how policy approaches, including OECD standards, can help respond to some of the
ongoing challenges to ESG integration in the sector.
Ensuring that the Guidelines remain fit for purpose in a post-COVID world will be critical in the coming
years. The Guidelines themselves foresee that Adherents participate in appropriate reviews and
consultation procedures to address issues concerning the interpretation of the Guidelines in a changing
world. 13 Taking stock of the implementation of the Guidelines since their last update in 2011
[C/MIN(2011)11/FINAL] and discussions among Adherents on the relevance, timeliness and modalities of
a possible review to ensure the Guidelines remain at the forefront of international standards on RBC might
be timely. 14 This exercise could encompass a consideration of emerging areas and increasingly acute
challenges, especially in light of the COVID-19 crisis, the increasing impact of the digital transformation on
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

the economy, and the growing focus on sustainability and RBC/ESG in markets, as well as consider
whether an update of the Guidelines or other actions may be appropriate.

1.2. National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct
NCPs remained a centrepiece of the implementation of the Guidelines in 2019, with NCPs closing 30
cases, and facilitating agreement in five cases between the parties, out of seven that went into mediation.
Of note are a number of cases involving the financial sector and the impacts to which their financing
activities might be linked. For example, in the case of “ING Bank and NGOs concerning climate policy”
submitted to the Dutch NCP, the bank notably agreed to measure and publish its direct and indirect carbon
footprint, and to bring it into line with the Paris Agreement. Another case on “Credit Suisse and Society for
Threatened Peoples Switzerland”, handled by the Swiss NCP, concerned the bank’s alleged affiliation with
a project regarding the construction of a pipeline, whereby Credit Suisse agreed to include the concept of
Free Prior Informed Consent (FPIC) in its internal sector specific policies for Oil & Gas, Mining and Forestry
& Agribusiness.
However, as highlighted in the Progress Report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business
Conduct, which was released at the 2019 OECD’s Ministerial Council Meeting (MCM) [C/MIN(2019)7], a
number of challenges still limit the capacity of many NCPs. For instance, ensuring that the financial and
human resources provided to NCPs are commensurate with the scope of their role and the heightened
complexity of their work remains a challenge in a number of Adherents, despite this being an obligation
under the Decision of the Council on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
[OECD/LEGAL/0307]. In many countries, there is still room for improvement in ensuring that the NCPs are
provided with the necessary support and visibility within government to carry out their functions effectively
and promote policy coherence on RBC. There is also a need to ensure that the composition of every NCP
is such that it respects neutrality, can carry out its functions impartially and without a risk of conflicts of
interest – or its perception thereof. These challenges affect not only the performance of individual NCPs,
but also result in the lack of functional equivalence, which in turn jeopardises the credibility of the NCP
system as a whole. One of the consequences is that case submitters are being increasingly selective of
NCPs, resulting in a few NCPs receiving significant numbers of submissions.
Ensuring that all NCPs undergo a peer review by 2023, in line with the commitment made at the 2017
MCM, 15 would help address these challenges. However, so far only 18 NCP peer reviews have been
completed or are ongoing. An additional 18 Adherents have committed to undertaking a peer review of
their NCP between 2021-2023, leaving 12 countries yet to commit, of which 6 are OECD Members. 16
As the year 2020 marks the 20th anniversary of the NCP grievance mechanism, it is all the more essential
that all Adherents give their NCPs the support they need to effectively provide access to remedy. The 2020
Global Forum on RBC [http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/global-forum/] brought focus to this issue and
provided an occasion for an in-depth reflection on the NCP system. In addition, a reflection paper will be
published in November 2020, highlighting the main achievements of NCPs during the last 20 years, and
proposing ways to strengthen the mechanism further as it enters its third decade. Findings from this paper
would help assess the effectiveness of the Guidelines as well as their implementation mechanisms,
together with other related OECD RBC instruments.

1.3. Due diligence for Responsible Business Conduct
The implementation of the OECD instruments on due diligence for RBC 17 continues to have a positive
impact on policy and practice. In response to the continuously growing demand for the assessment of how
industry and multi-stakeholder initiatives align with and implement OECD due diligence guidance, the work

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

| 15
on alignment assessments, with a focus on the mineral and garment and footwear sectors, continued in
2019. These OECD alignment assessments, built on the basis of a unique methodology developed with
the multistakeholder advisory boards that support the implementation of OECD due diligence guidance,
provide important benefits to both governments and business. They are a means for checking how due
diligence expectations – often voluntary but increasingly enshrined in regulations – are actually being
implemented in practice and where gaps might exist. They are also a tool for getting whole sectors or
segments of supply chains to carry out more meaningful due diligence. For example, the EU Regulation
on Responsible Mineral Supply Chains, adopted in May 2017 and which which will apply across the EU on
1 January 2021, enshrines the aforementioned OECD assessment methodology, and its provisions are
rooted in the recommendations of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of
Minerals. 18 The Regulation will come into force on 1 January 2021.
The availability of evidence on the uptake of due diligence by companies is important, not only for
companies and investors, but also for governments. The work on a monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
framework to measure the outcomes of the implementation of due diligence in the minerals and garment
and footwear sectors is ongoing and will contribute to building comprehensive and empirically-based
evidence.
In 2019, the WPRBC and the Investment Committee also approved new guidance on Due Diligence for
Responsible Corporate Lending and Securities Underwriting [DAF/INV(2019)7/FINAL], 19 which was
developed in close consultation with leading multinational banks, civil society and trade unions. It provides
the first common global framework for financial institutions to identify, respond to and publicly communicate
on environmental and social risks associated with these types of transactions.
The coming years will be particularly important for promoting OECD due diligence standards. EU Justice
Commissioner Reynders announced in April 2020 that the EU is exploring issuing a mandatory human
rights and environmental due diligence legislation for European companies. During the 2020 Global Forum
on RBC held virtually on 19 May and 17 June 2020, European Trade Commissioner Hogan affirmed his
support for cross-cutting due diligence policy, and underscored the value of OECD due diligence guidance
in this regard. In parallel, several Adherents are considering national regulatory initiatives on due diligence,
including Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Supporting alignment of those initiatives with OECD
standards will be crucial for establishing a level playing field globally and avoiding conflicting requirements,
inefficiencies for business operating across borders and extra compliance costs.
The broader work on due diligence implementation will continue to be one of the core pillars of OECD
engagement with businesses through consultations, trainings, implementation of pilot projects and the
development of tools for companies of all sizes. This work is expected to further gain relevance as
companies seek to address the negative impacts of the COVID-19 crisis and to enhance their disasterpreparedness. Supply chain due diligence in this regard fosters resilience and helps short and long-term
recovery by companies hit by the crisis, as described in a policy brief on COVID-19 and RBC, published
on the OECD Digital Hub on Tackling the Coronavirus (COVID-19). 20
Over the past ten years, the engagement with stakeholders on due diligence implementation has gone
from strength to strength. Participation by companies in the various programmes to support the
implementation of OECD due diligence guidance has grown significantly. Currently, 244 companies directly
participate as members of multi-stakeholder advisory groups for the minerals, garment and footwear,
agriculture and financial sectors and whose discussions feed into the work of the WPRBC. Additional
43,300 companies and co-operatives as well as 150,000 manufacturers are represented indirectly in those
groups through participating industry associations. OECD-led fora and workshops on due diligence
attracted over 1,400 business participants in 2019. The collaboration with businesses is reinforced also
through the regional RBC programmes in Asia and Latin America, which include numerous activities to
promote the uptake of due diligence.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

1.4. Government policies and policy coherence for Responsible Business
Conduct
Adherents to the Guidelines have increasingly recognised that the effective implementation of RBC
standards requires a policy environment that supports mainstreaming RBC standards into relevant policies,
and ensures that RBC is leveraged through policies and practice. In 2019, the trend to integrate
expectations on RBC in domestic and international policy commitments and regulations continued,
including legislations requiring companies to carry out due diligence for RBC. Increasingly, governments
are also seeking to lead by example on RBC through their own economic activities, leveraging their finance
and buying power in order to help shape business behaviour. Public procurement, state-owned
enterprises, export credits and trade and investment agreements are all areas that have seen an increase
in the use of and reference to RBC standards.
In 2019, the WPRBC and the Working Party of the Leading Practitioners in Public Procurement launched
a multi-year joint project on Leveraging Responsible Business Conduct through Public Procurement. Public
procurement represents on average 12% of GDP and 29% of government expenditure. 21 Integrating RBC
into the policies and practices of public procurement therefore presents a tremendous opportunity for
achieving impact at scale. The project aims to promote the integration of RBC standards including due
diligence in public procurement policies and practices through an evidence base of current purchasing
practices, and establishing a platform for public procurement practitioner and policy makers to promote
peer learning and develop relevant tools and frameworks. A report on how Adherents are implementing
RBC considerations into public procurement policies and practices will be published in the last quarter
of 2020.
The revised mandate of the WPRBC, which entered into force on 1 January 2019 [DAF/INV/RBC(2018)26],
explicitly acknowledges the importance of RBC policy coherence. Subsequently the WPRBC held a series
of discussions on how to best support Adherents in addressing this challenge in 2019. 22 In 2020, this work
will focus on identifying the key elements of government policies aimed at ensuring policy coherence on
RBC, with a view to providing guidance to governments, for example, in the form of an OECD legal
instrument.

1.5. Engagement with Adherents and non-Adherents
The strength of the Guidelines and how far and deep in global supply chains they are implemented also
rests on engaging with key economic players for global supply chains. Promoting dialogue and deepening
engagement on RBC has been one of the top priorities of the WPRBC since the Guidelines were updated
in 2011. Co-operation is maintained through regional, country, and sector programmes, the Global Forum
on RBC, as well as the sector-specific fora and roundtables (e.g., the Forum on Responsible Minerals
Supply Chains). Discussions on RBC also take place in the context of Investment Policy Reviews (IPRs),
all of which contain a chapter on RBC (e.g., most recently, the IPRs of Thailand and Myanmar), as well as
when new Adherents join the Investment Declaration. In 2019, Croatia became the 49th Adherent to the
Investment Declaration. The procedures for the adherence of Uruguay and Bulgaria started in 2019 and
are ongoing.
2019 witnessed an increasing political buy-in on RBC across the globe as well as strong engagement and
demand for capacity-building by businesses, particularly in the context of the ongoing regional programmes
on RBC in Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean funded by the European Union. For example, through
its engagement in Asia, the OECD established collaboration at the technical level with the Chinese Ministry
of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT), which is responsible for China’s industrial policies, leading
to an integration of RBC in MIIT’s work programme for the next biennium (2020-2021). Under the RBC in
Asia project, the OECD provided support to the development of Thailand’s National Action Plan on
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

| 17
Business and Human Rights adopted in 2019. In Latin America and the Caribbean, the OECD collaborated
with Peru on the first RBC policy review, 23 launched in June 2020, which is now serving as an input into
the development of a National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights. An RBC policy review is
planned to be undertaken in eight other countries in the region, promoting a race to the top and establishing
a new body of policy evidence in the region. 24
Engagement also expanded beyond country-specific work. Notably, the 7th Global Forum on RBC took
place for the first time ever outside of Paris in Bangkok, Thailand, on 12-13 June 2019, co-organised with
the Royal Thai Government, the ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights (AICHR) and
several UN agencies. The Forum attracted over 700 participants from 21 Adherents and all 10 ASEAN
Members.
RBC was also included in the G20 and G7 processes. The June 2019 G7 Social Communiqué refers to
the Guidelines and sends a strong signal on the importance of promoting RBC in global supply chains.
The G20 also underlined the importance of RBC in two thematic areas, notably on quality infrastructure
and ending child labour, forced labour and human trafficking in global supply chains.
Engagement with key economies in the global supply chain should continue to be a priority for all
Adherents, as it helps levelling the playing field and brings far-reaching benefits to those economies and
for Adherents alike. Integrating RBC in policy measures and initiatives that target trading partners (e.g., in
trade and investment agreements and development co-operation) can be particularly efficient and
strategic. For the effectiveness of the Guidelines and the functioning of the NCP system, it is important to
ensure that candidate countries that want to adhere to the Investment Declaration are fully committed to
the implementation of the Guidelines before they are invited to adhere, including setting up a NCP that
meets the core criteria set out under the Guidelines and is sufficiently resourced to carry out its functions.

1.6. OECD Centre for Responsible Business Conduct
In recognition of the growth in relevance and volume of the OECD’s work on RBC, an OECD Centre for
Responsible Business Conduct (RBC Centre) was created in September 2019 within the Directorate for
Financial and Enterprise Affairs. The RBC Centre implements the activities on RBC under the mandate of
the WPRBC, which includes providing the Secretariat for the WPRBC and the Network of NCPs, and
promoting and supporting the implementation of OECD RBC standards among Adherents and nonAdherents. The RBC Centre currently has a staff of 38, and is funded from the OECD’s Part 1 budget
(approx. 10% of the total budget of the RBC Centre for the biennium 2019-20) and voluntary contributions
(accounting for approx. 90% of the RBC Centre’s budget). Voluntary contributions are provided mainly by
the EU, as well as some individual Members, including Canada, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden
[DAF/INV/RBC(2019)14].

1.7. Proposed Action
In light of the preceding, the Secretary-General invites the Council to adopt the following draft conclusions:
THE COUNCIL
a) noted document C(2020)120, in particular the report set out in the Appendix and agreed to this its
declassification;
b) noted the continuous progress made by Adherents in implementing the Declaration on International
Investment and Multinational Enterprises [OECD/LEGAL/0144] and the Decision of the Council on
the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises [OECD/LEGAL/0307] and in promoting
responsible business conduct;

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

c) welcomed the work of the Working Party on Responsible Business Conduct to ensure that the
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises remain at the forefront of international standards on
Responsible Business Conduct;
d) welcomed the work to strengthen National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct on
the occasion of their 20th anniversary and encouraged Members to provide them with sufficient
support and resources, in line with the recommendations of the 2019 Progress Report on National
Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct; and, for those not having done so, to commit to
a peer review of their NCP by 2023;
e) encouraged Members to draw from OECD due diligence guidance when devising new policy or
legislation on due diligence, and called for scaling up empirically based work to assess the impact
of due diligence, including its impacts on business resilience, in particular in the context of the
COVID-19 crisis;
f)

encouraged Members to continue strengthening and promoting engagement on RBC with nonAdherents and to consider how RBC could be integrated in existing policy initiatives and tools,
notably in trade and investment policies as well as development co-operation;

g) welcomed the work aimed at providing practical tools for companies to deal with environmental
challenges;
h) agreed to discuss the implementation of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and
the related Decision of the Council on the occasion of the 2020 Annual Report on the OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

| 19

2. The relevance of the Guidelines in
light of evolving expectations, contexts
and priorities
2.1. Introduction
The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (“the Guidelines”) 25, adopted in 1976, are the most
comprehensive international standard on responsible business conduct (RBC), and provide
recommendations on expected business behaviour in the key areas in which business activity impacts
people and the environment. Evolving economic contexts, increasingly complex supply chains and growing
expectations from society on business responsibilities lead to new challenges in the application of the
Guidelines.
In 2019, the OECD facilitated a range of activities, including workshops and research to support discussion
among adhering governments on how the Guidelines apply to a range of emerging expectations, new
contexts and pressing issues. These included a workshop on RBC and gender at the March meeting of
the WPRBC and one on RBC and digitalisation at the WPRBC’s November meeting. A paper discussing
how the Guidelines address impacts on indigenous people was discussed at the November 2019 meeting
of the NCP Network. With increasing concerns by society about biodiversity loss and climate change, the
year 2019 also saw a growing interest on the application of the Guidelines to environmental impacts.
Finally, the Guidelines, as well as related due diligence guidance, were heavily featured in a report on child
labour, forced labour and human trafficking produced by OECD, ILO, IOM and UNICEF for the Alliance
8.7.

2.2. Gender issues in supply chains
As part of its March 2019 meeting, the Working Party on Responsible Business Conduct (WPRBC) held a
workshop on Responsible Business Conduct (RBC) and Gender. The workshop focused on gender in
supply chains and access to remedy.
Discussions coalesced around the need for a comprehensive approach to address gender discrimination
and gender related risks. Governments can promote a gender perspective through regulation as well as
trade agreements, and many companies are making gender a priority. However, company actions to
operationalise a gendered approach in due diligence is still at an early stage. The lack of data on women
in supply chains as well as good practices in a gendered perspective in due diligence is a gap which the
OECD can help address.
Accessing remedy through the NCPs affect both men and women as the network of NCPs is still not well
known. At the workshop it was highlighted that consideration should be paid to women human rights
defenders and the disadvantages that women can face in communities or the workplace. NCPs can play
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

a role by highlighting gender considerations in their promotional activities as well as considering gendered
aspects in their role as a grievance mechanism.
The workshop discussions also provided input into the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights
(UNWG) report on applying a Gender Lens to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 26.

2.3. Responsible business conduct and digitalisation
The digitalisation of global business has had a profound impact on the international economic landscape.
New phenomena such as online platforms, social media, distributed ledger technology (a.k.a. blockchain),
big data and online service providers affect business models and our understanding of what a “business”
is. Digitalisation also has a significant impact on the workplace and can affect production and distribution,
both positively and negatively. It has driven innovation in all sectors, but also contributed to the
transformation and disruption of traditional industries, making it imperative for incumbents to acquire new
digital competencies rapidly.
The implications of digitalisation for responsible business conduct are manifold. New digital tools can
accelerate development, and enable businesses to strengthen their efforts to act responsibly, in particular
as it relates to responsible supply chain management (e.g. blockchain technology to manage supply
chains, machine learning and analytics to track risk). At the same time, the digital transformation can also
lead to business causing or contributing to human rights and other social and environmental harms in new
ways (e.g. risk of bias and discrimination in the use of artificial intelligence, and human rights risks
associated with surveillance technology and the misuse of online content platforms to spread
disinformation and empower the black market).
Within this context, the OECD Secretariat, with the support of the government of the Netherlands,
conducted a workshop on 4 November 2019 to build capacity of Adherents to the WPRBC on the
implementation of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Due Diligence Guidance for
Responsible Business Conduct in relation to the digital economy. To discussion was informed by issue
papers on Artificial Intelligence 27 and Online Platform Companies 28.
Additionally, as part of the broader OECD initiative to identify good policy on the use and development of
blockchain, the Secretariat published a report on the Role of Blockchain for Supply Chain Due Diligence 29.
This report takes a critical look as to whether use of blockchain is the most appropriate solution to achieve
due diligence objectives and includes considerations for policy makers and businesses on how responsible
business conduct objectives can be integrated into emerging blockchain initiatives in a consistent and
effective way.

2.4. Addressing business impacts on the environment
The OECD Guidelines are the only international standard on RBC that is comprehensive in nature –
covering all areas of business responsibility and including a dedicated chapter on the Environment (chapter
VI), in addition to a chapter on Human Rights (Chapter IV), amongst others. Importantly, a number of the
expectations within the OECD Guidelines capture business action on climate change. These expectations
include, for example, setting targets that are consistent with international commitments (chapter VI),
disclosure of social and environmental risk reporting with a particular focus on GHG emissions (chapter III),
providing accurate, verifiable and clear information that is sufficient to enable consumers to make informed
decisions. Following the last update of the OECD Guidelines in 2011, the sectoral due diligence guidance
instruments, as well as the Due Diligence Guidance for RBC, specifically refer to environmental impacts,
For example, the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains in the Garment and
Footwear Sector includes modules on hazardous chemicals, water and greenhouse gas emissions. 30
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

| 21
Environmental protection, including protecting watersheds, and maintaining biodiversity and sustainable
management of natural resources, and promoting good agricultural practices to improve soil fertility, avoid
soil erosion, and minimise greenhouse gas emissions are some of the risk mitigation measures
recommended to companies in the OECD-FAO Guidance for Responsible Agricultural Supply Chains
(OECD-FAO Guidance). 31
The application of the Guidelines to business-related impacts on the environment has received growing
attention. An indicator for this is the increasing number of environment-related specific instances submitted
to National Contact Points (NCPs). As of the end 2019, approximately 20% of specific instances submitted
to NCPs relate to environmental impacts. The Final Statement by the Dutch NCP issued in March 2019,
related to the submission of four NGOs against ING, is of particular relevance to understand the
expectations on business to mitigate and address impacts on climate. The Statement reaffirms the
application of the “cause, contribute, directly linked” language of the OECD Guidelines to business
responsibility to address climate impacts and draws attention to the specific recommendations of the
Guidelines which frame this responsibility. 32
The Dutch NCP was invited to discuss the case in a session on human rights and climate change at the
Business and Human Rights forum held in Bangkok in June (see chapter 5). The case was also discussed
in sessions on the links between human rights and climate change held at the Regional Consultation on
Business and Human Rights in Santiago (Chile) in September, and at the UN Forum on Business and
Human Rights in Geneva, in November. The increasing interest in the use of due diligence to address
climate change impacts was also reflected in sessions held at the Forum on due diligence in the Garment
and Footwear Sector in February, and in the Responsible Minerals Forum in April.
Building on the growing awareness of the relevance of the Guidelines and due diligence guidance to
addressing global environmental impacts, the OECD organised various sessions on this topic at the 2019
United Nations Climate Conference (COP 25) held in Madrid in December 2019. One session, organised
in partnership with the Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights (OHCHR), on the business and
human rights dimension of climate change: addressing access to remedy, 33 included remarks by the UN
High Commissioner for Human Rights and the OECD Secretary General. The panel highlighted the
continued relevance of the OECD Guidelines for both human rights and climate change, as well as the role
of the NCPs. A second session, in partnership with UNFCCC, discussed Global Climate Action and
Responsible Business Conduct: What does it mean for business to act responsibly in the face of a climate
emergency? 34 which included remarks by the UNFCCC Executive Secretary Director and OECD Deputy
Secretary General. The panel highlighted the importance of RBC to climate action, with a wide range of
applications, including reducing emissions, building resilience of supply chains and investing in naturebased solutions. The OECD and UNFCCC were called on to continue collaboration in this regard.
The relevance of the Guidelines to addressing impacts on biodiversity was explored in the OECD report
on Biodiversity: Finance and the Economic Business Case for Action, 35 which was prepared for the G7
Environment Ministers’ Meeting on 5-6 May 2019 at the request of the French G7 Presidency. The report
includes a recommendation to develop a set of practical actions on due diligence and biodiversity to
support efforts by business drawing on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business
Conduct.

2.5. Impacts on indigenous peoples
In recent years, NCPs have handled a growing number of specific instances that concern business-related
impacts on the rights of indigenous peoples. To date 24 specific instances have been submitted to NCP
involving adverse impact to indigenous peoples across Latin America (e.g. Mexico, Guatemala, Ecuador,
Chile, Peru), Africa (e.g. Cameroon, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Kenya) Asia (e.g. the Philippines, Indonesia, India,
Malaysia) and Europe (Sweden). In 2019 the OECD developed a note addressing some of the key
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

challenges that NCPs have faced or are likely to face in their handling of specific instances that involve the
rights of indigenous peoples. It provides an overview of international standards regarding the rights of
indigenous peoples and the key topics being raised with NCPs and provide guidance on good practice in
engaging in dispute resolution on issues involving indigenous peoples. Secure land and resource tenure
is a key feature of international standards on the rights of indigenous peoples where indigenous peoples’
customary land tenure is impacted, and NCPs are encouraged to consult the OECD Due Diligence
Guidance on Meaningful Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractive Sector and the OECD-FAO Guidance
for Responsible Agricultural Supply Chains, which contain useful considerations for the private sector in
engaging with indigenous communities over impacts on land tenure. The guides are also useful in dealing
with consultation processes or free prior and informed consultation/consent (FPIC).

2.6. The contribution of RBC to the implementation of the Sustainable
Development Goals
The critical role of RBC for the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) has been
highlighted in a range of papers and discussions, including in the context of various editions of the Global
Forum on RBC. Implementing RBC principles and standards can help companies operationalise the
SDGs. 36 RBC standards touch upon most of the areas covered by the SDGs and provide a clear and
practical framework for business to act, including in contexts where systemic issues may be out of a
company’s direct control. RBC can help companies prioritise and address their most significant impacts,
which is particularly important considering that in a complex business environment, it may not always be
feasible to address all environmental and social issues at once. The Guidelines provide a framework for
companies to consider their entire footprint, including in the supply chain.
In 2019, the OECD - jointly with the International Labour Organization (ILO), the International Organization
for Migration (IOM) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) – released a report on Ending child
labour, forced labour and human trafficking in global supply chains. The report was elaborated under the
aegis of the Alliance 8.7, set up in 2016 to contribute to implementation of SDG 8. 37
The commitment of G20 governments to eradicate child labour, forced labour, human trafficking and
modern slavery in the world of work, including through fostering sustainable global supply chains, provided
the rationale, mandate and background to this report. For key findings, see Box 2.1
The report represents the first-ever attempt by international organisations to measure these human rights
abuses and violations in global supply chains and to overcome the challenges faced by conventional
statistics and accounting methods in face of the complexity and interconnectedness in the global markets.
Using mixed datasets, the OECD, ILO, IOM and UNICEF combined and tested a methodology so far
applied only for economic indicators and in a limited way for environmental indicators. This is the first time
has been applied in such a wide range of countries by international organisations. The results offer an
initial quantitative picture of the supply chains and reinforce that child labour, forced labour and human
trafficking affect the whole of the global supply chain. They also provide a critical foundation for further
data collection efforts aimed at generating a more granular picture of the extent, nature and location of
these violations in global supply chains. 38
The OECD also published two brochures: RBC and the Sustainable Development Goals 39 and The OECDFAO Guidance for Responsible Agricultural Supply Chains: How it can help achieve the Sustainable
Development Goals 40. Furthermore, the Secretariat provided technical advice to Adherents on the links
between RBC and implementation of the SDGs. Notably, the Social and Economic Council of the
Netherlands has issued an advisory report at the request of the Dutch Government on the relationship
between the SDGs and RBC, which underlines that RBC provides the basis for businesses to make an
effective, efficient and coherent contribution to achieving the SDGs. 41

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

| 23

Box 2.1. Key Findings – Report on Ending child labour, forced labour and human trafficking in
global supply chains
This report, elaborated under the aegis of the Alliance 8.7, presents joint research findings and
conclusions by the ILO, OECD, IOM and UNICEF on child labour, forced labour and human trafficking
in the context of global supply chains.
The report shows that nine percent of child labour from Northern Africa and Western Asia is estimated
to contribute to exports (either directly or indirectly) to other regions. This figure is more than twice as
high for Eastern and South-Eastern Asia, which are estimated to contribute 26 percent. While the results
demonstrate that a child in child labour is far more likely to be involved in production for the domestic
economy, there is however a non-negligible risk that this child will be contributing to global supply
chains. Across regions, between 28 and 43 percent of the estimated child labour that contributes to
exports does so indirectly, through preceding tiers of the supply chain (for example, extraction of raw
materials or agriculture).
Efforts against child labour in global supply chains will be inadequate if they do not extend beyond the
downstream suppliers to comprise actors in the upstream segments of supply chains, in production
activities such as raw material extraction and agriculture. Addressing child labour in production for both
domestic consumption and export will clearly be critical for achieving SDG target 8.7 by the 2025 target
date.
The report’s conclusions and recommendations set out five key priority areas for action, namely 1)
addressing child labour, forced labour and human trafficking through a whole-of-supply-chain approach;
(2) public measures to protect workers and mitigate vulnerability to child labour, forced labour and
human trafficking; (3) public governance measures to regulate business conduct and the business
environment; (4) responsible business conduct for labour and human rights; and (5) advancing
collaboration and inclusive business approaches to address child labour, forced labour and human
trafficking. The important role of RBC principles and standards, as well as ongoing due diligence efforts
by stakeholders, is critical across the five measures.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

3. National Contact Points for RBC
3.1. Introduction
Governments adhering to the Guidelines are required to set up a National Contact Point (NCP) to further
the implementation of the Guidelines. 42 NCPs have two main functions: 1) to promote the Guidelines and
handle enquiries, which means that NCPs ensure that the Guidelines and the role of the NCP are known
among relevant stakeholders and across government agencies; and 2) provide a grievance mechanism to
resolve cases ("specific instances") relating to non-observance of the recommendations of the
Guidelines. 43 The Council Recommendations relating to the due diligence guidance tools provide that
NCPs should contribute to their dissemination and active use by enterprises. 44 This unique implementation
mechanism distinguishes the Guidelines from other international RBC instruments and continues to play
a critical role in ensuring that commitments under the Guidelines are met. There are currently 49 Adherent
countries, and 48 NCPs are in place. Croatia, which became an Adherent in 2019 is in the process of
establishing an NCP.
Handling specific instances is a core pillar of the mandate of NCPs and a key feature of what makes the
Guidelines unique. 45 This mechanism has been part of the mandate of NCPs since the 2000 review of the
Guidelines. By end 2019, NCPs had handled over 500 specific instances. 46

3.2. Overview of specific instances handled in 2019
In 2019, NCPs closed 30 specific instances and received 30 new specific instances. Closed specific
instances refers both to concluded cases and those that are not accepted for further examination (see
Box 3.1). The sections below give an overview of the outcomes of closed specific instances and trends
identified for the new ones.

Box 3.1. Terminology for the status of specific instances
Specific instances closed during the year include both specific instances that have been concluded
during the year and those that were not accepted during the year.
•

Specific instances concluded during the year are those that the NCP found to merit further
examination after the initial assessment and that have subsequently been closed. For such
specific instances the NCP will have offered its “good offices” (e.g. mediation/conciliation) to
both parties.

•

Specific instances not accepted during the year are those that the NCP found not to merit
further examination and that have therefore been closed.

Specific instances that are in progress are those that are not yet closed. These include submissions
received by the NCP and under consideration, as well as those accepted by the NCP.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

| 25
Key outcomes of specific instances
Among the 30 specific instances that were closed in 2019, 24 were already in progress as of January 2019
and six new ones which were submitted during the year. Of the specific instances in progress as of January
2019, 10 were submitted prior to 2018. Table 3.1 provides an overview of closed specific instances in
2019. Out of the 30 specific instances closed in 2019, 15 were concluded and 15 were not accepted. Of
the 15 concluded cases, one was withdrawn.
Of the 15 concluded specific instances, seven underwent mediation (47%). Out of these seven cases, five
resulted in some form of agreement between the parties through the NCP process 47 and one resulted in
some form of agreement between the parties in parallel to the NCP process. This accounts for 40% of all
concluded cases (Figure 3.1) and 86% of all cases where mediation occurred, compared to 36% in 2018
and 83% respectively in 2017. One specific instance that underwent mediation did not result in agreement
despite the engagement of both parties in the process.
For eight concluded specific instances no mediation took place as the companies in question declined to
participate. In the majority of these situations the companies in question pointed to parallel proceedings as
the reason they decline to participate.

Figure 3.1. Outcomes of specific instances concluded in 2019

Box 3.2. Examples of agreement attained through the National Contact Point mechanism
Eni and Egbema Voice of Freedom: On 15 December 2017, Egbema Voice of Freedom, an NGO,
and Chima Williams Associates, a law firm, submitted a specific instance to the Italian NCP alleging
that since 1970, construction undertaken as part of oil drilling operations by ENI S.p.A., and its affiliate
ENI International BV and local subsidiary Nigeria Agip Oil Company Limited (NAOC), caused violent
flooding and has had significant adverse impacts on local communities in Mgbede, Nigeria. The specific
instance was filed on behalf of residents which were affected by the flooding. The NCP accepted the
case and organised a conciliation procedure amongst the parties. On 8 July 2019, the parties signed
Terms of Settlement which includes a detailed list of actions which will be undertaken to prevent and
mitigate flooding in the local community.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

•

Grupa OLX and Frank Bold Foundation: On 9 April 2018, the Frank Bold Foundation, an NGO,
submitted a specific instance to the NCP of Poland alleging that Grupa OLX, an internet service
company, did not observe the OECD Guidelines by allowing customers to advertise the sale of
furnaces used to burn processed oil and discarded wooden railway sleepers on its portal. The
submitter asserted that the burning of these objects violates environmental protection
provisions, as they are considered hazardous waste.

•

The NCP accepted the case and offered good offices which resulted in agreement between the
parties. As part of the agreement Frank Bold Foundation will monitor the content of
advertisements and Grupa OLX will remove advertisements which run counter to environmental
protection. Furthermore, Frank Bold Foundation will support the company in its actions aimed
at protecting the environment, aligned with environmental protection and sustainable
development principles.

•

ING Bank and NGOs: On 8 May 2017 Oxfam Novib, Greenpeace, BankTrack and Friends of
the Earth Netherlands (Milieudefensie) submitted a specific instance to the Dutch NCP asking
them to examine ING’s climate policy and to urge ING to align its climate and other policies with
the Guidelines. The NCP accepted the case and oversaw a dialogue between the parties
resulting in agreement. As part of the agreement the parties agreed that the methodology
employed by ING for measuring, target setting and steering the bank’s climate impact is a
positive development. The parties also agreed to jointly call on the Dutch Government to request
the International Energy Agency to develop two 1.5 degrees scenarios, one with and one without
the use of Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS).

•

Credit Suisse and Society for Threatened Peoples: On 28 April 2017, the Society for Threatened
Peoples (STP) submitted a specific instance to the Swiss NCP concerning Credit Suisse’s
business relationship with companies involved in the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline
in the United States. The NCP organised five mediation meetings between the parties with the
assistance of an independent mediator. On 13 September 2019, the parties reached an
agreement on several substantial points. Most notably Credit Suisse agreed to include the
concept of Free Prior Informed Consent (FPIC) in its internal sector specific policies for Oil &
Gas, Mining and Forestry & Agribusiness. Credit Suisse also agreed to inform the STP and the
Swiss NCP about the entry into force of the policy.

Type of companies involved in specific instances
The specific instances closed in 2019 involved primarily large enterprises (defined as companies
employing over 250 employees), accounting for 23 (77%) of all closed specific instances. 48 Information is
unavailable with respect to the size of the companies involved in three specific instances (10%), as three
final statements do not identify the name of the enterprises involved, while in two other specific instances,
non-corporate parties were involved (International Ice Hockey Federation and Roundtable on Sustainable
Palm Oil). Two (7%) specific instances concerned small enterprises.
Companies involved in specific instances were predominantly publically listed entities representing 17
(57%) of all closed specific instances, while privately held companies represented 9 (30%). Information on
the identity of two of the companies is unavailable (see Figure 3.2).
Fourteen specific instances (47%) involved Fortune Global 500 companies. 49 The known headquarter
locations of companies involved in specific instances cover 16 countries (Table 3.1).

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

| 27

Figure 3.2. Type of companies/organisations involved in specific instances in 2019

Table 3.1. Known headquarter locations of companies/organisations involved in specific instances
closed in 2019
Headquarter location of
company/organisation
United States
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Switzerland
Australia
France
Germany
Italy

Number of
specific
instances

Headquarter location of
company/organisation
4
3
3
3
2
2
2
2

Belgium
Brazil
Canada
Denmark
Korea, Republic of (South)
Poland
Spain
United Kingdom

Number of
specific
instances
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

Final statements
The Procedural Guidance provides that NCPs will "at the conclusion of the [specific instance] procedures
and after consultation with the parties involved, make the results of procedures publically available […]" 50.
In particular, the Commentary on the Implementation Procedures of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises provides that when the NCP "decides that the issues raised in the specific instance do not
merit further consideration, it will make a statement publicly available after consultations with the parties
involved” 51 and “if the parties fail to reach agreement or if the NCP finds that one or more of the parties to
the specific instance is unwilling to engage or to participate in good faith the NCP will make
recommendations as appropriate in the public statement.” 52 Determinations (to indicate that a company
has or has not observed the recommendations of the Guidelines) can also be made by NCPs.
Statements constitute an important tool to support the effectiveness if the Guidelines and enhance
transparency, accountability and visibility of NCPs. Substantiated decisions, recommendations and
determinations by the NCP can help companies and stakeholders better understand the Guidelines and
what steps, actions, policy measures they can take to fully observe them. Some NCPs have also shared
that, in certain contexts, the prospect of the NCP issuing a determination could be a disincentive for
companies to engage with the NCP.
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Final statements were published for 29 (97%) specific instances that were closed in 2019.
Ten of the 15 final statements published for concluded cases included recommendations (67%). 53
Recommendations are especially useful in cases where parties have not been able to engage or reach
agreement (see Box 3.3).

Box 3.3. Examples of recommendations in NCP final statements
MAERSK and Trade Union: On 27 June 2018, Trade Union N°1 of MAERSK Container Industry
submitted a specific instance to the NCP of Chile alleging that, MAERSK Container Industry, did not
observe the Guidelines in the context of its decision to close its plant in the port city of San Antonio,
which led to the dismissal of 1,200 workers.
The company declined the NCP’s offer of good offices. Consequently, the NCP published its final
statement summarising the proceedings and recommending that the company:
•

Evaluate its procedures and policies related to decisions that have significant impacts on the
livelihood of its workers, such as the closure of a plant leading to a collective dismissal.

•

Implement improvements in consultation and cooperation procedures between the enterprise
and its employees, especially on issues that have impacts on the employees’ functions and their
livelihood.

Mercer PR and Australian Women Without Borders: On 27 October 2016, Australian Women Without
Borders (AWWB), an NGO, submitted a specific instance to the Australian NCP alleging that Mercer
PR had breached the Human Rights chapter of the Guidelines through distribution of the personal
information of an alleged sexual assault victim.
A joint facilitated discussion was originally agreed to, but Mercer PR later withdrew its agreement to
participate. On 9 July 2019, the NCP concluded the case and issued a final statement. The final
statement notes that while Mercer PR is a very small enterprise, the Australian Government expects
that all Australian enterprises operating overseas meet its standards, including the OECD Guidelines
and recommends that Mercer PR’s executive undertake human rights training.
DIAM and Birlesik Metal-Is: On 2 August 2017 the French NCP received a specific instance from the
Turkish trade union Birlesik Metal-Is concerning the alleged non-observance of the Guidelines by the
DIAM INTERNATIONAL SAS Group (DIAM Group). The case was concerned an industrial dispute that
allegedly resulted in the dismissal of a large number of workers and anti-union bias.
The NCP determined that following the dialogue, DIAM Group improved its due diligence policy,
however shortcomings still existed with respect to a number of the Guidelines’ recommendations. The
NCP concluded that DIAM Group “must strengthen its due diligence vis-à-vis its Turkish subsidiary to
achieve full compliance with the Guidelines.” The NCP also recommended improved social dialogue,
establishment and contribution to remediation schemes and rapid implementation of an action plan
which would allow workers to elect their own representatives and begin consultations on matters of
mutual concern.
Determinations of whether an enterprise observed or did not observe the Guidelines were included in three
final statements (20% of all final statements published for concluded cases and 10% of all final statements
published in 2019). 54

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

| 29

Box 3.4. Examples of determinations in NCP final statements
British American Tobacco (BAT) and IUF: On 27 April 2016, the International Union of Food,
Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers’ Associations (IUF) and the Farm
Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC) submitted a specific instance to the UK NCP alleging that British
American Tobacco (BAT) was linked to abuses of migrant farmworkers in the United States and did not
meet its obligations to help end these abuses.
In its final statement the UK NCP determined that BAT met the obligations set out under chapter II,
paragraph 10 and 12 (calling on enterprises to carry out due diligence and avoid causing or contributing
to adverse impacts through their activities) and chapter IV, paragraphs 1, 3 and 5 of the Guidelines
(calling on enterprises to respect human rights and carry out human rights due diligence).
The UK NCP also recognised that while BAT has met the obligations which were the basis of IUF and
FLOC’s complaint, there were still issues which need to be addressed by the company to ensure that
these are acted on appropriately. In this respect it recommended that if it had not already done so BAT
should establish objective standards of living and working conditions for migrant workers, ensure
Responsible Investment in Agriculture and Food Systems (RAI) processes for managing the well-being
of agricultural workers employed in its supply chain are fit for purpose, and use the OECD Due Diligence
Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct for this purpose.*
*A

request for a procedural review of the handling of this case was submitted by IUF and FLOC in April 2019. A review committee was
established from among the members of the UK NCP Steering Board which did not uphold the grounds for the complaint made about UK
NCP procedure. See https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/iuf-and-floc-complaint-to-uk-ncp-about-bat/review-of-final-statement-iufand-floc-complaint-to-uk-ncp-about-bat

Follow-up
Following up on recommendations in final statements can be a valuable exercise in ensuring agreements
reached through specific instance proceedings are implemented and in tracking whether recommendations
are being implemented. In some situations, follow-up has resulted in stronger relationships between the
parties and additional positive outcomes
In 2019, the NCPs of Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, and the United Kingdom issued
follow-up statements relating to seven specific instances. In many of them the NCPs noted positive
changes and that their recommendations had been implemented. In one case, the NCP introduced
potential consequences for non-action of the company (see Box 3.5). In addition, plans for follow up or
monitoring of recommendations was included in final statements for 10 out of 15 concluded specific
instances (67%).

Box 3.5. Examples of Follow-up in NCP specific instances
Banro and former employees: On 26 February 2016, a specific instance was submitted to the Canadian
NCP by a group of five former employees of the Société Minière et Industrielle du Kivu (SOMINKI)
located in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The submitters claimed that Banro failed to settle
the final accounts of 4,987 former employees of SOMINKI following the creation of SAKIMA SARL (93%
owned by Banro) in 1997 and transfer of SOMINKI’s mining assets to SAKIMA. The NCP concluded
and made a series of recommendations, including that the company make all efforts to engage with the
government of the DRC to resolve the issues raised. Despite persistent efforts from the NCP, the

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

company failed to provide adequate information that it implemented the recommendations. In its follow
up statement the NCP notes that due to corporate restructuring it is unclear whether the company
retains meaningful economic ties to Canada. However, it notes that should the company qualify as a
Canadian Trade Commissioner Service (TCS) client in the future, its lack of constructive engagement
during this follow up stage of the process should be taken into consideration.
DPDHL Group and ITF and UNI: On 25 November 2019, the German NCP signed a revised cooperation
between Deutsche Post DHL and global union federations International Transport Workers Federation
(ITF) and UNI Global Union. The structured cooperation between the parties has been ongoing since
the successful conclusion of a specific instance handled by the German NCP involving the parties in
2014. According to a press release by the DPDHL Group “[t]he DPDHL Group, ITF and UNI believe
that being under the auspices of the German National Contact Point […] has provided an exceptional
framework to build mutual trust and foster positive relationships over the years […] The collaboration
between all parties has been significant in 2019 and relationships continue to develop and strengthen.
In addition to the regular dialogue between the parties, several workshops were conducted to evolve
the existing OECD Protocol and include reference to potential future challenges in Employee Relations.’

Specific instances not accepted for further examination
As noted above, 15 specific instances (50%) of specific instances closed in 2019 were not accepted for
further examination. This represents a decrease from the record 58% in 2018, but is still the second highest
rate of non-acceptance since 2000.
The main reason for not accepting specific instances in 2019, in 7 specific instances, (47%) was that the
NCP considered that the submission would not further the purpose or effectiveness of the Guidelines.
In some instances non-accepted specific instances raised issues already considered by other NCPs. In
others they related to issues arising many years back.
Stakeholders have noted that accessibility is a particular challenge for complainants bringing forward
specific instances to NCPs. One of the principal ways in which accessibility is perceived to be restricted is
through imposing a high threshold for acceptance of specific instance for further examination at the initial
assessment stage.

Figure 3.3. Reasons for non-acceptance of specific instances in 2019

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

| 31
Duration of procedures
The Commentary on the Implementation Procedures provides an indicative timeframe of three months for
completing the initial assessment 55. Of the 30 specific instances closed in 2019, an initial assessment was
completed within three months in only 4 cases (13%). In 10 specific instances (33%) the initial assessment
took between 3-6 months. In 7 specific instances (23%) it exceeded one year. NCPs have identified this
timeframe as a challenge. On the other hand, stakeholders have identified delays in the assessment as a
shortcoming of the mechanism, and noted that completing this process sooner would make the system
more impactful and effective.
The Commentary on the Implementation Procedures provides that “as a general principle, NCPs should
strive to conclude the procedure within 12 months from receipt of the specific instance. It is recognised
that this timeframe may need to be extended if circumstances warrant it, such as when the issues arise in
a non-adhering country.” 56 In 2019, in 13 (43%) closed specific instances, proceedings were concluded
within a year. In 16 specific instances (53%), proceedings lasted for over a year, and in 8 of these cases
they lasted several years. In some cases the delay can be attributed to the complexity of the issues raised
and need for multiple mediation meetings.

Summary of closed specific instances
An overview of all closed specific instances including the leading NCP, host countries, duration and final
outcomes is available in Table 3.2 below.

Table 3.2. Status of closed specific instances in 2019
Specific instance

Lead NCP

Host
country(ies)

Year
submittedclosed

1

Tenaris S.A. and Flavia Di Cino

Argentina

Argentina

2017-2019

2

Mercer PR and Australian Women Without
Borders

Australia

Republic of Nauru

2016-2019

3

Deutsche Bank Australia and Mr. Robert Palin

Australia

Germany

2019-2019

4

Coca-Cola Amatil and International Union of Food,
Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco
and Allied Workers' Associations (IUF)
KBL European Private Bankers S.A. Luxembourg
and KBC Belgium, and Open Secrets, and CALS
Vale and BHP Biliton and SITICOP, CNQ-CUT,
BWI, and IndustriALL

Australia

Indonesia

2019-2019

Belgium

South Africa

2018-2019

Brazil

Brazil

2018-2019

Murchison Minerals Ltd. and three Former
Employees
MAERSK Container Industry and Trade Union
Number 1 of MAERSK Container Industry

Canada

Burundi

2018-2019

Chile

Chile

2018-2019

Subsidiary of a French bank and an individual in
Cameroon
DIAM International and Birlesik Metal-Is in Turkey

France

Cameroon

2018-2019

France

Turkey

2017-2019

5
6
7
8
9
10

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

Status

Concluded without
agreement between
the parties.
Concluded without
agreement between
the parties.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Concluded without
agreement between
the parties.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Concluded without
agreement between
the parties.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Concluded without
agreement between
the parties.

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Specific instance

11
12
13
14
15

German company and individuals concerning
employment and environmental issues in the
Democratic Republic of Congo
ENI S.p.A., ENI International BV, and CWA and
ACA

Germany

Host
country(ies)

Year
submittedclosed
2019-2019

Not accepted for
further examination.

Italy

2017-2019

Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. and Lady Lawyer
Foundation (LLF)
Ball Beverage Packaging Italia and FIOM-CGIL

Italy

Italy

2019-2019

Italy

Italy

2018-2019

KEXIM, Daewoo E&C and JRPM, PSPD, KTNC
WATCH

Korea, Republic
of (South)

Philippines

2018-2019

Concluded with
agreement between
parties.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Not accepted for
further examination.

Lead NCP

Host
country(ies)

Year
submittedclosed

KBC Belgium and KBL European Private Bankers
S.A. Luxembourg, and Open Secrets, and CALS
PHARMAKINA SA and PHARMEG SA, and former
employees

Luxembourg

South Africa

2018-2019

Luxembourg

2019-2019

18

ING Bank and NGOs concerning climate policy

Netherlands

Democratic
Republic of the
Congo
Netherlands

19

Bralima, Heineken N.V., and Kajangu

Netherlands

2018-2019

20

Doe Run Peru S.R.L., The Renco Group Inc., and
Cooperaccion, Oxfam America in Peru and Oxfam
America in Washington and other NGOs
Human rights and bribery issues involving a U.S.
multinational in the hotel industry in Peru (Marriot
International Inc. and Quechua People)"
Grupa OLX and Frank Bold Foundation

Peru

Democratic
Republic of the
Congo
Peru

Peru

Peru

2018-2019

Poland

Poland

2018-2019

17

21
22

2017-2019

2011-2019

23

Group PZU S.A. and Development YES – OpenPit Mines NO Foundation

Poland

Poland

2018-2019

24

Environment and indigenous issues in Guatemala
concerning a Spanish NGO and a Spanish
construction Multinational
Human Resources policy of a multinational firm
operating in Spain
Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil and TUK
Indonesia: Land Conflict in Indonesia

Spain

Guatemala

2017-2019

Spain

Spain

2018-2019

Switzerland

Indonesia

2018-2019

International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) and the
Polish Ice Hockey Players Association
Crédit Suisse and Society for Threatened Peoples
Switzerland (North Dakota Access Pipeline)

Switzerland

Poland

2019-2019

Switzerland

United States

2017-2019

Putzmeister Makina San ve Tic. A.S. and the
Turkish Metal Union (Türk Metal)

Turkey

Turkey

2017-2019

25
26
27
28
29

Status

Democratic
Republic of the
Congo
Nigeria

Specific instance

16

Lead NCP

Status

Not accepted for
further examination.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Concluded with
agreement between
parties.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Concluded without
agreement between
the parties.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Concluded with
agreement between
parties.
Concluded with
agreement between
parties.
Concluded without
agreement between
the parties.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Concluded with
agreement between
parties.
Not accepted for
further examination.
Concluded with
agreement between
parties.
Concluded without
agreement between
the parties.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

| 33

3.3. Trends of new specific instances
A total of 30 new specific instances were submitted to NCPs in 2019 compared to 52 submitted in 2018.
This represents a decrease in submissions based on historical rates of submissions since 2000 (see
Figure 3.4.)

Figure 3.4. Number of specific instances submitted annually 2000-2019

In 2019, 16 NCPs received specific instance submissions, representing 36% of all NCPs (Table 3.3). This
is a significant decrease from 2018 where 25 NCPs (52%) received new submissions.

Table 3.3. Number of specific instances received by NCPs in 2019
National Contact Point

Number of specific
instances

National Contact Point

Number of specific
instances

Chile

8

France

1

Netherlands

4

Germany

1

Korea, Republic of (South)

3

Hungary

1

Australia

2

Italy

1

Switzerland

2

Luxembourg

1

Belgium

1

Morocco

1

Denmark

1

Turkey

1

Finland

1

United Kingdom

1

At the end of 2019, the status of the 30 specific instances submitted was the following: 24 were in progress
(initial assessment had not yet been completed) and 6 had been closed and not accepted for further
examination (see Figure 3.5).

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Figure 3.5. Status of specific instances submitted in 2019

The Commentary on the Implementation Procedures provides that the NCP of the host country should
consult with the NCP of the home country in its efforts to assist the parties in resolving the issues. 57 It also
provides that when issues arise from an enterprise’s activity that takes place in several Adherent countries
or from the activity of a group of enterprises organised as a consortium, joint venture or similar form, based
in different Adherent countries, the lead NCP should consult with other NCPs. 58 Currently, 16 specific
instances (53%) submitted in 2019 are being handled with the help of supporting NCPs.

Specific instances by industry sectors
The most prevalent sectors referenced in specific instances submitted in 2019 were financial and insurance
activities, manufacturing and wholesale retail and trade accounting for five submissions each (17% of all
submitted cases respectively), followed by accommodation and food service, mining and quarrying and
other service activities accounting for 3 submissions each (10% of all submitted cases respectively). The
high rate of submissions from the financial, extractives and manufacturing sectors reflect recent trends
(See Figure 3.6.)

Figure 3.6. Specific instances submitted in 2019 by industry sector

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

| 35
Chapters of the Guidelines cited in specific instances
The chapter on Human Rights was the most frequently referenced chapter: 19 of the specific instances
submitted (63%), followed by the chapters on General Policies (which includes recommendations on due
diligence), and on Employment and Industrial Relations. The Human Rights chapter has been the chapter
most often referenced in specific instances since its introduction in 2011 review of the Guidelines (see
Figure 3.7.)
This year saw a decrease in submissions referencing the chapter on General Policies, accounting for 50%
of new submissions, down from 63% last year. This year also saw an increase in submissions referencing
the Tax chapter of the Guidelines: 3 submission (10%) compared to about 2% of all specific instances
handled from 2000-2018.

Figure 3.7. Specific instances by Guidelines chapter in 2019

Host countries
Specific instances submitted in 2019 dealt with issues involving companies in 20 host countries. 10 (33%)
of the specific instances submitted in 2019 address issues arising in one of the 49 Adherent countries and
19 (63%) address issues arising in non-adherent countries. Information on the host country is not available
for one specific instance. In total, since the year 2000 NCPs have handled specific instances involving
issues arising in over 100 countries and territories.

Submitters of specific instances
Trade Unions and individuals were the primary submitters accounting for 8 (27%) submissions each. NGOs
accounted for 7 (23%) of submissions (Figure 3.8.)
). This year submissions were also filed by companies regarding the conduct of other companies, and in
one situation, a specific instance was initiated by a government actor. Information about affiliation of
submitters is missing for two cases.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Figure 3.8. Submitters of specific instances in 2019

3.4. NCP structures and activities
Structures and locations
As established by the Decision on the Guidelines, while Adherent governments have flexibility in how to
structure their NCP, they are under an obligation to make available human and financial resources to their
National Contact Points so that they can effectively fulfil their responsibilities. 59 Key among these
responsibilities is:
•

seeking the active support of social partners;

•

dealing with the broad range of issues covered by the Guidelines;

•

operating in an impartial manner; and

•

developing and maintaining relations with stakeholders. 60

Governments are also expected to ensure that their NCP can operate in accordance with the core criteria
of visibility, accessibility, transparency and accountability. 61 When handling specific instances, NCPs
should also observe the principles of impartiality, predictability, equitability and compatibility with the
Guidelines. 62

Overview of NCP structures
In 2019, most NCPs were set up according to the following types of structure: 63
•

Single agency NCP: The NCP is composed of one individual in a single ministry, or by a group of
individuals belonging to the same service in the same ministry.
o

In 2019, there were 19 single agency NCPs: Argentina, Austria, Chile, Colombia, Estonia,
Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Poland,
Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, and the United States.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

| 37
•

Inter-agency NCP: The NCP is composed of a group of representatives from several ministries or
government agencies.
o

•

Multipartite NCP: The NCP is composed of a group of government officials and stakeholder
representatives.
o

•

In 2019, there were 13 inter-agency NCPs: Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, Egypt, Germany,
Hungary, Japan, Morocco, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, and Switzerland.

In 2019, there were nine multipartite NCPs. Five were tripartite, i.e. they include representatives
of government, business and trade unions (Belgium, France, Latvia, Sweden and Tunisia).
Four were quadripartite, including representatives of civil society organisations (Czech
Republic, Finland, Kazakhstan and the Slovak Republic).

Expert-based NCPs: The NCP is composed of experts who are appointed by, but external to, the
government. These NCPs are generally set up as entities independent of the government, although
they are dependent upon the government for funding. Experts may be required to act in a personal
capacity and not to represent particular interests or on the contrary may represent the views of the
organisations that nominated them.
o

In 2019, there were four expert-based NCPs: Norway, Denmark, Lithuania and the
Netherlands.

In addition, the NCPs of Australia and Korea were set up under a hybrid structure composed of elements
derived from different models above (see Box 3.6. below), namely single-agency and expert-based
(Australia), or inter-agency and expert-based (Korea).
Each Adherent government can also decide on the location of its NCP, bearing in mind the core criteria for
functional equivalence. This location is either that of the NCP itself (for single-agency NCPs) or, for NCPs
that are set up as committees meeting intermittently (inter-agency, multipartite, expert-based), the location
of their permanent office or Secretariat handling the daily management of NCP affairs (receiving inquiries
and specific instances, organising or participating to promotional events, preparing NCP decisions, etc.).
In 2019:
•

33 NCPs were located in Ministries with an economic portfolio (i.e. Ministries of Economy, Trade,
Industry, Investment, Business, etc.);

•

10 NCPs were located in Ministries of Foreign Affairs;

•

3 NCPs were located in Investment Promotion Agencies (Figure 3.9)

In addition, the Secretariat of the NCP of Korea is located in a private entity, the Korea Commercial
Arbitration Board (see Box 3.6).
Over the course of 2019, two NCPs made changes to their structure. Australia completed the reform of its
NCP, so that cases are now handled by an independent examiner, whereas the rest of the mandate of the
NCP is exercised by a team of government officials from the Department of Treasury (Box 3.6). The
Kazakh NCP transitioned from an inter-agency structure to a multipartite structure composed of ministries,
business, trade union and civil society organisations, as well as an independent research centre. The
secretariat of the NCP is now located in the trade and investment promotion agency (QazTrade).

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Figure 3.9. Locations of NCPs

In 2019, Tunisia continued with the setting up of its tripartite NCP, which was formally re-established in
2018 by decision of the Minister for Development, Investment and International Cooperation.
In addition, five Adherents (Brazil, Greece, Poland, Slovenia and Chile) reported changes to the location
of their NCP.

Box 3.6. ‘Hybrid’ NCP structures
Australia’s hybrid single agency/expert-based NCP structure
Following changes in 2019, the Australian NCP is managed by a senior official and supported by a
Secretariat, in the Department of the Treasury. The senior official is responsible for all decision-making
on behalf of the NCP except for specific instances.
In 2019, an individual Independent Examiner was appointed to handle all Specific Instance-related
work. The Independent Examiner also undertakes promotional activities.
The Australian NCP now also has a Governance and Advisory Board, which oversees the work of the
NCP, provides advice on its activities, and contributes to promotional work.
Korea’s hybrid inter-agency/expert-based NCP structure
The Korean NCP is set up as a hybrid inter-agency/expert-based body chaired by an official from the
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, and composed of officials from various ministries and experts.
The body is complemented by a Mediation Committee composed of three to five members of the NCP
or other relevant external experts elected by the NCP. The chair of the NCP appoints the chair of the
Mediation Committee among the NCP members.
The NCP’s Secretariat is located in the Korean Commercial Arbitration Board (KCAB), a private
alternative dispute resolution institution.

Rules of procedure for the handling of specific instances
Having clear rules of procedure is an important way to ensure a predictable process to resolve cases and
to build trust among stakeholders. NCPs have made important progress in this regard over the years. 39
NCPs have made rules of procedures available online, compared to 38 in 2018, with Slovenia making their

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

| 39
rules of procedure available online in 2019. Moreover, 11 NCPs modified their rules of procedure (Australia,
Chile, Finland, France, Germany, Israel, Morocco, Poland, Slovenia, Turkey and the United Kingdom),
indicating that many NCPs are also refining their rules of procedure to ensure a more consistent approach
to case-handling across the NCP network.

Reporting
As part of the core criteria for functional equivalence, NCPs are required to be accountable. Under the
Procedural Guidance, NCPs must report annually to the OECD Investment Committee 64 and may
communicate on a regular basis to Government and/or Parliament. Such reporting can be an important
means to raise the internal profile of NCPs within their Governments and to ensure that budgetary
challenges that the NCPs may face can be addressed. In 2019:
•
•

34 NCPs reported on their activities to their Government, and 13 reported to Parliament. 65
All except one NCP (Jordan) reported on their activities in 2019 to the OECD; this was also the
case for Jordan in 2018.

Meeting attendance
NCPs are required to meet regularly to share experience, in particular by attending the two annual
meetings of the NCP Network at the OECD. 66
In 2019, a total of 45 NCPs attended the meeting of the NCP Network in June and 41 attended in
November. One NCP (Jordan) did not attend either of the two NCP meetings in 2019, compared to three
in 2018 (including Jordan).

Stakeholders as part of the institutional arrangements
Stakeholders can be formally integrated into the institutional arrangements of the NCP, for example as
members of the NCP or on the NCPs’ advisory or oversight bodies. Including key stakeholders – such as
workers’ organisations, civil society organisations and the business community – as part of the NCP’s
institutional arrangement can serve to enhance the expertise available to the NCP and may render it easier
to maintain relations with stakeholders, to seek their support, and ultimately to gain and retain their
confidence.

Oversight and advisory bodies
To promote impartiality of the NCPs, the Commentary on the Implementation Procedures of the OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises recommends that NCPs establish multi-stakeholder advisory
and/or oversight bodies. 67 While these do not normally form part of the NCP and do not have decisionmaking power on accepting or concluding specific instances, they can provide important advice to the NCP
on a range of issues, including general strategy of the NCP, promotional plan, stakeholder engagement,
general guidance on handling specific instances (e.g. advice on rules of procedure, updates on cases
received and concluded, etc.).
In 2019, 20 NCPs had an advisory body, compared to 18 in 2018. This shows that NCPs are increasingly
including stakeholders in their structure, and thereby creating opportunities for strengthening engagement
and building confidence with stakeholders. Four of these advisory bodies also provided oversight to the
NCP (Australia, Austria, Chile, and the United Kingdom). 68
In practice, the structures and mandates of current advisory and oversight bodies across the NCP Network
vary significantly. For instance, NCP advisory bodies are composed of different types of stakeholders:
some are composed only of government representatives, others are composed of ‘external’ stakeholders

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

(business alone; business and workers’ organisations; business, workers’ organisations and civil society
organisations), and others are composed of both government and stakeholders. Certain NCPs also include
other actors such as National Human Rights Institutions or ‘unaffiliated’ independent experts (such as
academics) on their advisory boards.
Argentina, Australia and Slovenia reported having established an advisory body in 2019 (Table 3.4),
whereas Kazakhstan discontinued its advisory body in 2019 due to its transition to a multi-stakeholder
structure (see above).

Table 3.4. NCP advisory bodies created in 2019
NCP
Argentina

Australia

Slovenia

Composition

Substance of advice

Frequency of meetings

Business,
Trade unions
NGOs
Academia
Government
Business
Trade unions
NGOs
Business
Trade unions
NGOs
Academia

Specific instances
Promotion

Biannually

General matters
Promotion
Specific instances
Oversight
General matters

Biannually (at least)

3 times a year

NCP resources
As established by the Decision on the Guidelines, adhering Governments have a legal obligation to
establish an NCP and to ensure that it has the human and financial resources to effectively promote the
Guidelines and handle the broad range of specific instances that it may receive. In June 2017, the OECD
Ministerial Council Statement, entitled “Making globalisation work: better lives for all” committed to “having
fully functioning and adequately resourced National Contact Points”. 69 In 2019, the Ministerial Council
discussed a Progress Report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct that presented
key facts and figures, as well as recommendations, in relation to that commitment (see Box 3.7).
In 2019:
•

17 NCPs reported having both dedicated full-time and part-time staff

•

7 NCPs reported having full-time staff only

•

21 NCPs had part-time staff only

•

1 NCP had no dedicated staff 70

Furthermore, frequent turnover of staff continues to present a challenge to NCPs in terms of ensuring
institutional memory and handling ongoing specific instances. In 2019:
•

28 NCPs reported that 44 new staff members had joined

•

24 NCPs reported that 29 staff members had left

Therefore, even though absolute staff resources throughout the network have increased in 2019, turnover
has remained frequent, as the majority of NCPs reported staff changes.
With regards financial resources:
•

18 NCPs had access to a dedicated budget for their activities.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

| 41
•

11 NCPs reported that the financial resources available to them were not sufficient to conduct
promotional activities.

•

One NCP that handled specific instances in 2019 also reported that resources available were not
sufficient to handle cases in a timely and effective manner.

•

45 NCPs noted that funds were available to them for attending NCP meetings at the OECD.

As noted by the Progress Report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct delivered
to the OECD Ministerial Council in 2019, insufficient human and financial resources continues to be a
major concern for NCPs. 71 The lack of full-time staff, and the fact that many NCP officials have other duties
and only devote a portion of their time to NCP work, was highlighted in the report as an issue. Even though
working on other RBC-relevant issues alongside NCP duties may be beneficial in terms of policy
coherence, this may also limit the official’s ability to actively promote the Guidelines and the NCP, or to
handle cases in a timely and efficient manner as mandated by the Guidelines, particularly as case
complexity is only set to increase. As a result, the Progress Report recommended that governments
“ensure the provision of financial and human resources commensurate with the scope of the role of NCPs
and the heightened complexity of their work.” 72

Box 3.7. Progress report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct
The Progress Report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct submitted to the
2019 OECD’s Ministerial Council Meeting (MCM) addresses the need for more government support
and resources to ensure that National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct (NCPs) reach
their full potential.
The report responds to a commitment made by Ministers at the MCM in 2017 to have “fully functioning
and adequately resourced National Contact Points, and to undertake a peer learning, capacity building
exercise or a peer review by 2021, with the aim of having all countries peer reviewed by 2023”. It
documents progress made and sets out recommendations to Adherent governments that act as a useful
roadmap for action:
•

Ensure that financial and human resources match the scope of the role of NCPs and the
heightened complexity of their work.

•

Ensure that NCPs enjoy the necessary support and visibility within their government to carry
out their functions effectively and promote policy coherence on RBC.

•

Ensure that the composition of NCPs is such that they can carry out their functions impartially
and without risk of conflict of interest – or a perception thereof.

In addition, all governments are encouraged to volunteer for a peer review of their NCP and those
governments whose NCPs have undergone a peer review are called on to implement to the extent
possible the recommendations, and report on progress made.

3.5. Promotion of the Guidelines
Ensuring that NCPs are visible requires sustained efforts to raise awareness among the business
community, worker organisations, civil society organisations and other interested parties. An important
function of NCPs is to promote awareness of the OECD Guidelines and the due diligence guidance that
offers tools to the private sector on how to do business responsibly.
NCPs also play a critical role in supporting the wide dissemination of the 2018 OECD Due Diligence
Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct which provides practical guidance on the key elements of
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

supply chain due diligence. In particular, the Council Recommendation specifically recommends that NCPs
“ensure the widest possible dissemination of the Guidance and its active use by enterprises, as well as
promote the use of the Guidance as a resource for stakeholders”. 73 To facilitate the broad uptake of the
guidance several NCPs are also in the process of translating it into other languages (Box 3.8).

Box 3.8. Examples of events organised by NCPs to promote the Guidelines and due diligence
guidance
Launch events of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct in
Japanese and Spanish
In 2019, two large scale events were organised to launch the Spanish and Japanese versions of the
Due Diligence Guidance for RBC. On 3-4 June, the government of Argentina organised the first
Regional Forum on National Action Plans and Public Policies on Business and Human Rights, where
the Argentinian NCP and the OECD Secretariat collaborated in launching the Spanish version of the
OECD Due Diligence Guidance on RBC before an audience of more than 400 participants,
representatives from the regional and national level of governments, businesses, academia and civil
society organizations. The Spanish NCP and NCPs from Latin America collaborated with the OECD
Secretariat in translating the Guidance. On 7 June, the Japanese NCP and the OECD Secretariat
collaborated with Business Policy Forum Japan in organising a symposium on ‘implementing
Responsible Business and Human Rights expectations and standards in Japan’, where the Japanese
version of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct was launched in front
of a large audience of large and mid-cap companies. Other OECD due diligence tools, notably guidance
developed for the financial sector were presented. The Japanese NCP and the OECD Secretariat
collaborated in translating the Guidance. These two events were supported by the RBC LAC project,
and the Responsible Supply Chains in Asia project.
Radio show by the Lithuanian NCP
As part of the Lithuanian CSR Action Plan coordinated by Ministry of Social Security and Labour and in
which the Lithuanian NCP is closely involved, the Chair of the NCP appeared in October in a 20 minute
segment on the national News Radio on the theme “What is a socially responsible company”. Questions
addressed were the definition of RBC (including the difference with philanthropy) and the role of the
NCP under the Guidelines, how companies can use RBC to gain a market advantage, the reason why
RBC is becoming an increasingly important concern across society, and the RBC performance of
Lithuanian companies as compared to those of other countries. This event allowed to inform a large
national audience on RBC and the NCP at minimal cost.
Partnership of the Costa Rican NCP with the ‘Essential Costa Rica’ Country Brand
In 2019, the Costa Rican NCP partnered with the Export Promotion Agency (PROCOMER) in order to
advise SMEs applying for the ‘Essential Costa Rica’ Country Brand, which requires firms to integrate
sustainability and RBC in their business models. In the second semester of 2019, the Costa Rican NCP
joined PROCOMER’s missions in the country to reach SMEs outside the Metropolitan Area and
developed a dedicated brochure and specific information for SMEs.
In 2019, NCPs continued to take important steps in promoting both the Guidelines and due diligence
guidance. In 2019, a total of 201 events were organised or co-organised by 35 NCPs. This represents an
increase from 2018, when 184 events were organised or co-organised by 34 NCPs (see Figure 3.10 below
for evolution since 2015).
Twelve NCPs did not organise or co-organise any promotional events in 2019, compared to fourteen in
2018. 74
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

| 43

Figure 3.10. Promotional events organised by or involving NCPs (2015-2019)

The types of events ranged from training, official meetings with stakeholders, annual meetings with
stakeholders to report on NCP activities, meetings with government or stakeholder representatives on a
specific topic, larger conferences on topics such as due diligence and responsible supply chains across
different economic sectors, radio interviews or even responsible fashion shows. In 2019, 26 NCPs (55%
of NCPs) hosted an annual meeting with stakeholders, similar to 2018.
In addition to organising or co-organising events, 38 NCPs reported taking part in a total of 262 events
organised by others, during which they participated in presentations, panels and discussions. This is
relatively stable compared to 2018, when 37 NCPs participated to 269 events, but still significantly less
than the 405 events in which NCPs participated in 2017. A total of eight NCPs did not participate in any
promotional event, compared to 11 in 2018.
Five NCPs did not organise, co-organise, nor participate in any promotional event (Egypt, Estonia, Iceland,
Kazakhstan, and the Slovak Republic), compared to six in 2018.
Since 2015, the number of NCPs that organised promotional events grew from 24 in 2015 to 35 in 2019
(see Figure 3.11). The number of NCPs participating in events has also increased, although the number
of events in which NCPs participated decreased. In 2019, 38 NCPs participated in events, up from 29 in
2015 (see Figure 3.11).

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

Figure 3.11. Number of NCPs that organised or participated in events (2015-2019)

In 2019, 45% of reported events organised or co-organised by NCPs or in which NCP participated, were
targeted to a multi-stakeholder audience. 24% of all events were targeted to government representatives
and 19% to business representatives. Academia, civil society and trade unions were more marginally
targeted by NCPs, with respectively 5, 4 and 3% of all events addressed to these groups (Figure 3.12),
although some NCPs organised large-scale events targeted at minority groups (see Box 3.9).
The large majority of reported NCP events had an audience size of 10 to 50 participants (45%), followed
by events with 50 to 100 participants (22%) or less than 10 participants (19%). Interestingly, 14% of events
(i.e. a total of 57 events) had an audience of more than 100 (Figure 1.13). This represents a significant
increase in the reach and impact of NCP promotion compared to 2018 when, out of a comparable number
of events, 40% had an audience of less than 10, 37% of 10 to 50, 14% of 50 to 100 and 9% of more
than 100.

Figure 3.12. Target audience at NCP events

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

| 45

Box 3.9. NCP engagement with minority groups
In June, the Norwegian NCP and NHRI together arranged a seminar to discuss natural resource
development, business and the rights of indigenous peoples. The seminar was held in Karasjok,
Norway, the seat of the Sámi parliament. The event, and brought together a diversity of perspectives
with representatives from business, Sami communities, local governments and other stakeholders.
Drawing from concrete cases, including the case relating to Statkrafts’ construction of wind parks in the
Sámi village of Jijnjevaerie in Sweden, handled by the Swedish and Norwegian NCPs, concrete
examples of how conflicts and dialogue are dealt with in practice were presented, both from the
perspective of business and of the impacted Sámi communities. Challenges, lessons learnt and best
practices for RBC and consultation with Indigenous peoples on mitigation measures were also
discussed. Additionally, the Norwegian NCP launched the Norwegian and Sámi language versions of
the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractive Sector.

Figure 3.13. Size of audience at NCP events

A total of 27 NCPs reported having a promotional plan in place for 2020, setting out target activities and
audiences over the coming year. This number represents a sharp decrease from the previous year, when
38 NCPs reported having a promotional plan.
In addition to promotional events, several NCPs also participate in advisory groups supporting sector
projects on responsible business conduct led by the OECD. See Table 3.5 below and Chapter 2 for further
information.

Table 3.5. NCP participation in advisory groups to OECD sector projects
RBC Sector Projects

NCP Participation in Advisory Groups

Agriculture

Belgium, Chile, Costa Rica, France, Germany, Italy,
Norway, Peru, Switzerland

Financial
Garment and Footwear
Minerals

Canada, Sweden, Switzerland, UK
Canada, France, Italy, Sweden
Belgium, Switzerland

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

Accessibility of information – NCP websites
Although there is no specific requirement for NCPs to have a website, an important aspect of being visible
is online presence through a dedicated website where rules of procedures and regular updates about NCP
activities and specific instance outcomes are made public. For many stakeholders, NCP websites have
served as a principal point of contact for submitting specific instances.
•

A total of 44 NCPs have dedicated websites or dedicated webpages on the Ministry’s website that
provide information about the Guidelines and the NCP, including contact information for reaching
the mechanism. 75

•

18 NCPs reported creating new or improved websites in 2019.

Peer-learning
The Commentary on the Implementation Procedures provides that “NCPs will engage in joint peer learning
activities.” 76 Peer learning takes place in a variety of forms. NCPs typically engage in peer learning at the
June and November meetings of the network of NCPs at the OECD headquarters, or during peer learning
events hosted by one or several NCPs. In 2019, the practice of forming regional networks of NCPs for the
purpose of peer learning intensified (Box 3.10).

Box 3.10. Regional NCP networks
The 2019-21 Action Plan to Strengthen NCPs (see below) proposes to take advantage of regional
networks of NCPs to complement NCP-organised peer learning events, or meetings of the NCP
network. This allows NCPs from the same region can gather to discuss issues of joint interest and build
capacity together. To date regional networks in the German-speaking, Nordic-Baltic, Central and
Eastern European (CEE), and Latin American (LAC) regions have been created, the last two in 2019.
In 2019:
•

The German-speaking network (comprising the NCPs of Austria, Germany and Switzerland)
met in Berne in October and shared experiences on dealing with specific instances (e.g. final
statements and follow up), promoting the implementation of due diligence by companies and
furthering policy coherence regarding responsible business conduct.

•

The Nordic-Baltic network met in Oslo in May and exchanged expertise on handling specific
instances and tools for promoting due diligence for responsible business conduct, with a focus
on the financial and garment sectors.

•

The CEE network met in June and November in Paris and engaged in peer-learning about
diversity in structures and common challenges related to handling specific instances and
promotion.

•

The LAC network met in March, June and November in Paris and notably held a workshop on
NCP engagement with business. This network is supported by, and complements the activities
of the RBC in LAC project.

In 2019, six NCPs reported having hosted a peer learning event, while 16 reported participating in one
(Box 3.11).

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

| 47

Box 3.11. Examples of NCP hosted peer learning events
Vienna mediation academy
The Austrian NCP organised a mediation academy in Vienna, Austria in April 2019, facilitated by the
Consensus-Building Institute (CBI). The programme was organised around key mediation moments
(bringing parties to the table, initial assessments and preparing for mediation, implementation and follow
up, final statements and processes that do not end with agreement) and key mediation issues
(transparency v. confidentiality, using external mediators, mediating human rights issues). The
programme also allowed participants to exchange on their experiences, questions and concerns, and
to ‘think outside the box’ regarding stakeholder mapping. 20 participants from 14 NCPs and the OECD
Secretariat took part in the academy.
Rabat workshop on managing specific instances and mediation
The Moroccan NCP organised and hosted a workshop in Rabat, Morocco in October 2019 on ‘Managing
specific instances in the context of the OECD Guidelines’, also led by the Consensus-Building Institute
(CBI). The workshop focused around ‘key moments’ in case-handling, such as initial assessment,
mediation, reaching agreement, and drafting final statements. For each of these key moments, four
learning pillars were used: (i) identifying why these key moments pose challenges; (ii) peer reflection
on how to address these challenges, referring to best practice; (iii) role play and scenario analysis to
strengthen NCP problem-solving capacity; (iv) learning consolidation through the formulation of
guidance. Seven NCPs and the OECD Secretariat participated in the event.

NCP participation in the UN Forum on Business and Human Rights
The eighth annual UN Annual Forum on Business and Human Rights took place on 25-27 November 2019
in Geneva, Switzerland. Under the theme “Time to act: Governments as catalysts for business respect for
human rights”, the Forum focused on the state duty to protect human rights and on the need for all
governments to demonstrate progress, commitments and plans in implementing the State duty to protect
against business-related human rights abuse and strengthening accountability. Ensuring access to
effective remedy was also highlighted as part of the State duty to protect, and the forum included
discussions on government action need to address the full spectrum of measures from prevention to
remediation. Representatives from several NCPs attended the event and participated in panels.

3.6. NCP participation in Global Forum on Responsible Business Conduct
Several NCPs participated in the Global Forum on Responsible Business Conduct organised in Bangkok
in June 2019 (see also Chapter 4). Dedicated sessions involving NCPs included:
•

Learning from Practice: Accountability and Access to Remedy. This panel included civil society
actors and representatives of two types of mechanisms active in facilitating remedy for harm
resulting from business activities: NCPs and National Human Rights Institutions (NHRIs). Panellists
discussed the respective mandates of NCPs and NHRIs in facilitating access to remedy, as well
as the interplay between their operations as non-judicial grievance mechanisms in the field of
business and human rights, with a focus on cooperation in ensuring the widest possible access to
remedy for victims of corporate abuse. Panellists gave examples of cases in which NHRIs and
NCPs have contributed to providing access to remedy, and highlighted instances in which NHRINCP cooperation has or could have improved such access.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

•

Introducing National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct and the OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct. This session (co-organised by the
Secretariat and the Australian NCP) provided an introduction to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance
for Responsible Business Conduct, as well as National Contact Points for RBC, and provided an
opportunity to companies and stakeholders operating in supply chains in Thailand or the region to
learn about NCPs and the Guidance and their relevance for the region. NCPs from Australia,
Canada and Switzerland shared concrete examples of their work and interacted with participants.

3.7. Action Plan to strengthen NCPs (2019-2021)
After the completion of the first Action Plan to strengthen NCPs (2016-2018), a second Action Plan (20192021) was adopted in December 2018. It contains four overarching priority areas: peer reviews and
capacity-building, building functional equivalence, building and improving tools, and promoting policy
coherence.
Subject to availability of funding, the Action Plan will deliver additional peer support to NCPs facing
challenges meeting the core criteria, sharing of expertise and skills among the NCPs, capacity-building
among peers through regional and thematic NCP networks, Secretariat support to NCPs to assess and
address capacity-building needs among key stakeholders, developing websites and other support tools,
and supporting the mechanisms to identify and engage with national-level opportunities to provide their
expertise to developments on RBC.

Tools and capacity building
The Secretariat’s practice of developing reports jointly with NCPs will continue under the second Action
Plan. Publications issued in 2019 are listed in Box 3.13. In addition, in 2019 the Secretariat prepared a
note on legal challenges faced with NCPs such as defamation suits or requests for judicial review of casestatements, and facilitated discussions with NCPs on how to address these challenges. In addition, as
alleged incidents of undue pressure being put on submitters of specific instances are reportedly on the
rise, NCPs held discussions on possible measures to protect submitters, notably based on a fact sheet
submitted by OECD Watch in June 2019. 77
Additionally, the Secretariat prepared several presentations on issues of interest to NCPs such as a
presentation on the Guidelines and NCPs for new NCP officials, and a presentation on due diligence. The
Secretariat also presented in June and November 2019 respectively a concept note and draft syllabus for
an online training tool for NCPs, designed to serve as an on boarding tool for new NCP officials and as a
repository of information to help NCPs in their daily work. In 2020, the secretariat will present a feasibility
study and development plan for the tool.
In addition, the Secretariat facilitates peer learning, including meetings of regional networks of NCPs (see
above Box 3.11) and technical trainings on specific issues (Box 3.12).

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

| 49

Box 3.12. ILO Turin technical training on international labour standards
From 23 to 27 September, 20 participants from 13 NCPs attended a technical training organised by the
ILO Training Centre in Turin and funded by the European Union on the theme ‘Labour issues in RBC:
The guidance provided by International Labour Standards and the ILO. Through multiple interactive
sessions, this week-long training allowed NCPs to deepen their knowledge of ILO RBC labour standards
such as the ILO Tripartite Declaration on Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, and to build
expertise in relation to the impacts of business on labour rights. This training was considered to be
relevant to their daily practice, given that labour issues and Chapter V of the Guidelines are recurrent
themes in specific instances. Sessions included in particular the following topics: business and wages
and working hours, business and non-discrimination, opportunities for improved synergies and
coherence, business and collective bargaining, or termination of employment, including restructuring or
closing of local operations, among various others.

NCP peer reviews
NCP Peer reviews offer an important opportunity to appreciate and share the internal workings of an NCP
and any barriers the NCP may face in realising its objectives, as well as achievements and good practices
in discharging its functions. The peer reviews also include an examination of the NCP’s procedures and
approach to handling of specific instances which can help improve consistency going forward.
In 2019, the peer reviews of two NCPs (United Kingdom and Argentina) were concluded and the on-site
visit of the peer review of the NCP of Korea was held. Additionally, the NCPs of Chile, Germany, Austria,
the United States and Canada reported on the implementation of peer review recommendations.
Of the 48 NCPs, 78 16 have been peer reviewed with one review ongoing (Korea). In addition, the NCPs of
two Adherents underwent significant reviews as part of the process of the countries’ accession to the
OECD. An additional 18 Adherents have committed to a peer review of their NCP by 2023 (Table 3.6).
This leaves a total of 12 Adherents, of which 6 are OECD members, not having yet committed to a peer
review, (Table 3.7).
Peer reviews are funded by the government of the NCP under review. The amount of the contribution is
as established in the Action Plan to Strengthen National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct
(2019-2021) and in the Revised Core Template for voluntary peer reviews of NCPs. For some
governments, providing funding has been an obstacle to committing to a peer review or to delivering on
their commitment, as noted in the Progress Report on NCPs discussed by the OECD Ministerial Council
in 2019.

Table 3.6. NCP peer reviews completed, ongoing and committed
Peer review
completed
Netherlands
Japan
Norway
Denmark
Belgium
Italy
Switzerland

Peer
Review
ongoing

Peer review commitment made

Review
completed for the accession
process

Korea

Sweden (2020, funds permitting)
Spain (2020, funds permitting)
Australia (2021)
Ireland (2021)
Greece (2021)
Luxembourg (2021)
Colombia (2022)

Costa Rica
Lithuania

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Peer review
completed
France
Germany
Chile
United States
Austria
Canada
United Kingdom
Argentina

Peer
Review
ongoing

Peer review commitment made

Review
completed for the accession
process

Slovenia (2022)
New Zealand (2022)
Tunisia (2022)
Portugal (2022)
Mexico (2023)
Latvia (2023)
Kazakhstan (2023)
Romania (2023)
Estonia (2023)
Hungary (2023)
Slovak Republic (2023)

Table 3.7. NCP peer reviews: not yet committed
OECD member countries
Adherent countries

Czech Republic, Finland, Iceland, Israel, Poland, Turkey (6)
Brazil, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Peru, Ukraine (6)

Recommendations from peer reviews completed in 2019 are set out in Annex II. The peer reviews of the
NCPs of Spain and Sweden are scheduled for 2020, provided these countries can secure the necessary
funding.
Since 2015, peer reviews were carried out using a Core Template for assessing NCP performance. This
template addressed core criteria (visibility, accessibility, transparency and accountability) and the guiding
principles for handling cases (impartiality, predictability, equitability, and compatibility with the Guidelines).
On the basis of feedback from peer review participants (including NCPs, representatives from governments
as well as business, trade unions and NGOs), the Core Template was revised in 2019. The main
improvements to the Core Template include streamlined questionnaires for input by NCPs and
stakeholders, a clarified procedure for peer review commitment by countries, provisions for better
dissemination of the peer review report, and clarification of the modalities under which stakeholders
provide written or oral input.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

| 51

Box 3.13. NCP publications
In 2019 several reports were developed regarding NCP activities and functioning:
Progress report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct
At the OECD Ministerial Council in May 2019, a Progress Report on National Contact Points for
Responsible Business Conduct was published. This report assessed progress against the commitments
made by the OECD Ministerial Council in 2017 to having fully functioning and adequately resourced
NCPs and to undertake a peer learning, capacity building exercise or a peer review by 2021, with the
aim of having all countries peer reviewed by 2023. The report flagged a number of challenges facing
the network of NCPs, in particular on resources and support from government, and made
recommendations.
Guide for National Contacts Points on the Initial Assessment of Specific Instances
This Guide considers challenges in initial assessment processes across NCPs and identifies good
practice to help ensure consistency and encourage resolution of issues as well as functional
equivalence. NCPs discussed the Guide at the June meeting of the NCP network. The Guide also
contains a section on stakeholder perspectives on initial assessments.
Guide for National Contact Points on Follow up to Specific Instances
The Guide maps the practice of NCPs regarding follow up on agreements or recommendations
emerging from cases. It shows a steady increase of this practice in recent years and provides an
overview of best practices in this regard. NCPs discussed the Guide at the June meeting of the NCP
network. The Guide also contains a section on stakeholder perspectives on follow up.
New Flyer on National Contact Points
In 2019 the Secretariat updated and expanded the information flyer on NCPs. The new flyer gives a
definition of NCPs and explains in detail the unique grievance mechanism that is the specific instance
procedure, providing insights into its scope, the themes and sectors covered, the outcomes to be
expected and the range of case submitters to which the mechanism is available, through concrete case
examples. It insists on the global reach of the mechanism, and presents the efforts of governments and
NCPs to continuously improve, notably through the Action Plan to Strengthen NCPs (2019-2021).

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

4. Due Diligence for Responsible
Business Conduct
The expectation that enterprises carry out due diligence to identify, prevent and mitigate real and potential
adverse impacts across their operations and business relationships, and to account for how those impacts
are addressed are clearly set out in the Guidelines. Due diligence for responsible business conduct helps
businesses contribute to economic and social growth without causing or contributing to adverse impacts.
It is thus a critical approach to help business put into practice actions to achieve the Sustainable
Development Goals and numerous targets associated with the Agenda 2030. Due diligence also
contributes towards holding businesses accountable for adverse impacts where they do occur, and as
such helps contribute to the effectiveness of the OECD’s National Contact Point network and access to
remedy.
A range of due diligence tools support company implementation of the Guidelines: The OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct sets out expectations for all companies operating
in all countries and sectors of the economy by setting out practical, clear explanations for how to implement
due diligence as recommended in the Guidelines. 79 OECD due diligence guidance for the agriculture,
finance, garment & footwear, minerals and stakeholder engagement in the extractives sector set out
specific expectations for carrying out due diligence and risk-mitigation in those sectors; implementation
programmes for those sectors, adopted by multi-stakeholder steering groups including their Adherents,
facilitate multi-stakeholder implementation of the sector guidance.

Figure 4.1. OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct

Source: OECD.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

| 53
Related to the OECD work on due diligence, a range of important legislative developments emerged in
2019; these are described in more detail in Chapter 4 of this report. One regulation that is particularly
strongly linked to the OECD work on due diligence is the EU Delegated Act on the recognition of industry
schemes (2019/429) that entered into force in April 2019. This Delegated Act is part of the EU Regulation
on Responsible Mineral Supply Chains (Regulation (EU) 2017/821) which is based on the OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas
(OECD Minerals Guidance) 80 and enshrines into EU law the OECD Alignment Assessment methodology
(see below for detail).
The Delegated Act is the basis for the OECD’s continued involvement with the European Commission in
the assessment and recognition of industry schemes, which have the potential to shape business actions
and make an impact at scale. ‘Recognition’ in this context means that companies that are members of
recognised industry schemes do not need to undergo additional audits or assessments to demonstrate
compliance with the EU regulation, as those schemes already carry out annual third party audits against
the OECD standard. This recognition process was conceived as a way of avoiding duplication of audits
and unnecessary compliance burdens.
Demand for the OECD to lead on further alignment assessments has continued strongly throughout 2019
(Box 4.1.). To date, the OECD has developed and published two Alignment Assessment tools 81 (targeted
towards the minerals and garment & footwear sectors), an Alignment Assessment methodology of industry
and multi-stakeholder initiatives 82 and completed pilot assessments of five major industry programmes
focusing on gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten 83 and one industry programme in garment and footwear 84. In
2019, two further assessments of multi-stakeholder initiatives in the garment sector were launched and
will be published in 2020. 2019 also saw the launch of an extended Alignment Assessment pilot in the
garment and footwear sector to test the methodology with programmes carrying out different activities (e.g.
certifications, grievance mechanisms, capacity building, and trade union agreements) and operating at
different segments of the supply chain.

Box 4.1. OECD Alignment Assessments of Industry and Multi-Stakeholder Programmes
The objective of OECD Alignment Assessments is to evaluate the alignment of an industry or multistakeholder programme (a programme) with the recommendations of the corresponding OECD due
diligence guidance.
Specifically, Alignment Assessments seek to determine:
•

Whether key overarching due diligence principles have been incorporated into the procedures
and implementation of a programme.

•

Whether a programme’s requirements for companies and the activities it undertakes itself are
aligned to the specific recommendations of the OECD due diligence framework.

This is achieved by analysing a programme’s standards and implementation against detailed “core
criteria” of due diligence included in an OECD Alignment Assessment Tool (AAT). Each core criterion
is linked to discrete recommendations within corresponding due diligence guidance. Programmes are
evaluated as being 1 (not aligned) to 3 (aligned) against each due diligence criterion, contributing
towards an overarching alignment score. In addition to the categories of alignment (overarching due
diligence principles and the due diligence framework), Alignment Assessments may also evaluate
collaboration within a programme and the programme’s governance. These aspects, however, do not
inform the judgement on the alignment of the programme. Alignment Assessments follow a 5-step
process that starts with a detailed scoping of the programme against OECD due diligence processes.
Desktop review, interviews and shadow assessments then form the basis of data collection and
analysis. Based on its review, the OECD develops a findings report, which is shared with the

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

programme and an informal advisory group, which includes stakeholders from governments, the
initiatives and civil society prior to publication. Fact checking and discussions with the programmes that
are being assessed provides an extra layer of quality control as well as a forum for discussions on the
findings.
The Alignment Assessment process:

4.1. Due diligence in the financial sector
Promoting responsible business conduct in the financial sector is vital to building a sustainable global
economy. However, the inherent complexities in the sector such as extensive and complex business
relationships or the rapidity of transactions make practical application of effective due diligence systems
challenging. OECD work on RBC in the financial sector seeks to explain the application of the Guidelines
to financial service providers and define good practices for due diligence to identify and respond to
environmental and social risks linked to clients and investment portfolios.

Guidance on corporate lending and underwriting transactions
In 2019 the OECD finalised guidance on Due Diligence for Responsible Corporate Lending and
Securities. 85 Broadly recognised environmental and social standards had previously not existed for
corporate lending and underwriting transactions, although the latter represent the vast majority of banking
finance activity. The Guidance was developed in close consultation with leading global banks, civil society
and trade unions, and approved by all Adherent governments. It provides a common global framework for
financial institutions to identify, respond to and publicly communicate on environmental and social risks
associated with their clients. The Guidance was launched during the sixth OECD Forum on Green Finance
and Investment in Paris.

Integration of OECD standards in law and non-regulatory standards
In 2019 the OECD also actively engaged with government and private sector initiatives on sustainable
finance to promote alignment with OECD recommendations on due diligence for institutional investors and
other financial service participants. This includes providing inputs to the revision of the Equator Principles
(EP4), IPOS Supervisory Guidelines on the integration of ESG factors in the Investment and Risk
management of Pension Funds and processes related to the EU Sustainable Finance Action Plan. Notably
in 2019 the European Parliament approved an EU Regulation for Sustainability-related Disclosures in the
Financial Services Sector which calls on financial actors in the EU to report on their due diligence
approaches and the EU Regulation on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable
investment (i.e. the Taxonomy Regulation) which notes that sustainable activity should be subject to
minimum safeguards including the OECD Guidelines (See Chapter 4 for more information). The OECD
has been working with EU agencies tasked with developing the accompanying technical standards to the
respective regulations.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

| 55
The 2019 edition of the Business and Finance Outlook, 86 the flagship publication of the OECD’s Directorate
for Financial and Enterprise Affairs included a chapter on Trust in Financial Institutions, which featured
analysis of trends in responsible investment and recommendations based on the OECD’s work on RBC
for institutional investors. The Chapter found that the role of RBC in trust building for institutional investors
can only be expected to become more significant in the coming years and called on policy makers to
facilitate institutional investors in responding to this trend through:
•

Supporting investment governance frameworks that are compatible with and support ESG
objectives.

•

Fostering common and widespread expectations with respect to responsible investment, for
example due diligence processes for responsible business conduct.

•

Supporting efforts to promote quality ESG data and disclosures.

Launch of work on RBC in project and asset based transactions
In 2019 the OECD also began development of guidance on RBC in project and asset based finance
transactions. This work will provide guidance to commercial banks, export credit providers, and
development finance institutions on how to carry out due diligence as recommended by the Guidelines in
the context of these transactions. It will also consider:
•

Current practice in identifying and responding to real and potential impacts associated with specific
assets and projects.

•

Challenges in balancing mandates and priorities, and managing low margins, high competition and
highly standardized processes.

•

Best practices in cooperating in remediation and developing grievance mechanisms for financial
institutions.

Throughout 2019 the OECD organised various strategic outreach and consultation events to engage
relevant stakeholders in this work and collect initial inputs on key questions. Two expert workshops will be
organised in 2020 to feed into the guidance with a few to launching it in early 2021.

4.2. Responsible agriculture supply chains
To support the practical application of the OECD-FAO Guidance for Responsible Agricultural Supply
Chains (OECD-FAO Guidance) 87, the OECD and FAO conducted a pilot with companies and industry
initiatives to assess how companies in the agricultural value chain interpret the recommendations of the
guidance and due diligence. Over thirty global agri-business companies and industry initiatives operating
at different parts of the value chain and across a diversity of food and non-food commodities took part in
the pilot which launched in February 2018 and was concluded in October 2019. In October 2019, a final
report 88 highlighting the progress made by the pilot group in meeting the recommendations of the OECDFAO Guidance over the year was published. Overall, while many companies in agricultural supply chains
have a sophisticated approach to RBC, gaps remain in how companies translate policy commitments into
implementation actions. In particular, systemic challenges require closer collaboration with key
stakeholders. The final report also included examples of company strategies in meeting due diligence as
well as useful tools to support due diligence in practice (Annex II of the report).
Companies are eager to continue to engage with the OECD and FAO on responsible agricultural supply
chains and acknowledged that the focus should now be on implementation at scale. A Roundtable on
Responsible Agricultural Supply Chains, organised by the OECD and FAO in October 2019, convened
over 60 participants including policy makers, investors, businesses, standard setters, worker groups, civil
society, researchers and international organisations. The Roundtable reviewed the findings of the pilot and
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

discussed opportunities to support uptake and implementation of the OECD-FAO Guidance including its
contribution to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Potential next steps include
integrating due diligence recommendations into national legislation as well as global communiques,
working with market operators such as standards setters and traders, conducting alignment assessments
of industry certification programmes and developing due diligence promotional materials and training for
all stakeholders. 89
A range of activities under the EU-funded Responsible Supply Chains in Asia (RSCA) programme aim to
promote responsible agricultural supply chains, particularly in Myanmar, the Philippines, Thailand and Viet
Nam. In addition to in-country outreach and technical seminars on due diligence in the agricultural and
seafood sectors, a regional pilot was launched with over 20 agri-businesses operating in Southeast Asia
in July 2019. 90 Participants in the pilot include companies operating along agricultural and seafood supply
chains in Myanmar, the Philippines, Thailand and Viet Nam. The pilot aims to promote understanding and
uptake of supply chain due diligence recommendations of the OECD-FAO Guidance and facilitate a
community of learning among participants. A baseline report will be available in early 2020. Next steps
include the organisation of webinars with pilot companies with external expert stakeholders. Topics will
include issues germane to supply chain due diligence based on gaps and challenges highlighted in the
baseline report. A final report is expected to be published at the end of 2020.

4.3. Responsible minerals supply chains
Companies involved in responsible mining and trade in minerals have the potential to generate economic
and social development, even at the local level in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. However,
companies operating in or sourcing from such areas are also at risk of contributing to or being associated
with significant adverse impacts. By implementing the recommendations of the OECD Due Diligence
Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas (OECD
Minerals Guidance), companies can avoid contributing to serious human rights abuses, support to nonstate armed groups, public or private security forces, bribery and fraudulent misrepresentation of the origin
of minerals, money laundering and improper payment of taxes, fees and royalties due to governments.
Work on the implementation of the OECD Minerals Guidance dates back to its adoption in 2011 and is
governed through a multi-stakeholder steering group, which approves work plans and sets the agenda for
the annual Forum on Responsible Mineral Supply Chains.

Box 4.2. 2019 Forum on Responsible Mineral Supply Chains
The Forum on Responsible Mineral Supply Chains is one of OECD’s largest events and in 2019
gathered over 1300 participants: roughly 25% from governments (29 members and 49 non-member
countries), 50% from business, including large multinationals and small mining cooperatives, and 25%
from civil society.
The Forum featured more than 25 sessions covering a wide variety of topics, from responsible cobalt,
diamonds and gold, to thematic issues on responsible mineral sourcing like measuring impact of due
diligence practices, corruption and integrity in the supply chain, the gender perspective to responsible
mining, and the role of financial institutions in responsible business conduct.
More than 50 side meetings were organised by partners, including the Church of England, the
International Council on Mining & Metals, the Alliance for Responsible Mining, informative sessions on
responsible mineral sourcing in Mongolia, Colombia, and DRC, and a closed-door meeting of
international donors aimed at coordinating programmes on responsible mineral supply chains.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

| 57
The Forum achieved a number of concrete outcomes:
•

Building on the 2018 London Metal Exchange (LME) responsible sourcing paper, the LME
proposed market-wide rules for the application of responsible sourcing principles to all LMElisted brands in line with the OECD Minerals Guidance

•

The Forum adopted a gender statement that provides a call to action for governments, civil
society and companies. The OECD Secretariat was invited to track these commitments and
report back next year on results.

•

Jointly with the World Bank the OECD hosted a day of meetings on responsible artisanal and
small-scale mining (ASM) for the third year. This year the World Bank launched the 2019 State
of the Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining Sector, exploring the origins and impact of the ‘global
data gap’ on ASM, which employs an estimated 40 million people globally.

•

The OECD convened a meeting of 130 practitioners in the global cobalt supply chain, including
large and small-scale producers from the DRC, multiple Chinese traders and refiners, global
component manufacturers and consumer products companies to discuss practical responsible
sourcing challenges for cobalt.

•

Jointly with the World Customs Organisation the OECD hosted a law enforcement meeting to
improve the detection, investigation and enforcement of minerals-related crimes. The meeting
was attended by 21 customs, intelligence, police and policy officers from 13 countries as well
as Interpol, the FATF Secretariat and various UN sanctions monitoring groups, including the
Group on ISIL.

Due Diligence uptake and impact measurement
In 2019, the OECD launched a project to measure the global uptake of the OECD Minerals Guidance.
While researchers have compiled and examined disclosures made in line with the Guidance in certain
industries and jurisdictions, there has been little effort to date to measure the global uptake of the Guidance
in a comprehensive way. This project aims to address this gap by measuring uptake of the Guidance
through capturing meaningful data points on the extent, quality, trends and circumstances characterising
its implementation by companies, presenting uptake through varied lenses (including supply chain
relationships, mineral, geography and industry sector).
As part of a complementary line of work to measuring global uptake of the OECD Minerals Guidance, the
Secretariat launched in 2018 a project to develop a monitoring and evaluation framework to measure
results of the implementation of the Guidance. Increased awareness is emerging among stakeholders that
companies have a responsibility to cut the link between the mineral trade, serious human rights abuses
and conflict. However, despite anecdotal reports of various results, there appears to be a continued lack
of comprehensive and empirically based evidence.
The aim of this project is to establish a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework to measure the
outcomes of the implementation of the OECD Minerals Guidance in mineral-producing countries. To this
end, the OECD Secretariat set up an Informal Advisory Group made up of M&E experts and, with the
support of the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), held a first in-person
meeting of the Group. Throughout 2019, work progressed on the development of the monitoring
framework, including the theory of change, indicators and related contextual studies. The methodology will
be finalised and tested in 2020. The findings will help improve understanding of the contribution of due
diligence efforts to social and economic development in mining communities, inform decisions about future
interventions in mineral producing countries, and identify potential implementation gaps.
The distinct methodologies and approaches to managing the projects related to uptake and the
measurement and evaluation framework in the minerals sector provide opportunity to develop a varied,
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

versatile and coherent set of results measurement practices applicable across the minerals, garments,
agriculture and finance sectors. The uptake measurement work is helping enable this by pioneering the
application of data mining and relationship mapping to improving understanding of the implementation of
the OECD Minerals Guidance. Moreover, the iterative process of developing the measurement and
evaluation framework, for its part, is building critical knowledge about the possibilities and limitations in
empirically measuring a broad spectrum of due diligence responses by companies in mineral supply
chains.

Development of a Knowledge Portal for Supply Chain Risk Information
The OECD is in the process of developing a Knowledge Portal for Supply Chain Risk Information (Risk
Portal). The Risk Portal envisions being a free-to-access website that companies can use to gain an initial
understanding of the risks in their supply chains and to guide them towards further research resources.
The pilot version of the Risk Portal will cover 40 mineral supply chains and risks mentioned in the OECD
Minerals Guidance. An example of the type of information that will be included is the report Interconnected
supply chains: a comprehensive look at due diligence challenges and opportunities sourcing cobalt and
copper from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (see text Box 4.3. for detail).
As the website is currently under development, the Secretariat is compiling its first review of risk information
covering the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019. This report, to be launched in the April
2020 OECD Forum on Responsible Mineral Supply Chains, will include information on reporting trends of
risks and will be broken down by mineral, risk, and geographic location. In the long term, the Risk Portal
scope will expand to include raw materials and risks in other sectors.

Box 4.3. Linking research to action, in producer countries and globally
In November 2019, the OECD published the report Interconnected supply chains: a comprehensive
look at due diligence challenges and opportunities sourcing cobalt and copper from the Democratic
Republic of the Congo. The report challenged assumptions that industrial and artisanal mining are part
of separate supply chains. It also raised concerns about the low level of scrutiny of some risks and
called upon copper and cobalt users to extend due diligence beyond child labour to include corruption
and human rights risks associated with security forces. Cobalt and copper are crucial for the low carbon
transition as they make up important components of batteries used for electric vehicles and mobile
telecommunications. An electric car contains four times more copper than a comparable internal
combustion engine car and about 10kg of cobalt.
The release of the report coincided with an international stakeholder meeting in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, leading to several commitments to improve governance of the sector. In the
same month, the Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo signed Decree 19/15 on
Safeguarding Activities Relating to Strategic Mineral Substances Produced by Artisanal Mining. The
Decree established a state-owned enterprise with the mandate to purchase raw materials designated
as strategic and produced using artisanal methods, notably including artisanal cobalt production. With
implicit reference to the OECD Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from ConflictAffected and High-Risk Areas, the Decree mandates that all production of such materials adhere to
human rights directives of the OECD. A parallel decree issued the same month, Decree 19/16,
establishes a new regulator to enforce all relevant legislation governing the sector.
The OECD Secretariat is continuing further engagement with the global cobalt industry and investors
to integrate findings of the report into the sourcing, financing and due diligence practices of companies.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

| 59
Due diligence training and capacity building
In 2019, training activities on the OECD Minerals Guidance were finalised in Colombia and undertaken in
West Africa and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In Colombia, the project saw 25 workshops for a
total of over 800 participants from government (Police, Financial Intelligence Unit, Customs and other law
enforcement agencies, Ministry of Mines, Ombudsman), private sector (artisanal and small-scale miners,
large scale miners, traders, banks) and civil society organisations. The project also saw the development
of a booklet to facilitate the implementation of the OECD Minerals Guidance in the Colombian context,
through consultation with representatives from government, civil society and private sector organisations.
In West Africa, the trainings were carried out in the three member States of the Integrated Development
Authority of the Liptako-Gourma (Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger), with a focus on artisanal and small-scale gold
mining. The inaugural workshop was held in Ouagadougou 2019, and six additional workshops are
foreseen in the course of 2020. A simplified guidance for upstream actors developed for the project
(currently in French and English) will be translated to haoussa, mooré et dioula, and disseminated in the
2020 trainings. In Central Africa, capacity building has targeted actors in the cobalt supply chains, with a
specific emphasis on Chinese market operators, as well as Congolese agencies involved in the mining
sector and civil society organisations.
Lessons learnt from the capacity building programmes have been applied to the development of sectoral
training on risk-based due diligence in 2019. The result is a modular training programme designed to
provide stakeholders, in particular business, information on RBC, understanding the key concepts within
due diligence, implementation actions which companies can take to implement due diligence in supply
chains and detail on each of the due diligence steps. The “OECD Master Class on Risk-Based Due
Diligence for RBC” is designed using an interactive, small-classroom Train the Trainer approach, and takes
place over two days. The Master Classes will be launched under the EU-funded “Responsible Supply
Chains in Asia” programme 91.

4.4. Responsible supply chains in the garment and footwear sector
In 2019 the OECD continued its implementation programme for the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for
Responsible Supply Chains in the Garment and Footwear Sector (Garment and Footwear Guidance)
through a range of activities supported by the European Commission and Germany. 2019 also saw the
commencement of some sector-specific activities under the EU-OECD-ILO programme on Responsible
Supply Chains in Asia, particularly for the initial engagement in Viet Nam.
The overall objective of the implementation programme is to promote responsible supply chains in the
garment and footwear sector by helping drive greater implementation of supply chain due diligence in line
with the Garment and Footwear Guidance. 92 Thekey priorities in 2019 included: driving policy coherence
on due diligence within the sector, convening and building consensus amongst stakeholders on pressing
issues within the sector and within select geographies, and assessing alignment of due diligence initiatives
and supporting the measurement of the uptake and impact of due diligence. Small and medium-sized
enterprise remain a key priority, and initial steps were taken to address the needs of SMEs with the launch
of a research survey.

Engagement in key markets
China
In 2019 the OECD partnered with the China National Textile and Apparel Council (CNTAC), with whom it
has a Memorandum of Understanding (2018), to carry out research on the implementation of the Garment
and Footwear Guidance in China by Chinese firms across the apparel and textile supply chain (Box 4.4).
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

The study, to be published in 2020, considers the extent to which Chinese companies have taken up due
diligence considerations in their sourcing practices, which barriers they face when carrying out due
diligence, and which practices have been successful.

Box 4.4. The Chinese textile and garment sector
China currently dominates world trade in textiles and garments. The Chinese textile and garment sector
comprises the entire supply chain, from cotton field and synthetic fibre production, through to finished
garments centred on key manufacturing areas, such as Shenzhen and Shanghai. Increasingly many
Chinese manufacturing companies have grown to have their own global supply chains, investing in
established garment manufacturing countries such as Viet Nam and Cambodia, as well as new
emerging markets for garments, for example in Ethiopia. Chinese textile and apparel brands likewise
remain important in the Chinese market. In 2019 China overtook the US as the world’s largest fashion
market with Chinese consumers responsible for more than a third of luxury goods sales worldwide.

India
In 2018, the OECD partnered with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to establish an industry
platform on responsible business conduct bringing together Indian manufacturing businesses and global
brands sourcing from India. The objective of the platform is to address due diligence challenges and
opportunities in Indian supply chains through shared research and capacity building activities. This
collaboration was instrumental in leading to the prominent inclusion of RBC themes (transparency,
sustainable value chain) in the CII Vision 2030 report, released at the 2019 OECD Forum on Due Diligence
in the Garment and Footwear Sector.
In 2019, the OECD deepened its engagement with the Indian industry and global business through cohosting with CII a third regional roundtable, held in Bangalore in July 2019, and speaking on a panel on
RBC at the CII annual textile industry conference in November 2019. The OECD also launched a
consultative assessment of the Indian apparel supply chain, which aims to establish a mutual
understanding of the current context on due diligence impacts and risk in the Indian apparel supply chain.
The report is due to be published in 2020.

Viet Nam
In 2019, the OECD started to engage with the Vietnamese government and industry on due diligence in
the garment and footwear sector. This included engagement with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association (VITAS), the Vietnam General Confederation of Labour (VGCL)
and civil society. The OECD Secretariat provided technical input to the Vietnamese government on its
draft national textile strategy, as it relates to responsible business conduct and enabling responsible supply
chains, and worked with IndustriALL Global Union to hold a session on wage due diligence in the garment
and footwear sector in Viet Nam.

2019 Forum on Due Diligence in the Garment and Footwear Sector
The OECD Garment and Footwear Forum has evolved as a key event for governments, business, trade
unions and civil society. 93 In the 2019 edition, held on 13-14 February, 50 percent of participants
represented business, 20 percent civil society, 15 percent government and international organisations, 9
percent trade unions and 6 percent MSIs, representing over 50 countries (Figure 4.1). Key discussions
included communicating responsibly with consumers on the sustainability of garment and footwear
products; the link between national collective bargaining and international purchasing practices;
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

| 61
addressing climate change in the fashion sector; responsible recruitment; harmonised due diligence
disclosure, due diligence on upstream production, integrating a gender lens into due diligence, a due
diligence approach to responsible chemicals management and the future of work. The Forum also included
partner-sessions hosted by third-parties, including by the ILO and UNICEF.

Figure 4.2. 2019 Participation at the OECD Garment and Footwear Forum

In 2019, the first Roundtable for Policy Makers on Due Diligence in the Garment and Footwear Sector was
held in the lead-up to the OECD Garment and Footwear Forum. The Roundtable convened policy makers
from across key economies engaged in the garment and footwear sector and its supply chain to discuss
policy options for enabling and promoting vibrant and responsible supply chains. Key topics discussed
included: capacity building for and information sharing within government; raising awareness with industry
on responsible business conduct; handling grievances; emerging supply chain legislation; governmentbacked multi-stakeholder initiatives; investment and trade regimes and enabling transparency.
The OECD also launched an informal network of manufacturers to provide a peer-led platform to build
capacity on due diligence, share learnings across geographies (including Adherent countries and nonadherents) and feed into OECD research (Box 4.5). Seventeen apparel, textile and footwear manufacturing
associations from across the value chain participated in the network.

Box 4.5. Manufacturers network on RBC in the garment and footwear sector
The manufacturers network created in 2019 identified the following key issues for discussion:
purchasing practices, audit and standard fatigue, SMEs, and traceability. Following an inaugural
meeting at the Garment and Footwear Forum, the OECD organised two further webinars in September
and November with presentations led by network members, on topics including micro-plastics, SMEs
and audit and standard fatigue. The Manufacturers network was also instrumental in supporting the roll
out of the OECD’s SME survey for the Garment and Footwear sector, launched in December 2019,
both through providing translations of the survey into relevant languages (including Italian and
Japanese) as well as disseminating the survey amongst their members. This research will contribute to
a paper on facilitating the implementation of the due diligence guidance amongst SMEs, planned for
2020/21.

Measuring the uptake and impact of due diligence
One of the activities under the implementation plan of the Garment and Footwear Guidance is to monitor
progress on due diligence in the sector. To this end, in 2019, the OECD launched a feasibility study on
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

monitoring the uptake and impact of due diligence in the sector. The feasibility study seeks to identify
existing data sources in the sector, such as industry initiatives and benchmarks, and existing indicators
that could be used in aggregate to paint a global picture of the sector. The feasibility study will also identify
key data gaps and provide guidance on how these gaps could be met and by whom. The study will be
finalised in 2020 and will feed into related efforts undertaken in the context of responsible mineral supply
chains (see above).

4.5. Monitoring the implementation of the OECD Council Recommendations on
due diligence
The five OECD Recommendations on due diligence, including the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for RBC,
as well as the sector specific guidance for minerals, stakeholder engagement, agriculture, and garment
and footwear, call on Adherents to take measures to actively support and monitor the adoption of the due
diligence framework by enterprises operating in or from their territories. 94 The Recommendations also call
on Adherents to “regularly report on any dissemination and implementation activities.” In addition, the
Investment Committee (together with partner committees where appropriate) is instructed to report to the
Council on implementation of the Recommendation. So far, the OECD Secretariat has monitored activities
by Adherents primarily through their participation in implementation programmes, sectoral meetings (fora
and roundtables) for minerals, agriculture and garment & footwear sectors, and through the participation
of Adherents in the Multi-Stakeholder Steering Groups or Advisory Groups for each of the initiatives.
However, only a limited number of Adherents participate in these activities, and little information is available
about activities by other Adherents.
To broaden the collection of information on Adherents’ activities, the Secretariat circulated a first
questionnaire to Adherents to the Recommendation on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Minerals Guidance in January 2018 and again in January 2019. Adherents to the OECD Minerals Guidance
have acknowledged the value of completing the questionnaires, specifically with regards to understanding
commitments and fostering intra-governmental communication and policy coherence. The information
collected has also been useful in shaping outreach and promotional activities, understanding new and
developing regulatory measures, and in gathering evidence for reporting on implementation to the OECD
Council. In November 2019 the WPRBC discussed a concept note for a consolidated questionnaire to be
launched in 2020 to collect information under the five Recommendations.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

| 63

5. Government action to promote RBC
Strengthened government action on
responsible business conduct
The past decade has seen an increased demand on businesses to comply with international principles and
standards on responsible business conduct (RBC) in order to contribute to sustainable development and
avoid harm to people, the planet, and society. There has also been growing recognition that RBC practices
cannot be successfully adopted by businesses without government action. Governments are now
increasingly expected to take an active role in promoting and enabling RBC. This includes not only creating
a strong RBC policy framework that fosters responsible business practices but also observing RBC
principles and standards when acting as economic actors (i.e., as owners of enterprises, purchasers,
export and trade promoters, investors for development, etc.) in order to ensure policy coherence.
Fostering policy coherence implies aligning domestic legislation, regulation and policies related to RBC,
as well as ensuring their coordinated implementation by all government bodies, ministries, departments,
and agencies. It thus requires that governments take action at the domestic level, not only in their role as
policy-makers but also as economic actors. Enhancing policy coherence also entails collaborating with
other governments to make sure that international RBC principles and standards, as well as initiatives on
RBC developed at the international level, are coordinated and consistent.
The Working Party on Responsible Business Conduct (WPRBC) has an important role to play in
strengthening the coherence of government policies on RBC. Its revised mandate, which entered into force
on 1 January 2019 provides a basis to strengthen the work of the OECD towards this goal.
This chapter summarises policy action by governments in support of RBC in 2019 and gives an overview
of the efforts undertaken by the OECD to promote national and international policy coherence on RBC.

5.1. Promoting RBC through government policies
Regulatory developments
Governments are increasingly adopting legislation to promote RBC in their jurisdiction and abroad. In the
past years, Adherents (notably France, the United Kingdom and Australia) have adopted regulations
requiring companies to carry out supply chain due diligence, or to report on actions to deal with adverse
human rights and environmental impacts through their supply chains.
In 2019, other Adherents also took steps towards the adoption of specific legislations requiring businesses
to carry out due diligence or disclose information. The nature, type and scope of these regulatory efforts
vary considerably. Some focus on the mandatory disclosure and transparency of information; others relate
to mandatory due diligence and other conduct requirements.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

In the Netherlands, the Senate adopted a draft child labour due diligence act requiring companies selling
goods or services to Dutch consumers to identify and prevent child labour in their supply chains. According
to this act, any company which sells products or services to Dutch consumers must carry out due diligence
to determine whether “a reasonable suspicion” exists that the goods or services supplied have been
produced using child labour and take subsequent remediation steps as necessary. 95
The Australian government published Guidance for Entities Reporting under the 2018 Australian Modern
Slavery Act. The Act mandates certain large businesses and other entities (with an annual turnover of
AUSD100 million or more) to prepare annual Modern Slavery Statements which identify modern slavery
risks in their supply chains and any actions taken to address those risks. The reporting guidance aligns
with and makes reference to recommendations of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for RBC. 96
In Switzerland, the Parliament examined counterproposals to the 2016 popular initiative seeking to
establish mandatory human rights and environmental due diligence requirements combined with legal
liability for Swiss companies. 97
Government action also focused in some instances specifically on non-financial disclosure. For example,
Norway appointed an expert committee to investigate a law on ethics information and examine whether
companies should be required to disclose information to consumers about production sites, RBC, and
supply chain management. 98 Denmark launched a review of the Danish rules on non-financial reporting to
examine how such rules should be amended. 99
In 2019, a number of regulatory developments also culminated at the level of the European Union. In April
2019, the European Parliament approved an EU Regulation for Sustainability-related Disclosures in the
Financial Services Sector. 100 The Regulation is the second legislative agreement reached under the EU
Sustainable Finance Action Plan. 101 It introduces transparency rules for financial institutions on the
integration of sustainability risks and impacts in their processes and financial products, including reporting
on adherence to internationally recognised standards for due diligence. It also notes that when reporting
on due diligence, practitioners “should consider the due diligence guidance for responsible business
conduct developed by the OECD.” In calling on financial institutions to disclose sustainability risks and
impacts, the Regulation represents a milestone in efforts to encourage financial institutions to take into
account impacts to society and the environment. In December 2019, a political agreement was also
reached on the EU Regulation on the Establishment of a Framework to Facilitate Sustainable Investment,
also known as the Taxonomy regulation. The Taxonomy regulation articulates environmental objectives
and standards that should be met when evaluating how sustainable an economic activity is. Additionally,
it notes that “economic activities should only qualify as environmentally sustainable where they are carried
out in alignment with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises [...]” 102
Several other countries launched consultations/studies regarding the possibility of adopting due diligence
laws. Norway took initial steps towards the adoption of a law to combat modern slavery. 103 Canada
concluded public consultations on possible legislative measures to address labour conditions in global
supply chains. 104 Finland committed to carry out a judicial study on mandatory business and human rights
due diligence to analyse the possibility of embedding due diligence in its judicial system as well as
alternative options. 105 The European Union, for its part, launched a study with the aim of assessing
regulatory options to require companies to conduct human rights and environmental due diligence. 106

National Action Plans on Business and Human Rights
Governments have also promoted RBC and sustainable global supply chains in overarching policy
frameworks and plans, such as National Action Plans on RBC or on Business and Human Rights (NAPs).
Some of these Plans go beyond human rights issues and have become important tools through which
governments have tried to unify national efforts on RBC and ensure coordination and coherence within the
government.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

| 65
In 2019, 23 countries, 20 of which are Adherents, had adopted a NAP. The most recently adopted NAPs
on Business and Human Rights were those of Kenya and Thailand, in June and October 2019,
respectively. 107 Additional countries were in the process of developing their first NAP or committed to do
so in 2019. For example, Morocco after issuing its NAP on Democracy and Human Rights in 2017, 108
undertook to develop a NAP on Business and Human Rights. 109 Other countries proceeded to review
and/or update their existing NAPs in 2019. Switzerland completed the revision of its Action Plan on
Responsible Business Conduct and NAP on Business and Human Rights, which were published in early
2020. 110 Colombia 111 and Chile 112 started the process of developing a second NAP on Business and
Human Rights in 2019.
In terms of monitoring and implementation of existing NAPs and/or overarching policy frameworks on RBC,
Sweden published a follow-up report to its NAP on Business and Human Rights. 113 Germany continued
the monitoring of its NAP on Business and Human Rights to evaluate to what extent companies based in
Germany are meeting the due diligence expectations anchored in the NAP. 114 Canada started evaluating
its CSR policy with a view to establishing a new RBC policy. 115

Sectoral initiatives aiming at promoting RBC considerations
Adherents also reviewed and/or adopted specific RBC policies aimed at promoting and enabling RBC in
specific sectors.
The Netherlands concluded the evaluation of its International Responsible Business Conduct (IRBC) policy.
This policy, which includes semi-voluntary sector-based agreements on how to address risks relating to
IRBC, was reviewed to determinate whether it had had an impact and how a new policy should be framed. 116
In Germany the Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development launched the “Green Button”, a label
for the textile sector regulated by the ministry that requires products and companies to comply with several
social and environmental criteria in line with the Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains
in the Garment and Footwear Sector. 117
The United Kingdom issued a “Green Finance Strategy” aimed at ensuring, among others, that current and
future financial risks from climate and environmental factors are integrated into mainstream financial
decision making. 118

Increasing links between RBC and other policy areas
Governments are also increasingly seeking to promote the implementation of RBC by leading by example
on RBC and using their leverage as economic actors, as well as by incorporating RBC considerations in
policies areas that shape business conduct. These initiatives include ensuring that state-owned enterprises
act in accordance with RBC principles and standards, integrating RBC criteria in public spending (e.g.,
public procurement, export credits, and development finance), but also incorporating RBC in corporate
governance regulations or trade and investment agreements.
The trend to include RBC considerations in public procurement processes and policies continued
throughout 2019. For instance, in Brazil, several stakeholders (Brazil’s NCP, a unit linked to the Presidency
and in charge of infrastructure projects, and the government agency responsible for public procurement)
took steps towards the inclusion of references to the Guidelines in rules governing public procurement
procedures and bidding processes for major infrastructure projects. 119 In Costa Rica, Congress discussed
a new public procurement law including considerations on social and environmental sustainability. 120
A growing number of governments also took steps to reinforce the connections between export credit policies and
RBC. The Finnish export credit agency launched a review of its environmental, social and governance policy to
focus on a risk-based approach and raise the importance of human rights concerns in due diligence.121 Sweden
launched a joint review and update of its policy for sustainable business and export strategy. 122
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Some governments incentivise the adoption of RBC practices through economic diplomacy. The
Netherlands, for example, finalised a new policy framework requiring companies to demonstrate
compliance with the Guidelines in order to be allowed to participate in trade missions. 123
Other policies adopted in 2019 consisted in incorporating RBC considerations in development cooperation.
In its 2019 Development Cooperation Plan, Poland included the promotion and implementation of RBC
standards as one of the priority areas of policy coherence for development. 124 In Norway, the Minister of
International Development requested a mapping of modern slavery and the elaboration of
recommendations for the government’s development programme to combat such phenomenon. 125
Another important policy area for RBC is corporate governance. France, for instance, enacted the Law for
Business Growth and Transformation, which provides that companies shall be managed taking into
account social and environmental issues linked to their activities. 126
The trend to integrate RBC considerations in trade and investment agreements also continued. A number
of bilateral investment treaties (BITs) signed in 2019 contain a general reference to internationally
recognised RBC principles and standards in their preambles. 127 Other investment treaties include
provisions on RBC in the main body of the agreement. This is notably the case of the investment chapter
of the Australia-Indonesia Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) signed in March
2019, and in which the signatories reaffirm the importance of encouraging enterprises to incorporate RBC
principles and standards in their internal policies. 128 A similar provision is included in the Investment
Agreement signed by Australia and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of
China (Hong Kong) in March 2019. 129 Another example is the Cooperation and Facilitation Investment
Agreement (CFIA) concluded by Brazil and the United Arab Emirates in March 2019, which states that
investors and their investments shall strive to contribute to the sustainable development of the host State
and the local communities by adopting socially responsible practices based on the principles and standards
of the Guidelines. It also provides that investors and their investments shall endeavour to comply with a
long list of RBC principles and standards detailed in the provision. 130
The Free Trade Agreement (FTA) and the related Investment Protection Agreement signed by the EU and
Vietnam in June 2019 both contain provisions relevant to RBC. The FTA contains a chapter on “Trade and
Sustainable Development” including a provision on “Trade and Investment Favouring Sustainable
Development” through which the signatories agree to promote RBC on the basis of internationally agreed
instruments, such as the Guidelines. 131 A general reference to other internationally recognised instruments
in the field of environmental and labour protection is also included in the preamble of the Investment
Protection Agreement, in which the signatories reaffirm their commitments to the principles of sustainable
development mentioned in the FTA. 132
Finally, in 2019, several governments also sought to promote the inclusion of RBC in other policy areas by
building public officials’ capacity on RBC. Israel, for instance, worked on translating the Guidelines into
“plain language” for government officials. 133 The United Kingdom published a guidance on tackling modern
slavery in supply chains for the government’s commercial and procurement professionals. 134

5.2. Promoting coherent government policies on RBC
The need for policy coherence
The above developments help foster the implementation of RBC standards globally, and thereby level the
playing field. They also strengthen awareness among a growing number of state agencies of the
importance of promoting RBC standards and mainstreaming them into relevant policy areas.
However, although references to RBC and international RBC instruments in national legislations and
regulations have increased, they tend to be isolated and vary in both scope and content. While these
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

| 67
developments can support the implementation of RBC standards globally, a proliferation of policy
measures at the domestic level can create challenges for business operating globally and potentially
undermine the effects of government action on RBC. Moreover, many governments may lack the resources
and capacity to effectively integrate RBC across various policies and legislations that deal with business
conduct. A further challenge is for governments to coordinate efforts in the promotion and implementation
of different international standards on RBC, which are often the responsibility of a range of Ministries
(Economy, Labour, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Environment, etc.)
The need for policy coherence at all levels (national, regional and international) is internationally
acknowledged. In 2019, this theme was the main subject of the report of the UN Working Group on
Business and Human Rights addressed to the UN General Assembly in July 2019. 135 The report highlights
that, while some governments have taken steps to enhance coherent policy with the aim of preventing
business-related human rights abuses, in practice the lack of policy coherence is widespread and deeply
concerning. 136
The 2019 edition of the UN Forum on Business and Human Rights had the overarching title “Time to act:
Governments as catalysts for business respect for human rights”. 137 This theme reflects concerns that,
despite an increase in government policies to prevent harm resulting from business activities, strengthened
government action is required to improve policy coherence, set clear expectations, and create incentives
for businesses to act responsibly by leading by example. 138

Mainstreaming RBC across policy areas
The revised mandate of the WPRBC in force since 2019 explicitly recognises the importance of promoting
national and international policy coherence on RBC. Over recent years, an expanding body of OECD
instruments has recognised the role that governments play in building strong RBC policy frameworks and
their responsibility to embed RBC concerns in policy areas that shape business conduct.
First, the OECD Guidelines promote RBC across the entire spectrum of issues where business operations
intersect with society, including corruption, environment, consumer protection, taxation, etc., which are all
areas in which the OECD has extensive policy programmes and expertise. Second, the OECD has also
set international standards relating to economic policies in which RBC considerations have been
progressively integrated, such as on governance of state-owned enterprises 139 and on export credits. 140 In
addition, through the Policy Framework for Investment (PFI), 141 the OECD supports governments in
strengthening policy coherence efforts for RBC.
The recommendations on RBC contained in chapter 7 of the PFI are an integral part of OECD Investment
Policy Reviews (IPRs). The IPRs systematically integrate a review of the policies developed and
implemented by governments to promote and enable RBC, and have become an important tool to
strengthen domestic policy coherence. 142 Following the review of Cambodia 143 and Viet Nam 144 in 2018,
the review of Croatia 145 was completed in 2019 as part of the adherence of Croatia to the OECD
Declaration on International Investment and Multinational Enterprises. The IPR of Egypt which includes an
RBC Chapter was discussed in the meeting of the Investment Committee in October 2019 (see also
Chapter 5).
The RBC chapter of the PFI is also used as a basis for RBC policy-related work, including RBC policy
reviews, under the projects “Responsible Supply Chains in Asia” 146 (the RBC in Asia Project) and “RBC in
Latin America and the Caribbean” (the RBC-LAC Project) 147. These reviews have helped not only to build
knowledge and expertise on the development of RBC policy frameworks and the coordination of
government efforts on RBC but also to identify gaps and good practices. The NCPs – given their role in
promoting coherence – are also important actors for collecting and sharing evidence of effective policy
approaches to foster policy coherence.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

Discussions at the OECD on the effective design, promotion and implementation of policies and
instruments to promote RBC in a coherent manner have also paved the way for the launch of new projects
linking RBC to other policy areas.

RBC and public procurement
It is increasingly recognised that public procurement can be used as a policy lever to foster RBC practices.
In 2019, the WPRBC and the OECD Working Party of the Leading Practitioners on Public Procurement
launched a joint programme to advance the integration of RBC considerations in public procurement
policies and processes. 148 The first step of this programme consists in conducting research and taking
stock of relevant policies and practices in place within Adherent countries with the aim of identifying needs
and challenges for the effective inclusion of RBC concerns in public procurement. These research and
stocktaking exercises will serve as the basis for several outputs, including a compendium of good practices,
and policy briefs on the economic benefits of the integration of RBC considerations in public procurement,
and on lessons learnt from other policy areas relevant for the inclusion of RBC concerns in public
procurement.

RBC and investment treaties
Investment treaties have the potential to influence domestic legal and regulatory frameworks and foster
the adoption and implementation of RBC policies, to affect businesses’ behaviour, and to promote the
adoption of RBC practices. Following a call for further work on RBC and investment treaties by the
Freedom of Investment (FOI) Roundtable 149 in March 2019, the Secretariat prepared a scoping paper on
investment treaties and business responsibilities (covering both RBC and Business and Human Rights
approaches). 150 After engaging in initial discussions on the paper in October 2019, FOI participants
requested additional work on investment treaties and business responsibilities, which was also adopted
as the topic for the 2020 OECD Investment Treaty Conference. 151 As a result, a public consultation was
launched in early 2020 to give business, trade unions, civil society and experts the opportunity to comment
on the scoping paper and inform future discussions to be held in the framework of the FOI Roundtable and
the 2020 OECD Investment Treaty Conference. 152

Joining forces with other international organisations
The OECD maintained close collaboration with other international actors to enhance international
coherence on RBC. For instance, the 2019 Global Forum on RBC included a high-level plenary session
entitled “Governments Taking Action: Deepening Policy Coherence”, which explored how governments
can deepen policy coherence and ensure cohesive action on responsible business and human rights (see
also Chapter 5). 153
Collaboration and coordination between the OECD and other international organisations also strengthened
in the framework of the projects on RBC in Asia and in LAC. These two regional projects, supported by the
EU, aim to enhance the construction of strong and coherent RBC policy frameworks at the country level
while fostering international policy coherence through the alignment of the organisations’ instruments and
implementation programmes (see also 0).
One of the main challenges and opportunities of these projects relates to the importance of speaking with
one voice among different international organisations on what RBC means, as well as ensuring the
development of a common narrative and the alignment of activities in order to promote coherent
implementation across countries and different stakeholder groups. To this effect, he OECD, ILO, and
UNOHCHR partnered to develop a joint brochure with key messages from their respective instruments on
RBC: the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles
concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy and the OECD Guidelines. 154

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

| 69

6. Engagement with Adherents and nonAdherents
The strength of the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises rests on the engagement with major and
emerging economic players to create a fair, level playing field. Deepening engagement with Adherents and
non-adherents around the Guidelines has been one of the top priorities of the Working Party on
Responsible Business Conduct (WPRBC) since the Guidelines were updated and has remained an integral
part of its revised mandate.
In 2019, the WPRBC continued to engage in a dialogue with a wide range of Adherent and non-adherents
around the world both bilaterally and through regional programmes as well as sector specific and other
activities. Outreach activities play an important role for anchoring and increasing the effective
implementation and monitoring of the Guidelines in different parts of the world, including in non-Adherent
countries that are part of global supply chains. A key purpose of outreach activities is to level the global
playing field and to promote the implementation of OECD instruments on RBC, including through regional
programmes.

6.1. Adherence to the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
OECD Ministers, on several occasions, have reaffirmed the importance of promoting broad adherence to
the Declaration on International Investment and Multinational Enterprises (hereafter the Declaration)
[OECD/LEGAL/0144], which includes the OECD Guidelines. Benefits of adherence comprise not only the
government’s commitment to RBC, but also the process of the adherence review itself, which provides a
unique opportunity to engage and foster dialogue within government agencies, and with business
organisations and civil society on integrating RBC in investment policy. Non-OECD Members that adhere
to the Declaration participate as Associates in the meetings of the Investment Committee on issues relating
to the Guidelines and in WPRBC meetings, with rights that broadly place them on equal footing with OECD
Members.
In 2019, the WPRBC welcomed Croatia as the 49th Adherent to the Guidelines. The adherence procedure
of two additional countries, Bulgaria and Uruguay, started in 2019. The WPRBC carried out a review in
relation to Uruguay’s request for adherence to the Declaration in November 2019
[DAF/INV/RBC(2019)13/REV1] 155 The review of Bulgaria’s RBC policies by the WPRBC is expected to
take place in 2020.
In addition, the WPRBC, through its parent Committee, the Investment Committee, continued to monitor
the commitments made by Kazakhstan and Ukraine upon adherence to the Declaration. The two recent
Adherents presented follow-up reports on implementation of the recommendations made in the context of
their adherence to the Declaration, in particular with respect to fulfilling their commitment and obligations
under the Guidelines. 156

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

The year 2019 also marked a comprehensive review of Egypt’s investment policies. This included an
assessment of Egypt’s RBC policies and NCP. Egypt has been Adherent since 2007; however, it still faces
challenges with promoting and enabling RBC and the effective functioning of the NCP. 157
Some Adherents are still facing a weak understanding of the commitments undertaken under the
Guidelines and of the role that their National Contact Points can play or lack the resources and support
necessary to carry out their functions. The review of RBC policies in the context of IPR can help build
knowledge and ensure that relevant Ministries and government agencies in Adherent countries are aware
of the various requirements set out in the Decision on the Guidelines and of recent international
developments on RBC. Increasingly, Adherents expect new governments adhering to the Declaration to
implement their commitments relating to implementation of the Guidelines and not only setting up an NCP
at the time of adherence, but also providing it with the necessary resources over the longer term.

6.2. Engagement with non-Adherents
Promoting dialogue and deepening engagement on RBC with governments that have not adhered to the
Guidelines has been one of the top priorities of Adherents since the Guidelines were updated in 2011. In
line with OECD rules, the WPRBC can invite certain non-Member governments to participate in its
meetings as Invitees. So far, however, it has primarily pursued cooperation with these countries through
regional, country, or sector programmes as well as the Global Forum on Responsible Business Conduct,
favouring this type of engagement over formal participation in WPRBC meetings.
Co-operation in 2019 was maintained with a number of countries, either through country, regional, or sector
programmes. By working with these countries at different levels the WPRBC helps non-Adherents
understand the benefit of being engaged with the Working Party, of adherence to the Guidelines, and of
the reforms and measures needed for eventual adherence to them.

Engagement in the context of Investment Policy Reviews and RBC Reviews
Engagement with non-Adherents continued to take place in the context of Investment Policy Reviews
(IPRs), in which RBC considerations are now systematically included. Several IPRs were undertaken in
2019: Georgia, Indonesia, Myanmar, and Thailand as well as a regional IPR covering six Eastern European
and Southern Caucasus countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. The
reviews are expected to be completed in 2020. IPRs have become an important tool for outreach on the
Guidelines and dialogue with non-Adherents on levelling the playing field for responsible investment. 2019
was also the year of the launch of RBC policy reviews under the RBC in Latin America and the Caribbean
project (see below)). Reviews of RBC policies and practices are also being undertaken in the context of
the Asia programme (see below). These reviews help share the WPRBC’s knowledge and expertise on
government approaches to developing RBC policy frameworks and coordinating efforts on RBC and to
identifying gaps and good practices.

Promoting responsible supply chains in Asia
The programme on Promoting Responsible Supply Chains in Asia (2018-2020) includes activities to
promote policy coherence on RBC and increase stakeholders, notably businesses, civil society, worker
representatives and academics understanding of OECD recommendations on due diligence and
responsible supply chains. The programme, implemented by OECD in collaboration with the ILO and
funded by the European Union, covers activities in six countries: Japan (OECD Member), China (Key
Partner country), Thailand, Myanmar, the Philippines, and Viet Nam.
In 2019, activities focused primarily on promoting implementation of OECD RBC instruments with business
and reinforcing partnerships. The programme witnessed political buy-in increasing across the board; strong
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

| 71
buy-in by businesses, and identified a clear need for training on due diligence; emergence of new strategic
opportunities, particularly as related to RBC in the financial sector and the environment; as well as a chance
to reinforce international coherence and partnerships.
In Japan, OECD engagement has spanned workshops, roundtables, technical seminars, presentations
and policy briefings with both business and government, including working closely with Japan’s National
Contact Point. There has been continuing strong business engagement across the target sectors as well
as engagement in cross cutting initiatives including the work of the Business and Human Rights Lawyers
Network Japan and Global Compact Network Japan in developing "Engagement" and "Remedy"
Guidelines for Promotion of Responsible Business Conduct and Supply Chains. The OECD has also been
working closely with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) and the Ministry of Economy Trade and Industry
(METI), in particular with respect to: stakeholder consultations related to the development of the National
Action Plan on Business and Human Rights; launching the Japanese version of the OECD Due Diligence
Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct; and convening a high-level roundtable for business and
governments on international collaboration to address supply chain risks in the Asia region.
The year 2019 witnessed increased engagement in China, including with the Chinese Ministry of Industry
and Information Technology (MIIT) and the China Electronics Standardisation Association (CESA). Several
exchanges were organised in this context, including a high-level policy roundtable organised in May 2019
at the OECD and chaired by the EU Ambassador to the OECD and the OECD Director for Financial and
Enterprise Affairs. At the invitation of MIIT, the OECD delivered a training session on RBC policies and
international trends for Chinese policy makers from all over the country responsible for industrial
development and RBC/CSR policy implementation in Qingdao in September 2019. Engagement with the
Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) and partner industry associations continues.
Engagement with Southeast Asian countries was equally strong. Thailand hosted the 2019 Global Forum
on RBC (see below) and supported organisation of several key events, including with industry in the context
of preparation of Master Classes on Due Diligence and the launch of the OECD Southeast Asia Agriculture
Pilot (see chapter 3). The OECD also provided technical support to the Thai government during the
development of the Thailand National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights, as in the context of the
RBC chapter of the ongoing Investment Policy Review of Thailand.
The OECD was also asked to include a review of RBC policies and practices in the ongoing second
Investment Policy Review of Myanmar which started in 2019. This work is being undertaken in a complex
political and humanitarian context that has attracted international scrutiny as to how investments may
impact rights in the country. Against this background, RBC has increasingly become a priority for both
businesses and policy makers. The OECD participated and co-hosted several events, notably the
Responsible Business Forum held in Nay Pyi Taw in December 2019, co-hosted with ILO and EuroCham
Myanmar. At the request of the government, OECD also co-hosted several trainings and a policy dialogue
on RBC. In particular, in December 2019, the policy dialogue included a dedicated session on National
Action Plans on Business and Human Rights where Thailand shared their experience with developing a
NAP.
In 2019, the OECD Council approved the start of discussions with Viet Nam to sign a Country Programme,
following the successful example of the Thailand Country Programme, which includes a component on
RBC. Activities in Viet Nam supported these strategic objectives and included sharing of technical
expertise in several different ways. Notably, the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT), as well as the
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association (VITAS), invited the OECD to provide support on RBC during the
ongoing elaboration of a new National Textile Strategy (see chapter 3). Engagement in the agriculture
sector was also strong, and included the organisation of two technical seminars.
These examples show a clear demand by businesses for capacity building to meet international
expectations on RBC. A similar trend has been observed in the Philippines. Driven by strong demand from
both business and government stakeholders, the OECD held a number of roundtables, workshops,
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

technical seminars and a high level event as part of the 2019 Sustainable Agriculture Forum on the OECD
RBC tools and instruments. In light of significant buy-in from both business and governments, the OECD
is holding a dedicated Master Class training for businesses in the Philippines, in which government
agencies have also expressed interest to participate. Interest and proposals for collaboration with
government agencies have extended beyond initial interlocutors and include engagement with the
Department of Tourism, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources, and the Securities
Exchange Commission – in addition to on-going collaboration with the Department of Trade and
Investment and the Department of Agriculture.
Activities under this programme have opened up new opportunities for engagement. Notably, the Thai
Government Pension Fund (GPF), one of the two biggest institutional investors and asset holders in
Thailand, has requested OECD technical support to help align its policies and practices with OECD RBC
standards. GPF’s ambition is to be a global leader on RBC. The OECD RBC Centre also hosted high-level
visits by the China Chamber of International Commerce (CCOIC) as well as the Ministry of Ecology and
Environment and discussed collaboration on green investment, environment and biodiversity, including in
the context of APEC 2020 and Biodiversity COP planned in China in October 2020.

India
In December 2019, the OECD organised a session on RBC in India as part of the larger launch event of
the OECD Economic Survey of India. The session highlighted the strong cooperation between the
Secretariat and the private sector in India to advance responsible business conduct in the domestic textile
and gold supply chains.
In addition, with the support of the India Gold Policy Centre, the OECD organised an all-day workshop on
responsible sourcing of gold in India. The purpose of the workshop was to secure commitments from key
stakeholders to undergo OECD-aligned gold refiner audits and to develop a locally contextualised version
of the OECD Minerals Guidance. There was agreement from the different key stakeholders as to when
Indian gold refiners will need to undergo an OECD-aligned audit and which industry body is specifically
responsible for different aspects of the preparation (e.g. drafting the Indian Guidelines, conducting trainings
and outreach, conducting supporting research, etc.).

Latin America and the Caribbean
A new work stream on RBC in Latin America and the Caribbean started on 1 January 2019. The project
"Responsible business conduct in Latin America and the Caribbean (RBCLAC)” is implemented by the
OECD in collaboration with the International Labour Organization (ILO), and the United Nations Office of
the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR). 158 It is financed by, and designed in collaboration
with, the European Union (EU). It is the first time these three organisations join forces with the support of
the EU to promote RBC within the framework of a joint regional project, which is being implemented over
a period of four years (2019-2022). The project is undertaken in partnership with Chile and Mexico, both
OECD Members, as well Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica and Peru, which have all adhered to the
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and have set up a NCP, and two non-Adherents, Ecuador
and Panama. The project was officially launched at the Regional Consultation on Business and Human
Rights in Santiago, Chile on 3-4 September 2019. 159 The activities carried out by the OECD under the
project have been structured around three pillars: (1) Government policies for responsible business
conduct, (2) Helping business to conduct due diligence in priority sectors and (3) Strengthening access to
remedy: reinforcing NCPs.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

| 73

Figure 6.1. Responsible Business Conduct Country Fact Sheet: Peru

Source: OECD.

nder the first pillar, the OECD engages with governments on RBC policies through the drafting of RBC
policy reviews. The main objective of a RBC policy review is to provide a reference for further consolidating
and implementing a strong RBC policy framework based on the country’s policies and regulations in the
areas covered by the OECD Guidelines, as well as government action to promote and incentivise RBC
through trade, investment, public procurement and other policies. The RBC policy review of Peru process
started in July 2019 and is expected to be completed in 2020. The review will also feed into the ongoing
development of the National Action Plan (NAP) on Business and Human Rights in Peru. As a precursor
for the RBC policy reviews, the RBC Fact Sheets for Peru 160 and Colombia 161 were released in 2019. They
provide a general overview of investment and trade data, a snap shot of RBC related instruments, and
also introduce the sectors of major economic and development importance in the country.
Under the second pillar, the OECD supports businesses to strengthen due diligence, with a focus on the
priority sectors (agriculture, minerals/extractives, financial, and garment/footwear sectors). During the first
phase of the project (18 months), the OECD is carrying out “regional diagnostics” to identify key issues per
country as well as regional trends in the priority sectors. The regional sectoral diagnostics will provide the
basis for the design of the regional sectoral capacity building with businesses on due diligence to be carried
out over 2020-2022. Besides the development of the methodology of the sectoral diagnostics, the OECD
also collaborated with the Spanish NCP and NCPs from Latin America to translate its Due Diligence
Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct into Spanish. The Spanish version of the Guidance was
launched during the Regional Forum on NAPs and public policies in business and human rights in Buenos
Aires, Argentina on 3-4 June 2019. The Portuguese version will be launched in Brasilia and Sao Paulo in
April 2020.
Under the third Pillar, the objective is to strengthen the functioning of the seven NCPs in the region in order
to provide access to remedy related to business impacts and promote RBC at the national level. Activities
focus on tailor-made capacity building based on roadmaps developed in collaboration with the seven NCPs
in the region, as well as strengthening regional cooperation and peer learning. The Network of LAC NCPs
was established in 2019 and three meetings have taken place so far (5 March, 21 June and 8 November).

Africa
In 2019, the OECD led several outreach missions in West (Senegal, Burkina Faso and Niger) and Central
Africa (Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda). In the DRC, the objective was twofold: to advance

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

the work on cobalt supply chains, through on-the-ground fact-finding (leading to the drafting of a baseline
report on risks in cobalt supply chains in November); and to gather all relevant stakeholders of the sector
for a series of consultations and workshop (also in November, in Kolwezi) that were well attended and
impactful.
In West Africa, the objective was to advance the work plan with the Liptako-Gourma Authority, with a view
to raising awareness on the OECD Guidance mainly with governmental officials and the private sector.
Two missions were more specifically dedicated to awareness raising with law enforcement agencies
(customs and financial intelligence units).
In 2019, the OECD also launched a series of training and capacity building workshops on the
recommendations of the OECD Minerals Guidance, covering four countries (Burkina Faso, the Democratic
Republic of Congo, Mali, and Niger). Trusted external partners perform the trainings.

6.3. Global Forum on RBC
The Global Forum on Responsible Business Conduct (GFRBC) is the OECD’s flagship event on RBC and
has been held annually since 2013 at OECD headquarters in Paris. The 7th edition took place on 12-13
June 2019 in Bangkok, Thailand, within the framework of the Bangkok Business and Human Rights Week
(BHR Week, 10-14 June 2019). It was co-organised together with the Royal Government of Thailand (Chair
of ASEAN in 2019), ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights (AICHR), International
Labour Organisation (ILO), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the United Nations
Economic and Social Commission for the Asia Pacific (UN ESCAP). To take account of the human rights
focus of the partner organisations, the Forum was held under the heading Responsible Business and
Human Rights Forum. 162
The Forum included 16 sessions covering a wide variety of priority topics, including supply chain due
diligence, food and agriculture, electronics, project finance and infrastructure, migrant workers, climate
change, gender issues in global supply chains, decent work, and trade and investment agreements. In
addition, 14 side-events were organised with key partner organisations, including on topics related to the
environment, decent work in value chains, special economic zones, child-labour, mining, and anticorruption. This includes side-events sponsored by the Australian NCP as well as Japan and the EU.
Moreover, numerous stakeholder events happened on the margins of the forum and included trainings of
human rights experts in the region; a workshop on RBC in electronics supply chains; and a conference
organised by OECD Watch for NGOs. To enable broad participation, the Forum was webcast. 163
With over 700 registered participants from 42 countries, the RBHR Forum was one of the largest events in
Asia on responsible business conduct / business and human rights in 2019. Participation included 50%
governments, 25% business, and 25% civil society; 54% of participants were women. Eight NCPs and all
10 ASEAN Members participated. Participants from 21 Adherent countries were present, including highlevel business stakeholders. For example, BIAC, United States Council for International Business and
International Organization of Employers organised a side-event on business contribution to the SDGs.
Additionally, several UN agencies were actively involved, including the UN Office of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights, UN Environment, UNFCCC, UNICEF and IOM. Joint sessions included
an OECD, ILO, UNICEF, and IOM consultation on the Alliance 8.7 report on Ending Child Labour, Forced
Labour and Human Trafficking in Global Supply Chains.
The OECD co-hosted two major events in addition to the Forum - the AICHR Inter-Regional Dialogue on
Business and Human Rights (10-11 June) and the first-ever ASEAN Institutional Investors Forum (14
June), together with the Thai Stock Exchange and the Government Pension Fund, in which OECD’s work
on RBC in the financial sector was prominently featured. The AICHR Regional Dialogue was also

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

| 75
supported by Adherents, notably Norway and Switzerland, in addition to the Thai Ministry of Justice and
the Australian Human Rights Commission.

6.4. RBC in international processes
As part of the 2019 G7 French presidency and its theme “fighting inequality”, the Working Party provided
input to the G7 Employment Task Force on NCPs, due diligence and the inclusion of RBC in specific policy
areas. The Tripartite Declaration and the G7 Social Communiqué adopted on 9 June both refer to the
Guidelines. The Communiqué sends a strong signal on the importance of promoting RBC in global supply
chains, including specific calls to G7 countries to; (i) promote the Guidelines and the OECD Due Diligence
Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, (ii) step up efforts to strengthen mechanisms providing
access to remedies, including the National Contact Points (NCPs) for RBC, and (iii) consider RBC practices
in their role as economic actors through public procurement, export credits and international cooperation
financing and, where applicable, as owners of enterprises.
The OECD also supported the 2019 Japanese G20 Presidency on RBC. This included supporting
discussions at the G20 in two thematic areas, notably the discussions on quality infrastructure and ending
child labour, forced labour and human trafficking in global supply chains. As outlined in the 2018 Annual
Report on the OECD Guidelines, infrastructure projects can have significant positive but also adverse
impacts on society and the environment. Various recent initiatives have focused on integrating RBC across
the entire infrastructure project. 164 The G20 in 2019 explicitly recognised the importance of RBC in the
Principles on quality infrastructure under Principle 6: Strengthening Infrastructure Governance. 165
Additionally, the draft report on Ending child labour, forced labour and human trafficking in global supply
chains, developed by the OECD, ILO, UNICEF and IOM under the aegis of the SDG Alliance 8.7, was
presented and recognised at the G20 Labour and Employment Ministers’ meeting in Japan on 2
September.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

Annex A. Overview of NCP performance

Key elements
No
.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39

Country
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Brazil
Canada
Chile

Colombia
Costa Rica
Croatia
Czech
Republic
Denmark
Egypt
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Korea
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Mexico
Morocco
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Peru
Poland
Portugal
Romania

Full time
staff

Websit
e

Rules of
procedure online

YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
NO

YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES

YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES

NO
YES
NO
NO
YES
YES
NO
NO
YES
NO
NO
NO
YES
NO

YES
YES
NO
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES

YES
YES
NO
YES
YES
YES
YES
N/A
YES
N/A
YES
YES
YES
YES

YES
YES
NO
YES
NO
NO
NO
YES
NO
YES
NO
NO
NO
NO

NO
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
NO

NO
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
NO
YES
YES
YES
NO
NO

Engaged in
promotional events
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
No report
YES
YES
NO
NO
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
NO
YES
YES
YES
YES
No report
NO
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES

Attended June and/or
Nov 2019 NCP
meetings

YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
NO
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

| 77
40
41
42
43
44
45

Slovak
Republic
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Tunisia

46
47
48
49

Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States

NO
YES
YES
NO
YES
YES
YES
NO
YES
YES

YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES

YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
NO
YES
YES
YES
YES

NO
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

Dedicated
budget

Report to
Government

Report to
Parliament

Promotional
plan

Organised / coorganised

June 2019
attended NCP

Nov 2018
attended NCP

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

12

YES

14

YES

YES

2

Australia

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

2

YES

10

YES

YES

3

Austria

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

7

YES

3

YES

YES

4

Belgium

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

3

YES

2

YES

YES

5

Brazil

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

9

YES

3

YES

YES

6

Canada

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

1

YES

37

YES

YES

No.

Number
participated in

Other
ministries

YES

Participated in
events

Advisory body
with some

YES

Number of
events

Advisory body

YES

Revised in
2018

Trade unions

YES

Online

Business

YES

Rules of
procedure

NGOs

YES

Website

Staff left NCP

YES

1

Staff joined
NCP

Part time staff

Argentina

Country

Full time staff

Comprehensive overview

7

Chile

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

7

YES

12

YES

YES

8

Colombia

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

0

YES

6

YES

YES

9

Costa Rica

NO

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

9

YES

7

YES

YES

10

12

Croatia
Czech
Republic
Denmark

13

Egypt

14

11

NO REPORT
NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

4

NO

0

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

3

YES

3

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

0

NO

0

YES

Estonia

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

0

NO

0

YES

YES

15

Finland

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

2

YES

4

YES

YES

16

France

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

17

Germany

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

40

YES

27

YES

YES

YES

YES

8

YES

11

YES

YES

18

Greece

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

N/A

N/A

YES

NO

0

YES

5

YES

YES

19

Hungary

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

20

Iceland

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

N/A

NO

NO

NO

0

YES

1

YES

YES

N/A

NO

NO

0

NO

0

YES

21

Ireland

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

0

YES

1

YES

NO

22

Israel

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

23

Italy

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

4

YES

3

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

1

YES

9

YES

24

Japan

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

1

YES

4

YES

YES

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

Nov 2018
attended NCP

NO

NO

NO

June 2019
attended NCP

YES

YES

Number
participated in

NO

Participated in
events

NO

Number of
events

NO

Organised / coorganised

YES

Promotional
plan

Report to
Government

NO

Revised in
2018

Dedicated
budget

NO

Online

Other
ministries

YES

Rules of
procedure

Advisory body
with some

YES

Website

Trade unions

YES

Report to
Parliament

Business

Advisory body

NGOs

Staff left NCP

Staff joined
NCP

Part time staff

Full time staff

Country

No.

| 79

NO

YES

NO REPORT

25

Jordan

26

Kazakhstan

YES

NO

NO

NO

27

Korea

YES

YES

YES

NO

28

Latvia

NO

YES

NO

NO

29

Lithuania

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

NO

0

NO

0

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

3

YES

3

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

6

YES

1

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

12

YES

5

YES

YES

30

Luxembourg

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

1

YES

5

YES

YES

31

Mexico

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

1

NO

0

YES

YES

32

Morocco

33

Netherlands

34

New Zealand

35

Norway

36

Peru

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

9

YES

7

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

1

YES

12

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

2

No

0

NO

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

9

YES

16

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

1

YES

2

YES

NO

37

Poland

NO

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

3

YES

4

YES

YES

38

Portugal

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

1

NO

0

YES

YES

39

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

N/A

NO

YES

3

YES

2

YES

NO

NO

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

0

NO

0

YES

YES

41

Romania
Slovak
Republic
Slovenia

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

4

YES

1

YES

YES

42

Spain

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

0

YES

6

YES

YES

43

Sweden

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

3

YES

4

YES

YES
YES

40

44

Switzerland

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

2

YES

19

YES

45

Tunisia

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

NO

0

YES

2

YES

NO

46

Turkey

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

0

YES

1

YES

YES

47

Ukraine
United
Kingdom
United
States

NO

YES

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

NO

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

YES

1

YES

3

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

21

YES

4

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

NO

YES

YES

YES

NO

YES

YES

5

YES

3

YES

YES

48
49

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

80 |

Annex B. NCP peer review recommendations

Peer review of the National Contact Point of the United Kingdom
The full report is available online 166

Table A B.1. Institutional arrangements
Findings
1.1

1.2

1.3

Recommendations

There is a lack of clarity and visibility around the structure and
mandate of the UK NCP as a non-judicial grievance mechanism.
The implications of its being set up as an independent team within
DIT are unclear. In the absence of a legal document setting up the
NCP, the fact that its mandate, structure and functioning is not
recorded in formal terms of reference contribute to this general lack
of clarity and visibility around the NCP structure.
There is a lack of clarity about the extent of the Steering Boards
advice and oversight functions, and what the corresponding
powers of the Steering Board are in regard to both. The exercise of
these functions is rendered difficult by the limited information made
available to the Steering Board.
The chairship and secretariat arrangements of the Steering Board
potentially limit its independence and reduce the confidence of
stakeholders.

The NCPs mandate, structure and functioning
should be clarified, described and
communicated in a public document, and an
annual report on NCP activities should be
published and sent to relevant authorities,
including Parliament.
The terms of reference for the Steering Board
should be revised to define more precisely the
advice and oversight functions of the Steering
Board and the information which is to be made
available to it.
The UK NCP should address the concerns
relating to the independence of the Steering
Board.

Table A B.2. Promotion
Findings
2.1

2.2
2.3

2.4

The UK NCP suffers from a lack of awareness
and visibility among key stakeholders beyond
the largest organisations. Stakeholders would
like the NCP to more directly engage with them.
The UK NCP does not systematically measure
knowledge of the Guidelines and the NCP
among business and other constituencies.
The UK NCP’s website is informative but not
user friendly and incomplete, as it does not
contain recent developments or events
sections, and older documents are
automatically transferred to the national
archives website. The website is also only
available in English.
The UK NCP is well known to departments
which have a structural connection to the NCP
but insufficiently beyond that circle, which
reduces the potential for policy coherence. The
UK NCP is also viewed by other government
departments as mainly active on promotion of
the Guidelines overseas, but less so on
promotion within the UK.

Recommendations
The UK NCP should strengthen engagement and increase
awareness of the Guidelines and the NCP with key stakeholders
(including SMEs)
The UK NCP should systematically measure stakeholder
awareness of the Guidelines and the NCP.
To the extent possible within the gov.uk template, the UK NCP
should improve the structure and navigability of its website. To be
more comprehensive, the website should include links to the
national archives where relevant and an events and latest
developments page. The UK NCP should also assess the need for
key information on the website to be available in other languages.
With due regard for the allocation of responsibilities set by the UK
Government, the NCP should ensure that it continues to work and
develop relationships with other government departments and
Parliament so as to increase its visibility in the promotion of the
Guidelines domestically and overseas as part of the UK
government’s wider RBC policy. Government members of the
Steering Board should also continue to act as representatives of
the NCP across government.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

| 81

Table A B.3. Specific instances
Findings

Recommendations

3.1

The UK NCP’ interpretation of the Guidelines’ criteria for initial
assessment was highlighted by some stakeholders as a
challenge.

3.2

The expertise on the wide variety of topics covered in the
OECD Guidelines directly available to the NCP for the purposes
of examining cases is limited by the fact that cases are only
handled by staff in the NCP, whereas the complexity of cases is
increasing.
There is a lack of predictability as to the exact material scope of
the ‘Review procedure for dealing with complaints’ The
procedure describes the review as covering ‘procedural errors’
in the NCP decision-making, but in practice what qualifies as a
‘procedural error’ is open to interpretation. Additionally, the role
of the NCP staff in recommending whether a review should be
conducted reduces the perception that the process is fully
impartial.
The UK NCP does not disclose parties’ names until a case has
been accepted for further examination, although information
about cases is made public in most cases, showing that a
periodic review of whether rules of procedure still align with the
latest developments is necessary.

3.3

3.4

In the future, the UK NCP should interpret the
Guidelines criteria for initial assessment (in
particular the ‘material and substantiated’ criterion)
in a broad manner wherever possible
The UK NCP should make more extensive and
systematic use of the possibility to seek advice
from experts in order to assist during the initial
assessment stage or the examination stage.
The rules governing the review procedure should
more precisely describe the material scope of the
review function of the Steering Board, notably by
clarifying the notion of ‘procedural error’. The
questions raised by the role of the NCP staff in the
process should also be addressed.
The UK NCP should continue to regularly review
its rules of procedure to ensure that they still align
with the latest developments, for example
regarding whether to disclose case parties’ names
as soon as the case is filed.

Peer review of the National Contact Point of Argentina
The full report is available online 167

Table A B.4. Institutional arrangements
Findings
1.1

1.2
1.3

The NCP suffers from a reduced institutional profile and a
lack of visibility. The fact that the NCP and its Advisory
Council are set up by means of Ministerial Resolutions
reduces their prominence and stability within the
Government, as this legal instrument is internal to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship.
The current configuration of the NCP as part of a larger
government department reduces its visibility and stability,
and prevents it from having a dedicated budget.
The legal instrument setting up the Advisory Council is
drafted in general terms and stakeholders have varied
expectations and concerns in relation to the details of its
functioning.

Recommendations
The NCP and the Advisory Council should be
established by way of Presidential Decrees rather than
Ministerial Resolutions.

The NCP should be set up as a distinct unit within the
National Directorate for Multilateral Economic Relations.
The NCP should adopt, after discussion with the
Advisory Council members, Terms of Reference for the
Advisory Council covering in particular its composition
and the mode of designation of its members, its material
competence and its working procedures.

Table A B.5. Promotion
Findings
2.1

Stakeholders beyond the Advisory Council have little
knowledge of the NCP and of its role, which reduces the
NCP’s visibility and accessibility.

Recommendations
The NCP should therefore increase its efforts and
develop information and promotional materials with a
view to promoting itself and informing the public about
its role and functions, as well as the benefits of
engaging with the NCP.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

82 |
2.2

Promotional activities of the NCP have been limited in
recent years, although the NCP has increased promotion
since the beginning of 2019. A particular challenge
regarding promotion is to cover the entirety of Argentina’s
very large territory. Currently, most events were
organised in the capital and involve stakeholders based
there.

2.3

The NCP is not very visible within government, but has
made recent efforts to establish contacts with other
government departments, in particular as it was
establishing its Advisory Council. Government
representatives showed interest in furthering cooperation
with the NCP.

The NCP should develop a promotional plan to raise
awareness on RBC, taking into account the key sectors,
key issues and key actors identified by stakeholders.
The plan should also include actions to promote the
OECD due diligence guidance instruments. To address
the challenge related to the size of the country, the NCP
should take advantage of local government and
stakeholder offices throughout the country to organise
promotional events and reach out to enterprises and
stakeholders located outside of the capital, including
indigenous communities.
The NCP should continue to build relations with other
government departments with a view to fostering policy
coherence for RBC. In particular, the NCP should seek
to facilitate the implementation of any action contained
in the NAP in the areas relating to its mandate.

Table A B.6. Specific instances
3.1

3.2

3.3

Findings

Recommendations

The rules of procedure are not closely aligned with the
language of the Procedural Guidance. In practice the
NCP’s handling of cases has been characterised by a
high degree of informality (e.g. regarding confidentiality),
which has impacted predictability.
During good offices, the NCP has not consistently played
an active role in helping the parties find a mutually
agreeable solution to the issues and lacks expertise to
conduct mediation, which may diminish the confidence of
the parties and impede the effective handling of cases.
The NCP’s final statements are generally short and do not
include details on the issues. The NCP also does not
make recommendations or plans for follow up.

The NCP should revise its rules of procedure with a view
to aligning them with the Procedural Guidance and
designing a clearer and more predictable procedure.
Where possible, the NCP should offer mediation during
good offices, and should explore ways in which the
services offered by the National Directorate for
Mediation could be used in future NCP cases.
The NCP’s final statements should, in the future, contain
the following elements: a description of the issues, an
account of the process before the NCP, an analysis of
the issues and, when appropriate, recommendations
and provisions for follow up.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

| 83

Annex C. Submission by Business at OECD
(BIAC)

Business at OECD (BIAC) represents the major national business and employers’ organizations from
OECD member countries, and through them over 7 million companies. We also have observer
organizations in a number of non-member countries as well as over 40 international sectoral organizations.
Today, many companies have integrated responsible business conduct (RBC) considerations into their
overall business strategy to manage their activities in a responsible way. We consider RBC as promoted
by the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (MNE Guidelines) to be an essential part of an open
investment climate and in the best interest of business. To that end, we are working in partnership with the
OECD, national governments and our members to support an effective implementation of the MNE
Guidelines, ensure a shared understanding of the NCP process and promote the MNE Guidelines as well
as practical due diligence guidance in adhering countries and beyond to support a global level playing field.
We are in close contact with our member and observer organizations and multinational enterprises, both
large and small, to raise the visibility of the MNE Guidelines by participating in events and raising
awareness in regular online communications. Our business brochure on the MNE Guidelines, which has
just been updated, has been widely distributed to provide our members with a user-friendly communication
tool that helps multinational enterprises understand what they need to know about the Guidelines and why
this unique government-backed responsible business conduct instrument is of major importance for
business.
A key focus of our work on RBC in 2019 was our contribution to the implementation of the OECD general
due diligence guidance for responsible business conduct. In this context, we contributed to several
outreach events, including in cooperation with member organizations.
We have further remained an active partner in the proactive agenda projects to ensure that the concrete
experience of the different sectors is duly reflected. We actively contributed to the development of the due
diligence guidance for corporate lending and securities underwriting. A number of our member companies
also participated in the pilot program to support the practical application of the OECD-FAO Guidance for
responsible agricultural supply chains. Like in previous years, we promoted and our member actively
participated in the Forum on responsible minerals supply chains and the Forum on responsible supply
chains in the garment and footwear sectors.
We are further strengthening our work with non-member countries, which are adherents to the OECD
Declaration on International Investment and Multinational Enterprises, by reaching out to and engaging in
a dialogue with the major business organizations in these countries.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

84 |

Annex D. Submission by OECD Watch

NCP case handling and NCP structures
The OECD’s annual report notes that 30 complaints were closed in 2019; this includes at least 13 filed by
communities or civil society. While there were some high points among these cases, OECD Watch remains
concerned over many NCPs’ complaint-handling practices. In particular, OECD Watch is deeply concerned
that 15, or 50%, of complaints closed in 2019 were rejected at the initial assessment phase (p. 15). The
primary ground for rejection was that the complaints would not “further the purpose or effectiveness of the
Guidelines.” OECD Watch has pointed out repeatedly that this admissibility criteria is unhelpfully broad.
The 2019 Annual Report now shows how the criteria’s extensive misuse helps deny access to remedy for
complainants. The second reason for untimely rejection was that complaints were deemed insufficiently
substantiated. OECD Watch has long observed an overly high standard of proof required by many NCPs
at the initial assessment stage that shuts the door to valuable dialogue.
OECD Watch is also concerned that three NCPs are still located in investment promotion agencies, where
serious conflicts of interest or perception thereof jeopardize their ability to offer impartial dispute resolution
between parties (pg. 30). OECD Watch is also concerned that 33 NCPs are located in economic or trade
ministries, where many civil society groups rightly also perceive a conflict of interest. These issues impinge
on NCPs’ credibility and trust with civil society stakeholders.
OECD Watch welcomes engagement with the OECD and NCPs on these procedural and structural
challenges. We believe the Guidelines and Procedural Guidance should be revised to close gaps in
standards for MNEs and guidance for NCPs to meet the core criteria and complaint handling principles.
Positive highlights related to case-handling and NCP structures in 2019 included achievement of
agreement in a few cases involving important sectors (financial sector responsibility and responsibility of
digital platforms over hosted content, pg. 16-17); recommendation of consequences against a company
(pg. 21); and the restructuring of the Australian NCP towards an independent expert structure (pg. 30),
following sustained advocacy from Australian civil society and OECD Watch.

Focus on gender
OECD Watch appreciated increased focus on gender and RBC in 2019, including through the WPRBC’s
workshop at which OECD Watch presented, which focused on gender impacts of MNEs and on minimising
gender-specific barriers to remedy via NCPs. OECD Watch urges individual NCPs and the OECD to
maintain focus on this topic by issuing a gender due diligence guidance, holding more training events for
stakeholders on addressing gendered impacts in supply chains, and establishing guidance for NCPs on
improving access to remedy for women via the specific instance process.

Reprisals against human rights defenders
OECD Watch published a factsheet in 2019 finding a 25% rate of reprisals against human rights defenders
occurring in relation to NCP specific instances between 2000 and 2018. In 2019 and earlier, OECD Watch
has engaged with individual NCPs and the OECD secretariat on a number of reprisal-related concerns
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

| 85
linked to complaints. Given the prominence of this issue in the global human rights community, OECD
Watch is disappointed the Annual Report does not address it. NCPs have unique ability to promote
guidance for companies on reprisals and also address risks through complaint-handling. OECD Watch
urges the OECD and NCPs to work with sister international organisations and grievance mechanisms to
develop coordinated statements, policies, and internal guidance on this issue.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

86 |

Annex E. Submission by TUAC

The Annual Report for 2019 confirms challenges for promoting and protecting the OECD Guidelines. [doc
of reference DAF/INV/RBC(2020)5] Seventy-eight percent (78%) of cases concluded in 2019 did not
resolve the issues raised by the filing party. None of the trade union cases concluded in 2019 resolved
issues raised by the workers. Unresolved cases has eroded trade union confidence in the NCP mechanism
overall.
As of 31 December 2019, ten (10) trade union NCP proceedings remained in progress without resolution.
Trade union proceedings at NCPs have been on a downward trend since peaking at 18 new proceedings
filed in 2004. There were five new specific instances filed by trade unions in 2019.
Two proceedings concluded with Final Assessments at the end of 2019: IUF & FLOC v. British American
Tobacco at the UK NCP; and BWI, IndustriALL & CUT Brazil v. BHP Vale at the Brazil NCP. NCPs
accepted both cases for further examination but multinational respondents refused to participate, triggering
final assessments.
A lack of good faith participation by MNEs in recent NCP processes compounded concerns by TUAC
affiliates about MNEs commitment to the Guidelines. TUAC will be closely monitoring future MNE
participation levels and developing recommendations designed to help NCPs keep both parties engaged
in future proceedings. 168

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

| 87

Annex F. List of 2019 publications

OECD (2019) Artificial Intelligence & Responsible Business Conduct,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-and-artificial-intelligence.pdf
OECD (2019) Platform Companies & Responsible Business Conduct,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-and-platform-companies.pdf
OECD (2019) Is there a role for blockchain in responsible supply chains?
http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Is-there-a-role-for-blockchain-in-responsible-supply-chains.pdf
OECD (2019) Due Diligence for Responsible Corporate Lending and Securities Underwriting: Key
considerations for banks implementing the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Due-Diligence-for-Responsible-Corporate-Lending-and-SecuritiesUnderwriting.pdf
OECD (2019) OECD-FAO Guidance Pilot Final Report, http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Pilot-project-onthe-implementation-of-the-OECD-FAO-Guidance-for-Responsible-Agricultural-Supply-Chains-FINALREPORT.pdf
OECD-FAO, Summary Note: OECD-FAO 2019 Roundtable on Responsible Agricultural Supply Chains,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Summary-note-OECD-FAO-Roundtable-on-Responsible-AgriculturalSupply-Chains-29-October-2019.pdf
OECD (2019) Summary Note on the SEA Agricultural supply chains pilot,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Summary-Note-Pilot-on-Responsible-Agricultural-Supply-Chains-inSoutheast-Asia-November-2019.pdf
OECD (2019) Stakeholder statement on Implementing Gender-Responsive Due Diligence and Ensuring
the Human Rights of Women in Mineral Supply Chains, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/StakeholderStatement-Implementing-Gender-Responsive-Due-Diligence-and-ensuring-human-rights-of-womenin-Mineral-Supply-Chains.pdf
OECD (2019) An introduction to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Mineral Supply
Chains for Upstream Actors, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/An-introduction-to-the-OECD-DueDiligence-Guidance-for-upstream-actors.pdf
OECD (2019) Interconnected supply chains: a comprehensive look at due diligence challenges and
opportunities sourcing cobalt and copper from the Democratic Republic of the Congo
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Interconnected-supply-chains-a-comprehensive-look-at-due-diligencechallenges-and-opportunities-sourcing-cobalt-and-copper-from-the-DRC.pdf
Alignment assessment of industry initiatives for due diligence in the garment and footwear sector:
Assessment of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, http://www.oecd.org/daf/inv/mne/OECD-alignmentassessment-garment-footwear-SAC.pdf
OECD (2019), OECD Investment Policy Reviews: Croatia 2019, OECD Investment Policy Reviews,
OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/2bf079ba-en.
OECD (2019), Responsible Business Conduct country Fact Sheet – Peru, OECD Publishing, Paris,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-LAC-country-fact-sheet-Peru.pdf
OECD (2019), Responsible Business Conduct country Fact Sheet – Colombia, OECD Publishing,
Paris, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-LAC-country-fact-sheet-Colombia.pdf

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

88 |
ILO/OECD/OHCHR (2019), Empresas responsables – mensajes claves de los instrumentos
internacionales, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Joint-brochure-instruments-Responsible-supplychains-in-Asia-Project.pdf
OECD (2019), Progress Report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct,
http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Progress-Report-on-NCPs-for-Responsible-Business-Conduct2019.htm
OECD (2019), Guide for National Contacts Points on the Initial Assessment of Specific Instances, OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Guide-for-National-ContactPoints-on-the-Initial-Assessment-of-Specific-Instances.pdf
OECD (2019), Guide for OECD National Contact Points on issuing Recommendations and
Determinations, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Guide-for-National-Contact-Points-on-Recommendations-andDeterminations.pdf
OECD (2019), Guide for National Contact Points on Structures and Activities, OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Guide-for-National-Contact-Points-onStructures-and-Activities.pdf
OECD (2019), OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises National Contact Point Peer Reviews:
Argentina, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Argentina-NCP-Peer-Review-2019.pdf
OECD (2019), OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises National Contact Point Peer Reviews:
United Kingdom, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/UK-NCP-Peer-Review-2019.pdf
OECD (2019), National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct: Flyer,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Flyer-OECD-National-Contact-Points.pdf
Responsible Supply Chains in Asia, country specific brochures on:
China: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/EU-ILO-OECD-Responsible-Supply-Chains-in-Asia-CHINA.pdf
Japan: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/EU-ILO-OECD-Responsible-Supply-Chains-in-Asia-JAPAN.pdf
Myanmar: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/EU-ILO-OECD-Responsible-Supply-Chains-in-AsiaMYANMAR.pdf
Philippines: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/EU-ILO-OECD-Responsible-Supply-Chains-in-AsiaPHILIPPINES.pdf
Thailand: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/EU-ILO-OECD-Responsible-Supply-Chains-in-AsiaTHAILAND.pdf
Vietnam: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/EU-ILO-OECD-Responsible-Supply-Chains-in-AsiaVIETNAM.pdf
Responsible Business: Key messages from international instruments,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Brochure-responsible-business-key-messages-from-internationalinstruments.pdf
Summary Report of the 2019 Responsible Business and Human Rights Forum,
http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBHRF-GFRBC-2019-Summary.pdf

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

| 89

Notes

Minerals Alignment Assessment tool: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/industry-initiatives-alignmentassessment.htm and garment and footwear tool: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/alignment-assessmentdue-diligence-garment-footwear.htm
1

Minerals assessment methodology: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/OECD-Due-Diligence-AlignmentAssessment-Methodology.pdf (English) and https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Methodologie-evaluationcoherence-programmes-par-industrie-avec-le-guide-OCDE-le-devoir-de-diligence-minerais.pdf (French)
2

3

OECD (2018) Alignment Assessment of Industry Programmes with the OECD Minerals Guidance

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Alignment-assessment-of-industry-programmes-with-the-OECD-mineralsguidance.pdf
OECD Pilot assessment report garment and footwear: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/alignmentassessment-garment-footwear.htm
4

OECD
(2019),
Summary Note
on
the
SEA
Agricultural
supply chains
pilot
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Summary-Note-Pilot-on-Responsible-Agricultural-Supply-Chains-inSoutheast-Asia-November-2019.pdf
5

6

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-Digitalisation-Workshop-Agenda-30-October-2019.pdf

7

http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-and-artificial-intelligence.pdf

8

http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-and-platform-companies.pdf

9

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Is-there-a-role-for-blockchain-in-responsible-supply-chains.pdf

10

As of the end 2019, approximately 20% of specific instances submitted to NCPs relate to environmental
issues.

11https://www.g20germany.de/Content/EN/StatischeSeiten/G20/Texte/g20-gipfeldokumente-en.html

12

See for example OECD (2019) ESG Investing DAF/CMF(2019)23

13

Guidelines, I. Concepts and Principles, para. 11.

14

The UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights launched a project in July 2020 to assess
whether the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights are fit for purpose for the next decade.

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

90 |
15

2017 Ministerial Council Statement, para. 17.3: “We commit to having fully functioning and adequately
resourced National Contact Points, and to undertake a peer learning, capacity building exercise or a peer
review by 2021, with the aim of having all countries peer reviewed by 2023.”
www.oecd.org/mcm/documents/2017-ministerial-council-statement.htm
16

OECD Members: Czech Republic, Finland, Iceland, Israel, Poland, Turkey. Non-OECD Members: Brazil,
Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Peru, Ukraine. Croatia, which adhered to the Guidelines in 2019, has not yet been
included in peer review planning.
17

The Recommendation of the Council on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business
Conduct [OECD/LEGAL/0443]; the Recommendation of the Council on the Due Diligence Guidance for
Meaningful Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractive Sector [OECD/LEGAL/0427]; the Recommendation
of the Council on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains in the Garment and
Footwear Sector [OECD/LEGAL/0437]; the Recommendation of the Council on the OECD-FAO Guidance
for Responsible Agricultural Supply Chains [OECD/LEGAL/0428], the Recommendation of the Council on
the Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and HighRisk Areas [OECD/LEGAL/0386].
18

Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 laying down
supply chain due diligence obligations for Union importers of tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores, and
gold originating from conflict-affected and high-risk areas, https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legalcontent/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017R0821.
19

OECD (2019), Due Diligence for Responsible Corporate Lending and Securities Underwriting: Key
considerations for banks implementing the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Due-Diligence-for-Responsible-Corporate-Lending-and-SecuritiesUnderwriting.pdf
20

OECD (2020), COVID-19 and Responsible Business Conduct http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/covid-19and-responsible-business-conduct.htm.
21

OECD (2017), Government at a Glance 2017.

22

Working Party on Responsible Business Conduct, Summary Record 5-6 November 2019
[DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2/REV1].
23

http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/OECD-Responsible-Business-Conduct-Policy-Review-Peru.pdf

24

The following countries are targeted by the Responsible Business Conduct in Latin America and the
Caribbean project: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama and Peru.
See: http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/rbclac.htm.

The OECD Guidelines are part of the OECD Declaration on International Investment and Multinational
Enterprises. The text of the Declaration, including the Guidelines, is available on the Compendium of
OECD Legal Instruments with the reference OECD/LEGAL/0144.
25

26

https://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Business/Pages/GenderLens.aspx

27

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-and-artificial-intelligence.pdf;

28

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-and-platform-companies.pdf

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

| 91
29

http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Is-there-a-role-for-blockchain-in-responsible-supply-chains.pdf

OECD (2017) OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains in the Garment and
Footwear Sector, (modules 8- 10).

30

31

OECD/FAO (2016), OECD-FAO Guidance for Responsible Agricultural Supply Chains.

32

https://www.oecdguidelines.nl/documents/publication/2019/04/19/ncp-final-statement-4-ngos-vs-ing

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Concept-note-COP25-The-business-and-human-rights-dimension-ofclimate-change.pdf
33

34

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Session-note-COP25-Global-Climate-Action-and-RBC.pdf

https://www.oecd.org/env/resources/biodiversity/biodiversity-finance-and-the-economic-and-businesscase-for-action.htm
35

The UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights cautioned in 2018 that overemphasising
“business opportunities” tied to the SDGs overshadows the understanding that the most significant
contribution the majority of businesses can make to realizing the SDGs is to respect human rights and
through RBC. See 2018 Report of the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights (UN General
Assembly Report, A/73/163)
36

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Ending-child-labour-forced-labour-and-human-trafficking-in-globalsupply-chains.pdf. A preliminary version of the report was presented at the G20 Labour and Employment
Ministers' Meeting in Matsuyama, Japan, on 1-2 September 2019. The OECD Secretary-General
discussed the report at the Paris Peace Forum which was officially launched at the UN Forum on Business
and Human Rights on 25-27 November 2019.
37

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Technical-paper-Measuring-child-labour-forced-labour-and-humantrafficking-in-global-supply-chains.pdf
38

39

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-and-the-sustainable-development-goals.pdf

http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Brochure-How-the-OECD-FAO-Guidance-can-help-achieve-theSustainable-Development-Goals.pdf
40

41

https://www.ser.nl/-/media/ser/downloads/engels/2019/sdg-and-imvo.pdf

Decision of the Council on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises [OECD/LEGAL/0307]
(Decision on the Guidelines).
42

43

Procedural Guidance, Decision on the Guidelines.

For example, the 2018 Recommendation of the Council on the Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Business Conduct recommends “that Adherents and where relevant their NCPs, with the support of the
OECD Secretariat, ensure the widest possible dissemination of the Guidance and its active use by
enterprises, as well as promote the use of the Guidance as a resource for stakeholders such as industry
associations, trade unions, civil society organisations, multi-stakeholder initiatives, and sector-initiatives,
and regularly report to the Investment Committee on any monitoring, dissemination and implementation
activities.”
44

The Procedural Guidance, included in the Decision on the Guidelines, provides that “NCP[s] will offer a
forum for discussion and assist the business community, worker organisations, other non-governmental
45

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

92 |
organisations, and other interested parties concerned to deal with […] issues raised […]Procedural
Guidance, I (C)
Currently 455 of these are reported on the public OECD specific database, 53 additional specific
instances filed after 2011 have not yet been reported on the database as they were in progress or recently
closed and initial or final statements were unavailable at the time of writing. The number of cases in
previous annual reports reflected the number of cases on the online database.
46

“Some form of agreement” means that the parties either reached full or partial agreement on the issues
raised in the complaint.
47

The most frequent upper limit designating an SME is 250 employees. See OECD Glossary of Statistical
Terms, "Small and Medium Sized Enterprises." https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=3123
48

Fortune Global 500 is a list compiled by Fortune magazine ranking the world’s 500 largest companies
as measured by their gross revenue. https://fortune.com/global500/2019/methodology/

49

50

Decision on the Guidelines, Procedural Guidance, I. C (3).

51

Para 32.

52

Para 35.

Recommendations were issued by the NCPs of Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, France, Italy,
Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom
53

54

Determinations were made by the NCPs of Australia, France, United Kingdom

55

Para. 40.

56

Para. 41.

57

Para 23.

58

Para 24.

59

Decision on the Guidelines, I (4).

60

See Decision on the Guidelines, Procedural Guidance, I. A.

61

Decision on the Guidelines, Procedural Guidance, I.

62

Decision on the Guidelines, Procedural Guidance. Section C.

These categories are based on OECD (2018), Structures and Procedures of National Contact Points for
the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Structures-andprocedures-of-NCPs-for-the-OECD-guidelines-for-multinational-enterprises.pdf. This report maps how
Governments have set up their NCPs and how the mechanisms operate and make decisions in relation to
their mandates.
63

64

Decision on the Guidelines, Procedural Guidance, Section I.D.1.

65

More detailed data is available in Annex I.

66

Decision on the Guidelines, para. 3.
2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

| 93
67

Para. 11.

68

More detailed data is available in Annex I

69

See http://www.oecd.org/mcm/documents/2017-ministerial-council-statement.htm

70

More detailed data is available in Annex I.

OECD (2019) Progress report on National Contact Points for Responsible Business Conduct,
[C/MIN(2019)7], p. 6.
71

72

Id., p. 14.

Recommendation of the Council on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business
Conduct [OECD/LEGAL/0443]. Governments have similar obligations under Council Recommendations
on other OECD Due Diligence Guidance instruments.
73

74

More detailed data is available in in Annex I.

NCP websites are referenced on the NCP page of the OECD website. See
http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/ncps/

75

76

Para 19.

77

https://www.oecdwatch.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/8/2019/06/Reprisals-NCP-system.pdf

This figure does not include the NCP of Croatia, which started its activities in 2019 following Croatia’s
adherence to the OECD Declaration on International Investment.
78

OECD, Recommendation of the Council on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Business Conduct [OECD/LEGAL/0443]
79

OECD, Recommendation of the Council on Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of
Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas [OECD/LEGAL/0386]
80

Minerals Alignment Assessment tool: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/industry-initiatives-alignmentassessment.htm and garment and footwear tool: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/alignment-assessmentdue-diligence-garment-footwear.htm
81

Minerals assessment methodology: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/OECD-Due-Diligence-AlignmentAssessment-Methodology.pdf (English) and https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Methodologie-evaluationcoherence-programmes-par-industrie-avec-le-guide-OCDE-le-devoir-de-diligence-minerais.pdf (French)
82

83

OECD (2018) Alignment Assessment of Industry Programmes with the OECD Minerals Guidance

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Alignment-assessment-of-industry-programmes-with-the-OECD-mineralsguidance.pdf
OECD Pilot assessment report garment and footwear: https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/alignmentassessment-garment-footwear.htm
84

OECD (2019), Due Diligence for Responsible Corporate Lending and Securities Underwriting: Key
considerations for banks implementing the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises,
85

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

94 |
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Due-Diligence-for-Responsible-Corporate-Lending-and-SecuritiesUnderwriting.pdf
86

OECD (2019) Business and Finance Outlook: Strengthening Trust in Business https://doi.org/10.1787/26172577

OECD, Recommendation of the Council on the OECD-FAO Guidance for Responsible Agricultural
Supply Chains [OECD/LEGAL/0428]
87

OECD/FAO (2019), OECD-FAO Pilot project on the implementation of the OECD-FAO Guidance for
Responsible Agricultural Supply Chains: Final Report. http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Pilot-project-on-theimplementation-of-the-OECD-FAO-Guidance-for-Responsible-Agricultural-Supply-Chains-FINALREPORT.pdf
88

OECD/FAO (2019), Summary Note: OECD-FAO 2019 Roundtable on Responsible Agricultural Supply
Chains
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Summary-note-OECD-FAO-Roundtable-on-ResponsibleAgricultural-Supply-Chains-29-October-2019.pdf
89

OECD (2019), Summary Note on the SEA Agricultural supply chains pilot
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Summary-Note-Pilot-on-Responsible-Agricultural-Supply-Chains-inSoutheast-Asia-November-2019.pdf
90

OECD (2019), OECD Master Class Flyer on Risk-Based Due Diligence in Asia:
http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Flyer-master-class-on-risk-based-duediligence-Asia.pdf
91

OECD, Recommendation of the Council on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply
Chains in the Garment and Footwear Sector [OECD/LEGAL/0437]
92

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/2019-oecd-forum-on-due-diligence-in-the-garment-and-footwearsector.htm
93

As of 2019, there are five OECD Recommendations of the Council relating to due diligence guidance.
These are:
94

Chapter 1. The Recommendation of the Council on Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply
Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas (2011) [OECD/LEGAL/0386]
Chapter 2. The Recommendation of the Council on the Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractive Sector (2016) [OECD/LEGAL/0427]
Chapter 3. The Recommendation of the Council on the OECD-FAO Guidance for Responsible Agricultural
Supply Chains (2016) [OECD/LEGAL/0428]
Chapter 4. The Recommendation of the Council on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Supply Chains in the Garment and Footwear Sector (2017) [OECD/LEGAL/0437]. Chapter 5
Chapter 5. The Recommendation of the Council on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Business Conduct (2018) [OECD/LEGAL/0443]
Government of the Netherlands (2019), Child Labour Due Diligence Act dated 24 October 2019,
https://www.eerstekamer.nl/behandeling/20191113/publicatie_wet_4/document3/f=/vl3jh4kl10yx.pdf. See
also OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019,
DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
95

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

| 95
Government of Australia (2019) Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018 Guidance for Reporting
Entities https://www.homeaffairs.gov.au/criminal-justice/files/modern-slavery-reporting-entities.pdf
96

Government of Switzerland (2019), Press release of the Federal Council “Swiss companies called to
establish respect for human rights and environmental norms” dated 14 August 2019,
https://www.admin.ch/gov/fr/accueil/documentation/communiques.msg-id-76050.html. See also OECD
(2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019,
DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
97

Government of Norway (2020), Norwegian Ethics Information Committee,
https://nettsteder.regjeringen.no/etikkinformasjonsutvalget/norwegian-ethics-information-committee/. See
also OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019,
DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
98

OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019,
DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.

99

Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on sustainability-related disclosures in the
financial services sector, https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-7571-2019-ADD-1/en/pdf)

100

101

See https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/banking-and-finance/green-finance_en

See Article 13, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a
framework to facilitate sustainable investment https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legalcontent/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52018PC0353
102

Norway Today (2020), Norwegian law against modern slavery on the docket,
https://norwaytoday.info/news/norwegian-law-against-modern-slavery-on-the-docket/.

103

Government of Canada (2020), Consultation on labour exploitation in global supply chains,
https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/programs/international-affairs/consultationsupply-chains.html. See also OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6
November 2019, DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
104

OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019,
DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
105

BIICL (2020), European Commission study on human rights due diligence in supply chains,
https://www.biicl.org/projects/european-commission-study-on-human-rights-due-diligence-in-supplychains. See also OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November
2019, DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
106

OHCHR (2020), State national actions plans on Business and Human Rights, States that have produced
a national action plan, https://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Business/Pages/NationalActionPlans.aspx.

107

Government of Morocco (2017), National Action Plan on Democracy and Human Rights,
https://didh.gov.ma/sites/default/files/2018-11/panddh%20FR%20corrig%C3%A9%20SITE.PDF.

108

OHCHR (2020), State national actions plans on Business and Human Rights, States that are in the
process of developing a national action plan or have committed to developing one,
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Business/Pages/NationalActionPlans.aspx.

109

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

96 |
Government of Switzerland (2020), CSR Position Paper and Action Plan – Implementation Status
2017-2019 and Action Plan 2020-2023 and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights –
Swiss National Action Plan 2020-03, both dated 15 January 2020, www.csr.admin.ch resp ;
https://www.nap-bhr.admin.ch/napbhr/en/home.html. See also OHCHR (2020), State national actions
plans on Business and Human Rights, States that have produced a national action plan,
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Business/Pages/NationalActionPlans.aspx.
110

Government of Colombia (2018), Recommendations for the update of the National Action Plan on
Business and Human Rights,
http://www.derechoshumanos.gov.co/observatorio/publicaciones/Documents/2018/180810recomendaciones-actualizacion-Plan.pdf. See also Fundación ideas para la paz (2019), National Action
Plans on Business and Human Rights – Minimum requirements for a successful elaboration and
implementation in Colombia, pp. 24-25,
http://cdn.ideaspaz.org/media/website/document/5d306cdcd0a3e.pdf.
111

Government of Chile (2020), Follow-up report on the implementation of the NAP on Business and
Human Rights – August 2017-August 2019, pp. 4-5, https://es.scribd.com/document/444590676/Reportede-seguimiento-PAN-04-10-2019.
112

Government of Sweden (2018), Follow-up of Sweden’s action plan for business and human rights,
https://mk0globalnapshvllfq4.kinstacdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/follow-up-report-to-sweden-snational-action-plan-on-business-and-human-rights-nap.pdf.
113

Government of Germany (2020), Monitoring of the National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights,
https://www.auswaertiges-amt.de/en/aussenpolitik/themen/aussenwirtschaft/wirtschaft-undmenschenrechte/monitoring-nap/2131054.
114

Government of Canada (2014), Doing business the Canadian way: a strategy to advance corporate
social
responsibility
in
Canada’s
extractive
sector
abroad,
Conclusion,
https://www.international.gc.ca/trade-agreements-accords-commerciaux/topics-domaines/otherautre/csr-strat-rse.aspx?lang=eng#csr8.
115

Government of the Netherlands (2019), Mind the governance gap, map the chain – Evaluation of the
Dutch government’s policy on international responsible business conduct (2012-2018), https://english.iobevaluatie.nl/publications/evaluations/2019/09/01/433-%E2%80%93-iob-%E2%80%93-evaluation-of-thedutch-governments-policy-on-international-responsible-business-conduct-2012-2018-%E2%80%93mind-the-governance-gap-map-the-chain. See also OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the
WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019, DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
116

German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (2020). Green Button,
https://www.gruener-knopf.de/. See also OECD (2019) Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC
held on 5-6 November 2019, DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
117

United Kingdom (2019), Green Finance Strategy – Transforming Finance for a Greener Future,
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/82028
4/190716_BEIS_Green_Finance_Strategy_Accessible_Final.pdf. See also OECD (2019) Summary
record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019, DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
118

OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019,
DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
119

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

| 97
See also Government of Costa Rica (2019), Draft Law on Public Procurement,
https://cgrfiles.cgr.go.cr/publico/docsweb/documentos/sala-prensa/boletines/2019/proyecto-ley-generalcontratacion-publica-lgcp-asamblea-legislativa-08-08-2019.pdf.
120

OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019,
DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
121

122

Ibid.

Government of the Netherlands (2020), Government stimulus for corporate social responsibility,
https://www.government.nl/topics/corporate-social-responsibility-csr/government-stimulus-for-corporatesocial-responsibility-csr.
123

Government
of
Poland
(2019),
Development
Cooperation
Plan
for
2019,
https://www.polskapomoc.gov.pl/download/files/Dokumenty_i_Publikacje/Plan_wspolpracy_2019/201901
09_Plan_WR_2019_EN.pdf. See also OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held
on 5-6 November 2019, DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
124

Government of Norway (2020), Mapping of modern slavery and recommendations for the Norwegian
Government’s
development
programme
to
combat
modern
slavery,
https://www.regjeringen.no/en/dokumenter/modern_slavery/id2670039/.

125

Law No. 2019-486 dated 22 May 2019 regarding Business Growth and Transformation published in the
Journal Officiel de la République Française No. 0119 dated 23 May 2019, Article 169
https://www.legifrance.gouv.fr/affichTexte.do?cidTexte=JORFTEXT000038496102&categorieLien=id.

126

See Belarus-Hungary BIT, Preamble, https://investmentpolicy.unctad.org/international-investmentagreements/treaty-files/5915/download;
Cabo
Verde-Hungary
BIT,
Preamble,
https://investmentpolicy.unctad.org/international-investment-agreements/treaty-files/5916/download.
127

Australia-Indonesia CEPA, Chapter 14 “Investment”, Article 14.17 “Corporate Social Responsibility”,
https://www.dfat.gov.au/trade/agreements/not-yet-in-force/iacepa/iacepa-text/Pages/iacepa-chapter-14investment.aspx.
128

Australia-Hong Kong Investment Agreement, Article 16 “Corporate Social Responsibility”,
https://www.tid.gov.hk/english/ita/fta/hkaufta/files/investment_agreement.pdf.

129

This list includes, among others: contributing to economic, social and environmental progress in order
to achieve sustainable development; respecting the internationally recognised human rights of the
persons involved in the company’s activities; fostering local capacity-building through close cooperation
with local communities; refraining from seeking exemptions that are not established in the legal or
regulatory framework in relation to human rights, environment, health, security, or other issues;
encouraging business associates to apply RBC principles and standards; etc. See Brazil-United Arab
Emirates CFIA, Article 15 “Corporate Social Responsibility”,
https://aplicacao.itamaraty.gov.br/ApiConcordia/Documento/download/29573.

130

EU-Vietnam FTA, Chapter 13 “Trade and Sustainable Development”, Article 13.10 “Trade and
Investment Favouring Sustainable Development”, paragraph 2(e),
https://trade.ec.europa.eu/doclib/docs/2018/september/tradoc_157373.pdf.

131

EU-Vietnam Investment Protection Agreement, Preamble,
https://trade.ec.europa.eu/doclib/docs/2018/september/tradoc_157391.pdf.

132

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

98 |
OECD (2019), Summary record of the meeting of the WPRBC held on 5-6 November 2019,
DAF/INV/RBC/M(2019)2.
133

Government of the United Kingdom (2019), Tackling modern slavery in government supply chains – A
guide for commercial and procurement professionals,
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/83015
0/September_2019_Modern_Slavery_Guidance.pdf.
134

UN Working Group on the issue of human rights and transnational corporations and other business
enterprises, Report to the UN General Assembly, A/74/198, 19 July 2019, https://undocs.org/en/A/74/198.
135

UN Working Group on the issue of human rights and transnational corporations and other business
enterprises, Report to the UN General Assembly, A/74/198, 19 July 2019, paras. 1-2,
https://undocs.org/en/A/74/198.
136

OHCHR, Time to act: Governments urged to improve record on business and human rights ahead of
major global forum, 21 November 2019,
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=25332&LangID=E.

137

OHCHR, Time to act: Governments urged to improve record on business and human rights ahead of
major global forum, 21 November 2019,
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=25332&LangID=E.

138

OECD (2015), Recommendation of the Council on Guidelines on Corporate Governance of StateOwned Enterprises, OECD/LEGAL/0414, https://legalinstruments.oecd.org/en/instruments/OECDLEGAL-0414; OECD (2019), Recommendation of the Council on Guidelines on Anti-Corruption and
Integrity in State-Owned Enterprises, OECD/LEGAL/0451,
https://legalinstruments.oecd.org/en/instruments/OECD-LEGAL-0451.
139

OECD (2016), Recommendation of the Council on Common Approaches for Officially Supported
Export Credits and Environmental and Social Due Diligence, OECD/LEGAL/0393,
https://legalinstruments.oecd.org/en/instruments/OECD-LEGAL-0393.
140

OECD (2015), Policy Framework for Investment, https://www.oecd.org/daf/inv/investment-policy/PolicyFramework-for-Investment-2015-CMIN2015-5.pdf.
141

OECD (2019), Annual Report on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 2018, see section
3.2.4, http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/2018-Annual-Report-MNE-Guidelines-EN.pdf

142

OECD (2018), OECD Investment Policy Reviews: Cambodia 2018, OECD Investment Policy Reviews,
OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/9789264309074-en.

143

OECD (2018), OECD Investment Policy Reviews: Viet Nam 2018, OECD Publishing, Paris,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/9789264282957-en.

144

OECD (2019), OECD Investment Policy Reviews: Croatia 2019, OECD Investment Policy Reviews,
OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/2bf079ba-en.

145

OECD (2020), Responsible Supply Chains in Asia, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/EU-ILO-OECDResponsible-Supply-Chains-in-Asia-Overview.pdf.
146

The RBC-LAC Project is implemented by the OECD together with the International Labour Organization,
the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNOHCHR), and the European Union (EU) to
147

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

| 99
promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the EU and Latin America and Caribbean by supporting
RBC practices in line with the OECD, ILO and United Nations instruments. For more information, see
OECD (2020), Promoting Responsible Business Conduct in Latin America and the Caribbean,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/rbclac.htm.
OECD (2020), Public Procurement and Responsible Business Conduct,
http://www.oecd.org/governance/public-procurement/procurement-and-rbc/.

148

The Freedom of Investment Roundtable is a forum hosted by the Investment Committee that brings
together over 55 governments to exchange information and experiences on investment policies. For more
information, see http://www.oecd.org/daf/inv/investment-policy/foi.htm.
149

OECD (2020), Consultation paper on business responsibilities and investment treaties,
http://www.oecd.org/daf/inv/investment-policy/Consultation-Paper-on-business-responsibilities-andinvestment-treaties.pdf.
150

The annual OECD Investment Treaty Conference brings together senior policy makers and investment
treaty negotiators from over 55 countries around the world for exchanges with leading representatives of
business, civil society, academia and international organisations. For more information, see
https://www.oecd.org/investment/conference-investment-treaties.htm.

151

OECD (2020), Public consultation on business responsibilities and investment treaties,
http://www.oecd.org/investment/public-consultation-on-business-responsibilities-and-investmenttreaties.htm.
152

The Roundtable for Policy Makers of the GFRBC has regularly included a joint session with the UN
Working Group on Business and Human Rights on the importance of governments developing NAPs on
business and human rights to address policy coherence for responsible business conduct. See, for
instance, OECD (2017), National actions plans on business and human rights to enable policy coherence
for responsible business conduct, https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/NAP-to-enable-policy-coherence-forRBC.pdf.
153

ILO, OECD, UNOHCHR (2019, Responsible business – Key messages from international instruments,
https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Brochure-responsible-business-key-messages-from-internationalinstruments.pdf.
154

The adherence review is done in line with a procedure agreed between the Investment Committee and
the Working Party allowing for a focussed review by the WPRBC of the candidates’ commitments under
the Guidelines as part of the adherence process [DAF/INV(2016)18/FINAL],

155

156

[DAF/INV/ICD/RD(2019)1] and [DAF/INV/ICD/RD(2019)2].

157

[DAF/INV/RD(2019)9].

See OECD website of the RBC LAC project: http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/rbclac.htm; see Project Fact
Sheet
http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-in-Latin-America-and-the-Caribbean-Fact-Sheet.pdf;
see
Project Brochure;
http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-in-Latin-America-and-the-Caribbean-projectoverview-brochure.pdf
158

159

https://4consultaregionalempresasyddhh.sched.com/

160

http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-LAC-country-fact-sheet-Peru.pdf

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

100 |
161

http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/RBC-LAC-country-fact-sheet-Colombia.pdf

162

http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/global-forum/2019-global-forum-responsible-business-conduct.htm

163

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8hsAvmkSSmj8B0VEEyXM4ZRlqKVKOSHE

See for example UN OHCHR’s The Other Infrastructure Gap: Sustainability: Human Rights and
Environmental
Dimensions.
https://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Publications/InfrastructureGapSummary.pdf
164

165

https://www.mof.go.jp/english/international_policy/convention/g20/annex6_1.pdf

166

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/UK-NCP-Peer-Review-2019.pdf

167

https://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Argentina-NCP-Peer-Review-2019.pdf

For more information about TUAC engagement with the work of the Working Party on Responsible
Business Conduct in 2019 see TUAC Annual Report on Responsible Business Paris, 1 March 2020,
https://tuac.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/2020-0318-WGMNE3_RBCAnnualRpt.Eng_.pdf
168

2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES © OECD 2020

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

mneguidelines.oecd.org

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

