OCHA

UNITED NATIONS OFFICE
FOR THE COORDINATION OF
HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS

ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Credits
This publication is produced by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs (OCHA). OCHA wishes to acknowledge the contributions of its committed staff at
headquarters and in the field in preparing this publication.
Front and back cover
OCHA staff speak with affected communities in Darfur, Sudan. Credit: OCHA.
Editing and Graphic Design
OCHA
For additional information, please contact:
Donor Relations Section
ocha.donor.relations@un.org
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
Palais des Nations, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland
Tel: +41 22 917 1690
The designations employed and the presentation of material in this publication do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations
concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or
concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

﻿

OCHA THANKS ITS DONORS FOR THEIR GENEROUS
SUPPORT TO ITS ACTIVITIES IN 2020

MEMBER STATES
ANDORRA

ARMENIA

AUSTRALIA

AUSTRIA

AZERBAIJAN

BANGLADESH

BELGIUM

BHUTAN

BULGARIA

CAMBODIA

CANADA

CHINA

CYPRUS

DENMARK

ESTONIA

FINLAND

FRANCE

GERMANY

GREECE

GUYANA

ICELAND

INDONESIA

IRAN

IRELAND

ITALY

JAPAN

KAZAKHSTAN

KOREA,
REPUBLIC OF

KUWAIT

LATVIA

LIECHTENSTEIN

LITHUANIA

LUXEMBOURG

MALAYSIA

MALTA

MONACO

MONGOLIA

MONTENEGRO

MOROCCO

MYANMAR

NETHERLANDS

NEW ZEALAND

NORWAY

PERU

PHILIPPINES

POLAND

PORTUGAL

QATAR

ROMANIA

RUSSIAN
FEDERATION

SAUDI
ARABIA

SINGAPORE

SLOVAKIA

SLOVENIA

SOUTH AFRICA

SPAIN

SRI LANKA

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND

THAILAND

TURKEY

TURKMENISTAN

UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES

UNITED
KINGDOM

UNITED
STATES

VIET NAM

JERSEY

UN, INGO
AND PRIVATE
SECTOR
PARTNERS

OTHER DONORS
BASQUE
AGENCY FOR
DEVELOPMENT
COOPERATION
(SPAIN)

BELGIAN
GOVERNMENT
OF FLANDERS
(BELGIUM)

CATALAN
AGENCY FOR
DEVELOPMENT
COOPERATION
(SPAIN)

EUROPEAN
COMMISSION

1

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

2020 PRESENCE

1

5

Headquarters
two locations

Regional Offices

30

Country Offices

24

Humanitarian
Adviser Teams

The Hague

Ukraine
Lebanon
(Syria Crisis)

OCHA GENEVA
Switzerland

RO for the Syria Crisis
Jordan (Syria Crisis)
7

OCHA NEW YORK
USA

Turkey (Syria Crisis)

MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA
Cairo, Egypt

Guatemala Honduras

Regional Office coverage
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

El Salvador

Barbados

Venezuela

LATIN AMERICA AND THE
CARIBBEAN
Panamá, Panama

CAR - Central African Republic
DRC - Democratic Republic of the Congo
DPR of Korea - Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
OPT - Occupied Palestinian Territory
Syrian AR - Syrian Arab Republic
IR Iran - Islamic Republic of Iran
Regional Office for the Syria Crisis, Amman, Jordan
Operational coordination team

Haiti

Ecuador

The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the
United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its
authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

Colombia

Mali
Burkina
Faso

Niger

Chad

Nigeria CAR1
Cameroon

WEST AND CENTRAL
AFRICA
Dakar, Senegal

DRC2

Kuwait8

DPR of
Korea3

Kyrgyzstan
Tajikistan

6
Syrian AR5 IR Iran
Afghanistan
OPT4 Iraq

Libya

Mexico

Kazakhstan

Georgia

Japan

Pakistan

Qatar8

ASIA AND THE
PACIFIC
Bangkok,
Thailand

United Arab
Saudi
8
Arabia8 Emirates

Sudan Eritrea

Yemen

Myanmar

Philippines

Ethiopia
South Sudan
Somalia
SOUTHERN AND
Burundi EASTERN AFRICA
Nairobi, Kenya

Peru
Madagascar

Zimbabwe

Indonesia

Office of the
Pacific Islands

Mozambique

3

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

﻿

OCHA 2020
YEAR IN REVIEW

Global Humanitarian Response Plans
to help vulnerable people in the fight
against COVID-19

1.3M monthly
users in
ReliefWeb

56 country
operations
in Humanitarian
Response.info

18k data sets in
Humanitarian
Data Exchange

Partnerships with businesses to
strengthen humanitarian response
Steps to protect vulnerable groups
including older people, women & girls,
and people with disabilities

381 maps

Strengthened local response:

1,643 infographics

Deployments by surge mechanism

30 Deployments from headquarters
including 12 Core Team deployments

140 MORE
THAN IN 2019

23 countries and 3 regions
used the online Situation Reports

IN 7 DIFFERENT
LANGUAGES

United Nations Disaster Assessment
and Coordination deployments
Joint Environment Unit deployments*
Deployments from country offices,
including 14 from the Country Office
Surge Pool
Deployments by location
Europe, Central Asia
and the Caucasus

Health challenges in humanitarian contexts
Preventing sexual and gender-based violence

51
Middle East and
North Africa

Durable solutions for internally displaced persons
1
Asia and
the Pacific

32

Latin America
and the Caribbean

12
Southern and
Eastern Africa

4

UN Economic and Social Council’s
Humanitarian Affairs Segment

West and
Central Africa

Of these, one mission (Mauritius) was a JEU-only mission, two in conjuction with UNDAC.
Note: The above figures do not reflect all of the deployments that occurred across country
and regional offices or remote support.

*

Anticipatory approach to COVID-19 & other crises

Under-Secretary-General advocacy
Supported pandemic relief
& vaccines for the world’s poorest countries
Highlighted the impact of climate, conflict
& the pandemic on food security
Sounded the alarm on the impact of locusts
Underlined support for people in the Central Sahel

4

9M

8M
$84

8M

Assistant Secretary-General advocacy
18 countries
reached through
pooled funds

$53
2019

Spotlighted gender-related issues/gender-based violence

$90

$1.0

6M
$83
1M
$50
2018

Conducted virtual missions to meet affected communities
& local NGOs in Burkina Faso & South Sudan

CBPFs

2B

CERF

2020

Mission to Afghanistan to highlight pandemic
& climate impact on people
Data responsibility in humanitarian action
Inclusive approach in humanitarian action

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

﻿

Contents
	6	FOREWORD

	8	 MAKING LIVES BETTER
	9	

RESPONDING TO THE PANDEMIC’S IMPACT

	13	

GEARING UP FOR COVID-19

	19	

FIELD OFFICES

	55	

PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY AND THE EMPOWERMENT OF WOMEN AND GIRLS

	58	

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT, A CRITICAL OCHA FUNCTION

	59	

OCHA’S ROLE IN THE INTER-AGENCY STANDING COMMITTEE

	64	

HUMANITARIAN FINANCING

	 7 3	 TRANSFORMING HUMANITARIAN ACTION
	 7 9	FUNDING
	8 8	ANNEXES
	89	ACRONYMS
	90	

OCHA ORGANIZATION CHART

	92	

FINANCIAL TABLES

OCHA in action
12	

REAL-LIFE HEROES HONOURED IN WORLD HUMANITARIAN DAY CAMPAIGN

14	

WEST AFRICA OFFICE SUPPORTS HURRICANE RESPONSE

16	

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORTS COVID-19 DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS

16	

REMOTE SUPPORT EXPERIENCE

18	

STANDBY PARTNERS’ SUPPORT

21	

TECHNICAL SUPPORT FOR OIL SPILL IN MAURITIUS

41	

DEPLOYMENTS TO HURRICANE-HIT CENTRAL AMERICA

44	

BUSINESSES PARTNER TO STRENGTHEN HUMANITARIAN RESPONSES

45	

HUMANITARIAN PARTNERSHIPS WEEK

52	

SUPPORT FOR BEIRUT

54	

PEERS PROVIDE VIRTUAL SUPPORT

65	

TRANSPARENCY AND FUNDING FOR OCHA

67	

CERF INNOVATES IN RESPONSE TO PANDEMIC-RELATED NEEDS

68	

OCHA HELPS ROLL OUT ANTICIPATORY ACTION

70	

VENEZUELA HUMANITARIAN FUND & REGIONAL POOLED FUND FOR CENTRAL AND WEST AFRICA ESTABLISHED

71	

ADDRESSING CHRONICALLY UNDERFUNDED AREAS

83	

OCHA DONOR SUPPORT GROUP

5

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

﻿

In January 2020, the
UN humanitarian
chief, Mark Lowcock,
visited the Zaatari

Foreword

refugee camp in
Jordan, home to
over 76,000 women,
children and men.
He met with Syrian
families and the aid
agencies helping
them. Credit: OCHA

2020 was a year like no other. New and protracted conflicts and a mounting climate
crisis had already generated record-high humanitarian needs. Then came the COVID-19
pandemic. It upended the entire world, but
its secondary impacts hit vulnerable countries hardest.

(CERF) allocated $490 million to respond
to the COVID-19 crisis. This funding enabled the World Food Programme and partners to expand logistics services, including
the transportation of supplies and emergency workers.

CERF piloted new ways of working in response to the pandemic. They included
providing more flexible funding to UN
agencies and more direct funding to NGOs
responding on the front lines; earmarking a
portion of resources for women-led organizations to respond to gender-based violence;
increasing support for cash programming;
In response to the pandemic, OCHA and its and allowing for more flexibility to adjust
partners in the Inter-Agency Standing Com- projects in light of so much uncertainty.
mittee launched the Global Humanitarian
Response Plan for COVID-19. It called for Humanitarian organizations adapted
US$9.5 billion to boost health, food, pro- their programmes to respect social distection, livelihoods and education services, tancing guidelines. OCHA shifted staff to
and to ensure continued support for existing work remotely wherever possible, and it
humanitarian programmes in 63 countries. boosted support to field teams across CenBy the year’s end, donors had provided tral and South America and Southern and
$3.8 billion.
Eastern Africa.
The pandemic closed schools, strained
health systems, disrupted food imports,
triggered a surge in gender-based violence
and triggered a global economic downturn
that sharpened inequality. Poverty rates are
rising, and decades of progress are at risk.

The Country-Based Pooled Funds (CBPFs)
and the Central Emergency Response Fund

6

The pandemic heightened pre-existing hunger levels, leaving 270 million people facing

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

﻿

starvation by the year’s end. At the sharpest
end were communities in the Central Sahel,
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, South
Sudan, north-east Nigeria and Yemen that
were just one step away from famine. OCHA
raised the alarm in the Security Council of
the risk of multiple famines.

flooding to many parts of the world, including the Sahel and Horn of Africa regions.
The Caribbean experienced its most active
hurricane season on record. Millions of
people in Central America were affected by
Hurricanes Eta and Iota, with El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua hardest hit. OCHA deployed search-and-rescue
The OCHA-coordinated Global Human- teams and supported needs assessments
itarian Overview for 2020 called for $38.5 and coordination efforts.
billion, which donors responded to with $19
billion in funding.
OCHA mobilized funding for response to
storms in the Philippines and Viet Nam.
To help humanitarian organizations get When Cyclone Harold hit Vanuatu, the
ahead of crises, OCHA provided $140 million OCHA-managed Connecting Business initiafrom CERF for anticipatory action. This in- tive collaborated with the Vanuatu Business
cluded landmark projects to avert suffering Resilience Council to support emergency
amid imminent food insecurity in Somalia response by the private sector.
and floods in Bangladesh. In Somalia, for
example, anticipatory funding was pivotal On top of the climate crisis, conflict and vito reducing the impact of multiple shocks olence deepened in the Central Sahel, with
for over 600,000 Somalis. Importantly, it Burkina Faso becoming the world’s fastest
helped mobilize additional funding to re- growing displacement crisis. OCHA co-hostduce needs amid the triple threat of floods, ed a donor conference, raising $1.7 billion
a locust infestation and COVID-19. Forecasts for humanitarian support to Burkina Faso,
in October estimated that 2.1 million peo- Mali and Niger.
ple would be in crisis by the year’s end, but
the assistance provided helped reduce that In November, violence broke out in Ethiopia’s Tigray region. OCHA advocated for
number to 1.6 million.
the protection of civilians and respect for
CERF and CBPFs allocated a record $1.8 bil- international humanitarian law so that aid
agencies could gain access to protect and
lion to support humanitarian action.
assist millions of people in need.
Needs rose in Syria, leaving more than half
of the population reliant on emergency as- All our efforts were possible only through the
sistance. OCHA mobilized resources, negoti- generosity and commitment of our donors
ated humanitarian access and advocated for and partners. Thank you for your contribucivilians to be better protected. Aid through tions to OCHA and to humanitarian action.
the Humanitarian Response Plan reached 3.9
million people each month.

Yemen remained the world’s worst crisis in
2020, with 13 million people unsure where
their next meal would come from and 16,000
people starving. Despite these acute needs,
donors reduced funding, which meant aid
operations had to be downscaled.
Mark Lowcock
The impacts of the climate crisis brought
prolonged drought, intense storms and

United Nations Under-Secretary-General
for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency
Relief Coordinator

7

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

MAKING LIVES
BETTER
OCHA serves the world’s most vulnerable people through its
staff based in offices around the world.
Humanitarian response in 2020 was like no other year.
In the words of UN Secretary-General António Guterres, the
world was confronting the “biggest international challenge
since the Second World War.”
OCHA helped mobilize $3.8 billion for response efforts
including the Global Humanitarian Response Plan for
COVID-19, which it coordinated to target more than 260 million
people globally.
OCHA teams negotiated on issues such as access, respect
for humanitarian principles, and protection of civilians and aid
workers to ensure that affected people received life-saving
relief on time.
OCHA’s pooled funds provided $1.8 billion to hundreds of UN
and national and international non-governmental organizations
and facilitated their work.

8

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Responding to the
pandemic’s impact

2020 was a year like no other. Amid ongoing humanitarian crises largely fuelled by
conflict, violence and the effects of climate
change, the world battled with a global pandemic. Between March and December, there
were more than 82 million COVID-19 cases
and nearly 2 million deaths.

Thirty per cent of global COVID-19 cases and
39 per cent of deaths were in GHRP countries in 2020. The GHRP initially requested
$2 billion, but as the pandemic evolved and
its consequences reverberated in vulnerable settings, it was updated twice to cover
63 countries and the request significantly
increased to $9.5 billion. By 31 December,
To address the pandemic’s immediate hu- donors had generously provided $3.8 billion
manitarian consequences and help vulner- through the GHRP.
able countries respond, the UN issued the
Global Humanitarian Response Plan (GHRP) Beyond the pandemic’s immediate health
for COVID-19 in March 2020. It was a joint impacts, its secondary impacts were parInter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC) ticularly grievous in humanitarian settings
effort, coordinated by OCHA and supported and reinforced by pandemic-related travel
by partners.
and movement restrictions.

Two girls at AlShaab IDP camp in
Aden, Yemen. Credit:
OCHA/Giles Clarke

9

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Lockdowns, market volatility, supply chain
disruptions and labour movement restrictions due to border closures drastically increased food insecurity, plunging more than
270 million people worldwide into acute
food insecurity by the year’s end.

The plan’s impact

Economic contractions worldwide caused
the first increase in extreme poverty since
1998. Between 119 million and 124 million
people could fall back into extreme poverty
due to the pandemic, with an additional
increase of between 24 million and 39 million people in 2021. This potentially brings
the number of additional people living in
extreme poverty to between 143 million and
163 million.2

Highlights of assistance provided through
the GHRP with OCHA-mobilized resources include:

Despite mobility restrictions, humanitarian workers quickly adapted and innovated
measures to honour the IASC pledge to stay
and deliver aid to the most vulnerable people.

In the Central African Republic (CAR), for
Gender-based violence (GBV) increased example, humanitarian organizations resharply as schools and safe spaces were organized camps for internally displaced
closed and women and girls were trapped persons (IDPs), creating zones to isolate
with their aggressors during lockdowns. COVID-19 cases and moving families with
Some countries recorded a 700 per cent in- cases into special zones within camps to
crease in calls to GBV hotlines in the months provide specific and specialized assistance.
after the pandemic began.
Thanks to funds raised by OCHA, a home deEssential health services for the most vulner- livery eShop was established in Somalia by
able people were also disrupted due to the partner the World Food Programme (WFP),
pandemic. By December, 35 GHRP countries which became a key organization in the pan(56 per cent) had postponed at least one demic response. With the eShop smartphone
mass-immunization campaign for a vac- app, affected people can redeem their enticine-preventable disease due to COVID-19.1 tlement online, from their homes. The app
is now deployed throughout Somalia, with
Health service disruptions also led to a 30 47,000 users and more than 1,200 retailers.
per cent reduction in the global coverage of
essential nutrition services, leaving nearly In Afghanistan, OCHA, WFP and the Cash
7 million additional children at risk of acute and Voucher Working Group engaged with
malnutrition. School closures saw the loss of the World Bank for a complementary nationan important early intervention opportunity al cash/food assistance programme, which
for protection, mental health and psycho- aimed to reach vulnerable people with sosocial support, and nutrition programmes. cial safety nets.

•	 Eighty-seven per cent of GHRP countries
(55 out of 63) received personal protective equipment.
•	 All GHRP countries received GBV prevention messaging.
•	 At least 129 million children in 60 GHRP
countries benefited from virtual or homebased education.
•	 Essential health services were provided
to 57 million people in 60 GHRP countries.

1	 This is an improvement from June 2020, when 70 per cent of GHRP countries had at least one mass-immunization campaign
affected.
2	 Updated estimates of the impact of COVID-19 on global poverty: Looking back at 2020 and the outlook for 2021 (worldbank.org).

10

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

•	 In 61 GHRP countries, 39.4 million refugees, GHRP funding helped establish the Global
IDPs and migrants particularly vulnerable Common Services to mobilize humanitarian
to the pandemic received assistance.
staff and cargo and overcome travel restrictions. This enabled WFP to transport almost
Livelihood support was provided through 28,000 health and humanitarian personnel,
cash-based transfers, skills training and from 426 organizations, between March
agricultural inputs. Examples include:
2020 and January 2021.
•	 Additional cash and/or food assistance
was provided to more than 1 million Palestine refugees across five fields of operation
through UNRWA.
•	 More than 1.2 million people in 47 GHRP
countries received livelihood support, including cash-based assistance, through
the International Organization for Migration (IOM).
•	 The Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO) delivered livelihoods support (e.g.
cash transfers, agricultural inputs and
technical assistance) to over 4 million
households, or nearly 24 million people,
46 per cent of whom were women.
•	 More than 764,000 people received food
assistance, more than 559,700 people
received cash/voucher assistance and
almost 596,890 people received cash
assistance in 23 GHRP countries through
Care International.

The GHRP covered the period between
March and December 2020, with the COVID-19 response integrated into ‘regular’ Humanitarian Needs Overviews (HNOs) and
Humanitarian Response Plans (HRPs) for
2021. Country teams worked to align the humanitarian response with other ongoing or
planned pandemic responses, particularly
with development partners. This enabled
COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 humanitarian responses to be reflected together in
the Global Humanitarian Overview (GHO)
for 2021. This integration also signalled
the synchronization of COVID-19 and
non-COVID-19 funding requirements and
reporting under the regular Humanitarian
Programme Cycle (HPC).

Eutur Nafra and
her colleague
demonstrate
COVID-19 safety
measures at Abnaa
Mhin IDP camp in
Syria’s northern
Idleb Governorate.
Eutur was one of
several women who
raised community
awareness of the
virus. Credit: OCHA

11

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Real-life heroes
honoured in World
Humanitarian Day campaign
Front-line humanitarian heroes who save and
protect lives despite conflict, insecurity, lack
of access and COVID-19 were the focus of
the 2020 OCHA-led World Humanitarian Day
(WHD) campaign.
Using the hashtag #RealLifeHeroes, the
campaign brought many heroes’ stories to life.
It defined ‘hero’ to include local aid workers,
who embody heroic qualities – strength,
resilience, bravery, perseverance and commitment – to help others, despite often being in
need themselves. The campaign gave special
attention to their dedication and self-sacrifice,
and to their ongoing commitment to bring
food, shelter, health care, protection and hope
to others amid conflict, displacement, disaster and disease.
WHD social media content peaked on Twitter
at #18 globally, #6 in the USA, #2 in Sweden and Pakistan, and #1 in Switzerland.
There was strong engagement from young
people, who expressed support for humanitarian action.

World Humanitarian
Day 2020
celebrated front-line
humanitarian heroes
such as Dr. Amin
Qassem, seen here
with Hussein Saleh
recovering from
COVID-19 at Al
Jomhoria Hospital in
Aden, Yemen. Credit:
OCHA/Giles Clarke

12

Heads of State (including French President
Macron and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau),
Governments, donor agencies, the private
sector and influencers also rallied around the
campaign, with notable endorsements from
UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) Goodwill Ambassador Priyanka Chopra, UN Messenger of
Peace Michael Douglas, and tennis champion
Novak Djokovic.
The WHD platform (worldhumanitarianday.org),
stories and visuals were shared in more than
136 countries, and the centrepiece film, titled
‘What makes heroes heroes?’, was viewed by
over 1.3 million people.
The campaign received global traditional media coverage, including from Al Jazeera, Devex
and Thomson Reuters, with more than 2,000
articles noting WHD’s significance and the
importance of front-line humanitarian workers.
OCHA’s regional and country offices worked
with partners and national media to promote
their own #RealLifeHeroes and humanitarian
issues in local languages, including through
photo exhibits, billboards, news articles, and
radio and television broadcasts.

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Gearing up for COVID-19

Despite the
pandemic, OCHA
staff continued
to deliver. OCHA

The pandemic forced the UN to operate in a tools. OCHA was the first UN Secretariat
different way, including by working remote- entity to fully deploy the Office 365 suite
ly. OCHA was already well prepared for this. of internal collaboration and communications tools. Despite logistical difficulties
From providing remote support to deal- with providing consistent Internet access in
ing with hurricanes and helping forcibly many OCHA locations by June, its adoption
displaced people, to evacuating aid work- rate of the core Office 365 tools was almost
ers who needed emergency medical care, 100 per cent.
OCHA staff found ways to keep working
to help those who needed it most through
the pandemic.

Director of
Operations Reena
Ghelani (third
from left) is on her
way to listen to
displaced people
and their host
families in Drodro,
Djugu Territory, DRC.
Credit: OCHA/Ivo
Brandau

COVID-19 REMOTE COLLABORATION

Despite the hurdles, there were also oppor- STAFF USE OF ONLINE TOOLS
tunities to work more collaboratively.
Microsoft Teams

Smooth transition to a remote
work environment

OCHA transitioned to a fully remote work
environment in 2020, thanks to extensive
work already under way since 2018 to modernize communication and collaboration

94%
SharePoint
94%
OneDrive
90%

13

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Remote surge support

OCHA’s Information Management Branch
invested considerable effort in providing
remote support to field operations due to
increased workloads and pandemic-related
travel restrictions.
Remote surge was scaled up to support several OCHA country offices (Columbia, Ethiopia, the Philippines, Somalia and Sudan; and
Humanitarian Advisory Teams in Azerbaijan,
Guatemala and Honduras) and two regional
offices that cover Latin America and the Caribbean (ROLAC), and Southern and Eastern
Africa (ROSEA). This was in addition to the
support provided by standby partners and
regional offices and to other offices coping
with multiple crises.
OCHA’s remote-support model helped field
operations carry out essential work under
extremely difficult circumstances and often
at overstretched capacity. This work included vital tasks such as recruitment, creating
infographics, and preparing data entry
systems (especially on COVID-19-related
activities) and funding analysis tools.
Staff welfare and duty of care

As staff had to work under exceptional circumstances, OCHA strengthened its counselling capacity: four clinical psychologists
provided round-the-clock support in different time zones.
The OCHA Staff Welfare team was available
at all times to support the mental health care
of all staff, to navigate their many personal
and professional challenges, and to address
the impact of stress and anxiety caused by
the pandemic.
UN system-wide medical evacuations

In response to the pandemic, OCHA worked
jointly with a UN System-Wide Task Force on
Medical Evacuations (MEDEVAC) to provide
a much-needed safety net to its personnel
and partners so they could stay in their duty

14

stations and deliver. COVID-19 MEDEVACs,
as a last resort, ensure the availability of
life-saving airlifts and medical facilities to
those who fall seriously ill and require a level
of care not available in their location. Over
320 MEDEVAC requests had been made from
almost 60 countries by 22 May 2021, which
marked one year since the mechanism began.
Successful replication of the structure to roll
out the Front Line of Defense and UN vaccine deployment mechanisms is testament
to the strength of the One UN partnership
and its ability to work together in the face
of unprecedented circumstances.

West Africa office supports
hurricane response
Tropical Storm Eta and Hurricane Iota made
landfall on 3 and 16 November, respectively.
They hit Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador
and Nicaragua especially hard, affecting at
least 7.3 million people across those countries. Flooding and landslides damaged or
destroyed thousands of homes and key infrastructure in nine countries.
A simultaneous multi-country response
required ongoing remote centralized coordination between in-country partners and support
from regional offices and headquarters.
Surge deployments to Guatemala and Honduras quickly stretched ROLAC’s information
management (IM) resources. When ROLAC’s
regional IM Officer was deployed to Guatemala, OCHA’s Head of IM in the Regional
Office for West Africa (ROWCA) stepped in
remotely from Dakar to take up the regional
IM coordination tasks. OCHA Dakar provided coherent and effective management of
information products and requests throughout
the response.

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

(Left) Roberto
Colombo-Llimona,
Head of IM at OCHA
ROWCA, during a
mission to Guinea.
Credit: OCHA
(Below) Brenda
Eriksen with
colleagues during
a mission to
Guatemala.
Credit: OCHA

IM work in an emergency is key: from data collection and analysis to reporting, there is a need
to ensure 24/7 coverage, and remote surge allowed for that. What normally is a weakness –
time difference – with remote support became a strength: the team in Panama could get some
rest knowing that the team in Dakar was taking over.”
Roberto Colombo-Llimona, Head of IM, OCHA ROWCA

“In a disaster-prone region… IM work becomes
more complex – from supporting individual
countries to continuing to provide a regional
overview of the impact… while continuing
to find new, better ways to inform on the
ongoing response. During Hurricanes Eta
and Iota, one of our biggest achievements
was the roll-out of the 345W platform, which
helped improve monitoring of the response
by simplifying the reporting of field activities
and providing a real-time dashboard
for analysis.”
Brenda Eriksen, IM Officer, OCHA ROLAC

15

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Information Management
supports COVID-19 data
collection and analysis
Since the pandemic began, OCHA’s global
IM teams collected, analysed and published
critical data to track the pandemic’s spread
and the ongoing response. This was especially
critical in countries already battling multiple
crises even before the pandemic.

Dedicated IM cell supports
field locations
In April 2020, the Global Information Management, Assessment and Analysis Cell (GIMAC)
on COVID-19 was established to coordinate,
structure, collate, manage and analyse
pandemic-related information. The cell also
provided technical support and services to prioritized countries and global decision-making.
GIMAC was a multi-stakeholder initiative
co-led by OCHA, the UN Refugee Agency
(UNHCR), the World Health Organization
(WHO), the Global Health Cluster and IOM. It
operated with support from donors and UN
and NGO partners.
Practical support to field operations was initiated in May 2020.
Until August 2020, GIMAC supported humanitarian response in Ethiopia and Iraq, focusing
on the direct and secondary impacts of COVID-19 combined with ongoing humanitarian
shocks and consequences.
In September 2020, GIMAC expanded its
field support services and received funding
to initiate a multi-country secondary data
review project. Through support from the NGO
Data Friendly Space and the Danish Refugee
Council, GIMAC began working with OCHA in
Afghanistan, Cameroon, Niger, Somalia and
South Sudan. Priorities included an enhanced
assessment registry; secondary data review
of country-level assessments, surveys and

16

situation reports; support to joint analysis; and
a review of information gaps for geographical
areas, affected groups and sectors.
In November 2020, following the worsening
situation in Tigray, Ethiopia, GIMAC supported
OCHA Ethiopia with primary data collection
and the adoption of methodologies and tools
for intersectoral needs assessments.
Eight countries received GIMAC support services.
GIMAC activities depended on the active
participation of OCHA, UNHCR, WHO, the
Global Health Cluster, UNICEF, Impact Initiative,
MapAction and more than 30 UN Online Volunteers. Its activities were funded by the United
States Agency for International Development’s
Bureau of Humanitarian Assistance and resources from its co-leads and active partners.

Remote support experience
Adnan Mohammed, Head of
Administration, OCHA ROSEA
As an Administrative Officer, I support staff
wherever they are. My job became even more
difficult during the pandemic and put so much
pressure on colleagues like me, who were
trying to find solutions.
At the regional office level, one of our key
priorities was to ensure that all our colleagues
had Internet connection for telecommuting,
regardless of their location. Within a week this
was done, and where power outages would
be more likely, such as in Madagascar, we
managed to get a solar panel/backup in place
so staff would have Internet connection.
Our work today certainly comes with more
challenges and requires more patience. For
instance, we had to support the travel of four
OCHA South Sudan staff members from Juba
to Nairobi. As you can imagine, there were
many delays and protocols to observe: you

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Adnan Mohammed,
OCHA ROSEA

need to link up with authorities on both sides
and with Joint Medical Services, and secure
flight clearance through Nairobi-based focal
points. And then you have last-minute changes
and delays! Health protocols, in particular, are
not always clear and often change. Therefore,
it is more challenging for staff to travel than
it used to be.
Two of our staff members were stuck in Zambia and Zimbabwe. They went on surge missions and couldn’t come back to Nairobi, their
duty station. But they managed to telecommute and regularly join our team meetings. On
Fridays, these meetings always became less
operational and more social — a way to be
with each other.
At a personal level, I was deeply affected. My
wife travelled home (Addis), and shortly after
they closed the airport in Nairobi. Not only did
we miss her, but I was left having to take care
of our five children on top of my work. It was
quite exhausting.

17

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Standby partners’ support
Since its launch 20 years ago, OCHA’s StandBy Partnership Programme (SBPP) has
become a key component of OCHA’s surge
capability, providing much-needed expertise
during humanitarian emergencies.
The programme, governed by UN General
Assembly resolutions, currently provides gratis
personnel from 14 organizations.
On average, 41 SBPP deployments take place
each year. In 2020, 60 SBPP experts were
deployed, for an average of 5.5 months, to new
and escalating humanitarian emergencies,
and to situations where specific expertise
was required but unavailable within OCHA.
Twenty-seven of these experts were deployed,
including for the first time to headquarters, to
support the whole-of-OCHA response to the

pandemic. The 60 deployments represented
an in-kind contribution to OCHA of approximately $5.3 million.
Information management officers (IMOs) are
the most deployed job profile, accounting for
nearly half of all deployments. Most IMOs
provided remote support during the pandemic response.
Humanitarian affairs officers continued to
be in high demand either as generalists or as
individuals with specific expertise.

SBP DEPLOYMENT BY
PARTNER ORGANIZATION
UK FCDO funded
SBP funded
Jointly funded UK FCDO/NRC

CANADEM

13

NRC

10

Red R Australia

7

DRC

3

IMMAP

5

MSB

5

MapAction

4

ZIF

4

SDC
Irish Aid

18

3

3
1

1

1

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Field offices
WHAT OCHA’S OFFICES DO
Support Governments’ response to
a crisis.
Support the Resident/Humanitarian
Coordinator in coordinating a response.
Develop a common needs assessment
and common response plan for the
aid community.

Provide up-to-date information
on the crisis and the needs of the
affected people.
Advocate for the needs and protection
of affected people and aid workers.
Advocate for access to affected people.

Build a common strategy to respond.

Help mobilize and track resources for
crisis response.

Manage Country-Based Pooled Funds.

Track and monitor crisis response.

EASTERN AND SOUTHERN AFRICA
Regional Office for Southern and Eastern
Africa (ROSEA)

disruptions to health systems and services, which compromised critical testing and
treatment of chronic diseases and immunization programmes.

Eastern and Southern Africa faced multiple shocks in 2020, including the pandemic, ROSEA’s top priority remained responding
crop-threatening pests, droughts, food in- to new or escalating emergencies through
security and conflict.
surge and expert support missions across the
25 countries under its coverage (and beyond).
By the year’s end, conflict in Mozambique’s It provided some 1,100 physical surge days
Cabo Delgado Province had displaced nearly and around 1,800 days of remote support.
670,000 people, almost 580,000 of whom
were displaced during 2020 alone. At least 29 ROSEA also played a critical role in galvanizmillion people across Eastern Africa were af- ing attention to and funding for major and
fected by severe food insecurity, with conflict forgotten humanitarian crises across the
being a major driver. Over 900,000 people in region: it supported the roll-out of nearly
Madagascar and 2.6 million Zimbabweans $85.9 million from CERF for some of the
countries it supports. ROSEA developed 10
were severely food insecure.
emergency appeals, providing remote coorSevere weather events continued to impact dination expertise to multiple countries, and
the region. They included Cyclone Herold it supported WHO’s regional coordination
in March, which affected Madagascar and efforts for the pandemic response.
Mauritius, and Tropical Storm Chalana in
December, which affected Madagascar, Mo- OCHA ROSEA also provided expertise on critzambique and Zimbabwe.
ical humanitarian issues, including humanitarian access negotiations (Tigray and Cabo
The pandemic exacerbated existing vulner- Delgado) and civil-military coordination.
abilities including gender-based violence
(GBV). Supply chains were also affected ROSEA had 32 staff (18 national, 14 internaresulting in food deficits, price hikes and tional) along with two Nairobi-based United

19

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

“My family is
still there. I was
the only one
to flee. All our
belongings were
destroyed. I’m
in touch with
my family, they
are suffering
but safe. Lots
of people died
due to heavy
gunfire.”

An 85-year-old
man from Temben
(Central Tigray),
Ethiopia. Credit:
OCHA/Jordi
Casafont

20

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Nations Volunteers (UNVs). It had a Humanitarian Advisory Team (HAT) of three staff
(two local, one international) in Madagascar,
and a field presence in Mozambique with
three staff (one national, two international)
supported by one national and one international UNV; in Zambia with two national
staff; and in Zimbabwe with three national
staff and one UNV.

The UN Environment Programme and OCHA’s
Joint Environment Unit, with support from the
International Maritime Organization, deployed
an oil-spill expert, who worked with a team deployed from ROSEA to assist the Government
in coordinating its response efforts. Support
included technical advice, coordinating immediate response and advising on continued
longer-term recovery efforts.

Displaced by
conflict, people
sought refuge on
Paquitequete beach,
Pemba City, Cabo
Delgado Province,
Mozambique.
Credit: UN/Helvisney
Cardoso

Technical support for oil
spill in Mauritius
While carrying nearly 4,200 metric tons of
fuel, the bulk carrier vessel MW Wakashio ran
aground on the reef of Point d’Esny in Mauritius in July. When the vessel began leaking
oil, the Government of Mauritius requested
international assistance.

The deployment of the expert and the wider
OCHA team, while slightly delayed due to
pandemic-related travel restrictions, provided
an impartial technical understanding of the
oil spill to all responders including national
authorities, fisheries, communities, the private
sector and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
The team organized and facilitated daily technical coordination meetings with de-polluting
companies to ensure coherence and efficiency,

21

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

advised the police commissioner leading the
overall response coordination, and regularly
debriefed the UN Resident Coordinator (RC)
and the Humanitarian Country Team (HCT)
about the crisis response management.
The expert and the OCHA team also ensured
an onsite coordination point for all responders to work together and receive and share
information. This had a significant positive impact, as the space allowed response working
groups to organize meetings and provide an
Internet connection and an information board
with maps. The space became the entry point
for all international support teams to join the
national response.

Burundi

2020 was characterized by increasing needs
due to natural disasters and the pandemic’s
socioeconomic impact, which exacerbated
the needs of the most vulnerable people. At
least 1.7 million people required humanitarian assistance.
OCHA coordinated the response to flooding
in rural Bujumbura and other areas. It set
up a hub system in provinces to ensure information sharing during the elections and
enhanced coordination of activities. OCHA
also played a significant role in coordinating the pandemic response and duty of care
measures, including for the wider international NGO community.

22

In the last quarter of 2020, the deployment
of a specialist from the Protection Standby Capacity Project and the revision of the
HCT Protection Strategy marked increased
emphasis on strengthening protection. The
specialist’s deployment also allowed the
HCT to develop a two-year road map to implement the protection strategy.
The year ended with the HRP funded only 45
per cent, but the total humanitarian funding
reached an all-time high, with almost $112
million mobilized.
OCHA Burundi had 14 staff (6 national, 8
international), all based in Bujumbura, including a JPO and a UNV. A staff member
from the Democratic Republic of the Congo
(DRC) deployed for three months to support
the IM team for the 2021 HPC process and
coordination of the pandemic response.

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Eritrea

Eritrea suffered from drought-induced food
insecurity, malnutrition and protection
challenges, especially due to the pandemic-related lockdown. The initial number of
reported COVID-19 cases remained low but
then increased towards the end of 2020. The
desert locust infestation was a significant
concern, as was access to health services,
including maternal health in remote areas.
Immunization coverage was low, especially
in remote areas.

OCHA supported the UN Resident Coordinator/Humanitarian Coordinator (RC/
HC) and the UN country team (UNCT) to
identify humanitarian priorities in the Strategic Partnership Cooperation Framework
(SPCF 2017–2021).

Children wade
through water
flooding their village
in Bujumbura,
Burundi. They are
heading to the main
road where families

OCHA facilitated, consolidated and monitored the implementation of the 2019 Basic
Services Response Priorities (BSRP) document — an internal UN plan that included
humanitarian “basic service” priorities, such
as clean water and primary health care, as
part of the SPCF.

are gathered with
their belongings, but
with nowhere to go.
Credit: OCHA/
Lauriane Wolfe

23

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

After fighting broke
out in Tigray, Iridia
and her brother fled
on a tractor from
Humera to Shiraro.
They then walked
90 km to Shire and
continued the rest
of their journey
to Mekelle on a
construction truck.
Credit: OCHA/Jordi
Casafon

Through the BSRP, OCHA coordinated analysis of the humanitarian situation and prioritized needs and the response. The BSRP
required almost $35 million, and mobilization efforts raised 43 per cent ($15 million)
to assist 959,000 people.

floods and the desert locust invasion, the
number of food-insecure people increased
from 8.5 million at the beginning of the year
to 11.9 million by midyear.

Conflict, violence, physical challenges and
bureaucratic impediments constrained huOCHA provided coordination and IM sup- manitarian access and operations, resulting
port to the RC/HC, UNCT and donors to track in a serious protection environment that
funding and implementation of the BSRP affected the civilian population and humanand the SPCF.
itarian workers. About 114 humanitarian
partners (62 international NGOs, 28 national
OCHA Eritrea had seven staff (five national, NGOs, 11 UN agencies, 10 Government agencies, 3 Red Cross members, 24 donors and
two international) and one UNV.
media houses) benefited from OCHA’s coordination, information, management and
Ethiopia
advocacy initiatives.
Slow-onset drought, disease outbreaks,
flooding, conflict, intercommunal violence OCHA’s advocacy addressed access chaland internal displacement affected Ethiopia. lenges in different parts of the country
Towards the end of the year, large-scale con- throughout the year, including in Tigray at
flict began in Tigray, creating new humani- the end of 2020.
tarian needs for more than 1.3 million people
(as of end 2020). Due to the pandemic and Due to increased needs, OCHA revised the
other health outbreaks, conflict, drought, 2020 HRP with a requirement of almost

24

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

$1.5 billion to reach some 15 million people.
A three-month HRP for northern Ethiopia was developed in November, seeking
$116.5 million.

With 72 staff (53 national, 19 international)
and 3 UNVs, OCHA Somalia maintained a
country office in Mogadishu; field offices in
Baidoa (South West), Belet Weyne (HirShabelle), Dhusamareeb (Galmudug), Garowe
(Puntland), Hargeisa (Somaliland), Kismayo
and Doolow (Jubaland) and Mogadishu (Banadir); and an office in Nairobi, Kenya.

Humanitarian financing mechanisms also
supported the Ethiopia-wide response: the
Ethiopia Humanitarian Fund provided $57.5
million to 106 projects, and CERF allocated
$21 million. An Anticipatory Action Framework was finalized to mitigate the drought’s South Sudan
impact, with just over $13 million allocated Communities were hit hard by internal violence, a second consecutive year of flooding
to the first set of activities.
that affected more than 900,000 people, and
OCHA’s work in Ethiopia was supported by a pandemic-related economic downturn.
74 staff (61 national, 13 international), one Some 1.6 million people remained internally
UNV and three JPOs in the capital, Addis displaced, with more than 2 million living as
Ababa, and four sub-offices (Bule Hora, Jijiga, refugees in the region. Insecurity, lack of baNekmente and Semera).
sic services and unresolved land property issues prevented people from returning home.
Somalia

The desert locust upsurge, extensive flooding and the pandemic exacerbated the humanitarian situation, which left more than
5 million Somalis in need of humanitarian
assistance. Measures to control the spread of
COVID-19 further constrained humanitarian
access to people in need.

Food insecurity worsened — some communities faced catastrophic needs, and more
children were acutely malnourished than at
any time in the past three years. OCHA raised
the alarm about the risk of famine based on
the early warning information, including
with the Security Council in September.

OCHA established an innovative deep-field
coordination mechanism with partners in
more than 20 remote areas with a limited
presence of humanitarian partners. These
efforts meant that the humanitarian assistance delivered to more than 6 million
people by more than 200 partners prevented many people falling into deeper need.
However, increased violence against aid
workers stopped hundreds of thousands of
vulnerable people from predictably accessing aid. OCHA engaged with the UN Mission
OCHA managed the Somalia Humanitarian in South Sudan and organizations working
Fund, which allocated just over $36 million on humanitarian protection to support the
to 73 projects and 47 partners. CERF pro- response in conflict-affected areas.
vided approximately $7 million for urgent
support to flood-affected people and $15 OCHA facilitated the disbursal of more than
million for anticipatory action to mitigate $94 million from CERF and the South Suthe impact of the pandemic, desert locusts dan Humanitarian Fund (SSHF). National
NGOs received 34 per cent of SSHF funding
and increased flooding.

OCHA coordinated various responses in
collaboration with WHO and other stakeholders. This included the response to the
pandemic; to flooding that affected almost 1.6 million people; to the protracted
displacement of 2.6 million people; and
to Cyclone Gati in Puntland State. Overall,
OCHA coordinated 363 partners, who provided humanitarian assistance to more than
2 million people.

25

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

In January 2020,
OCHA South
Sudan and
partners assessed
humanitarian needs
in Wau and Jur River
counties, Western
Bahr el Ghazal, and
monitored projects
supported by
the South Sudan
Humanitarian
Fund. Credit: OCHA/
Anthony Burke

as part of OCHA’s commitment to support
local organizations.

unprecedented flooding and hosting refugees, including a new influx from Ethiopia.

OCHA’s work in South Sudan was supported
by 98 staff (56 national, 42 international) in
Juba and in seven sub-offices (Bentiu, Bor,
Malakal, Torit, Wau, Yambio and Yei).

To support the response, OCHA strengthened its coordination efforts, including expanding its presence in eastern Sudan, and
it supported health partners in coordinating
the pandemic response. In December, OCHA
engaged with the United Nations African
Union Mission in Darfur (UNAMID) and
organizations that work on humanitarian
protection to support protection activities
in the areas from which UNAMID would be
withdrawing.

Sudan

Despite progress on the political transition
and peace process, humanitarian needs
continued to grow. They were driven by
an economic crisis and exacerbated by the
pandemic, disease outbreaks, protracted internal displacement, intercommunal conflict,

26

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA sought to strengthen accountability
to affected people (AAP), including through
establishing a dedicated AAP Working Group.
OCHA also maintained a critical role in
expanding humanitarian access. This included organizing inter-agency assessment
missions to previously inaccessible areas in
Darfur’s Jebel Marra, where over 600,000
people received assistance for the first time
in a decade, and helping to increase assistance in areas of South Kordofan and Blue
Nile that are outside Government control.
Nearly 900,000

With 92 staff (69 national, 23 international), as well as several surge deployments,
OCHA supported the response through a
main office in Khartoum and sub-offices
in Abyei, Blue Nile, Central Darfur, Kassala,
North Darfur, South Darfur, South Kordofan
and West Darfur.

people were
affected in Sudan’s
worst-ever floods.
Thousands of
those people lost
everything.
Credit: OCHA/Fayez
Abu Bakr

27

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Yagana Bulama,

“My husband is away from the camp all day, looking for work to

20, is from Mafa,

bring some meagre income. I stay alone with the children and feel

Nigeria. She now
lives in Custom

safer in the camp than anywhere else. I am afraid of the coronavirus.

House camp,

The only way for us to protect each other and ourselves is if everyone

one of the many

stays in this room, because the camp is too congested.”

overcrowded IDP
camps in Maiduguri,
Nigeria. Credit:
OCHA/Eve Sabbagh

28

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

bility and the pandemic led to a 30 per cent
increase in the number of people in need in
Regional Office for West and Central
the first half of 2020, from 2.2 million to 2.9
Africa (ROWCA)
million. And for the first time in 10 years,
West and Central Africa registered close to a the country saw the re-emergence of critical
third of global humanitarian needs in 2020. food insecurity conditions (IPC Phase 4) in
Climate shocks, extreme poverty, insecurity two provinces of the Sahel region.
and conflict led to high levels of vulnerability.
The pandemic hit some of the world’s weak- Between January and December, there was a
est health systems and the socioeconomic 75 per cent increase in internal displacement
impact created new needs.
(from 614,000 IDPs to more than 1 million).
OCHA-supported efforts to increase humanIn conflict-affected regions in the Sahel and itarian funding and the response capacity
Central Africa, civilians faced an acute pro- enabled humanitarian partners to reach
tection crisis. Across the region, almost 13 more than 2.4 million people in 2020, twice
million people had to flee their homes and the number of people reached in 2019.
more than 40 million people faced severe
food insecurity.
OCHA gradually increased its capacity to
support collective priorities for humanitariROWCA supported regional platforms on the an coordination at the national and regional
pandemic response and the inclusion of non- levels, securing dedicated capacity to proHRP countries in the COVID-19 GHRP, and it vide leadership on humanitarian civil-milhelped strengthen emergency preparedness itary coordination, community engagement,
in coastal countries.
AAP, IM and analysis, and protection from
sexual exploitation and abuse (PSEA).
ROWCA adapted its surge strategy and
support tools in 2020, prioritizing remote The OCHA office, established in July 2019,
support to the region’s country offices and comprised 14 staff (9 national, 5 internationRC offices. ROWCA staff deployed for 584 al) based in Dori, Kaya and Ouagadougou.
days to Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, CAR,
Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, DRC, Guinea and the
Republic of Congo.
Cameroon
In 2020, Cameroon continued to be affected
ROWCA was pivotal in the success of the by displacement due to continuous violence
Senior Officials Meeting and Ministerial in the Lake Chad basin and the north-west
Round Table on the Central Sahel. OCHA, the and south-west regions, and the presence
Governments of the subregion (Burkina Faso, of over 290,000 refugees from CAR in the
Mali and Niger), donors and humanitari- eastern regions. More refugees had arrived
an partners co-organized the event, which by the year’s end due to violence and inseraised $1.7 billion from 24 donor countries curity during the elections in CAR.
and partners.
In early 2020 almost 4 million people needed
humanitarian assistance, but that number
Burkina Faso
increased to more than 6 million due to the
Even before the pandemic began, 2020 was pandemic’s impact.
on track to be the most difficult year of the
past decade for Burkina Faso. A succession OCHA Cameroon supported the in-country
of shocks linked to conflict and insecurity humanitarian system, which comprised up
had driven more than 1 million people from to 172 entities, including 9 UN agencies, 28
their homes since early 2019. Climate variaWEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA

29

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Children from
Koukouma village

international NGOs, 111 national NGOs and
the donor community.

ing almost 2 million people living in a critical situation.

In the north-west and south-west, OCHA
continued to support humanitarian partners
in their Government interactions, acting as
a focal point for relations at the local level
and with the Government-led Humanitarian
Coordination Centres. This allowed for a
coordinated, principled response and improved access, and established civil-military
coordination working groups in the northwest and south-west.

OCHA provided strategic coordination to
more than 180 partners operating in an
extremely volatile context – 424 incidents
affected humanitarian workers compared
to 206 incidents in 2019, representing a 39
per cent increase. 2020 became the most
dangerous year for humanitarian operations
at the global level for humanitarian workers.

in Cameroon’s Far
North region travel
by canoe to a site
that serves as a
temporary school.
Flooding destroyed
their original school.
Credit: OCHA/
Bibiane Marie
Mouangue

Under OCHA’s leadership, the humanitarian
community interviewed an unprecedented
To strengthen the Government’s capacity to number of households (more than 16,000 –
respond to the pandemic, OCHA recruited twice as many as in 2019) for a multisector
and seconded 10 national UNVs, including needs-assessment survey. This enabled betsix epidemiologists, two logisticians, one ter targeting of aid assistance to people in
IMO and one public information officer.
need across the country, with a particular focus on the areas most affected by conflict and
With 34 staff (22 national, 12 international), on vulnerable groups, which improved AAP.
OCHA maintained a robust field presence
with a sub-office in Maroua, a temporary Three additional civil-military coordinaoffice in Kousseri (Far North), and sub-of- tion cells were set up, and OCHA mobilized
fices in Bamenda (north-west) and Buea and coordinated the deployment of a UN
(south-west).
Humanitarian Air Service helicopter to 25
hard-to-reach localities, where rapid assessment teams were deployed and life-saving
Central African Republic
cargo transported.
The humanitarian crisis in CAR deteriorated
in 2020. As well as the pandemic’s impact, OCHA developed an internal tool for trackthe conflict dynamics around the national ing allegations of SEA. It also organized an
elections compounded the humanitarian IASC support mission to CAR on PSEA and
situation, displacing over 300,000 people. supported training on PSEA issues for 74
More than half of the country’s population organizations.
needed humanitarian assistance, includ-

30

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA CAR had 89 staff (64 national, 25 international) and 7 CBPFs staff (4 national,
3 international), with a 50 per cent gender
parity on international and UNV posts.
OCHA was present in 12 locations: Bangui,
four sub-offices (Bambari, Bangassou, Bouar
and Kaga Bandoro) and seven temporary
offices (Alindao, Batangafo, Berberati, Birao,
Bocaranga, Bria and Paoua).
Chad

The number of people who needed urgent
life-saving aid rose steadily in 2020, with
more internal displacements, flooding and
pandemic-related effects.
OCHA coordinated the development of the
HRP. Initially it aimed to assist 3 million of
5.3 million people in need, but that number
increased to 3.8 million in July to include
needs related to the pandemic, food insecurity and new displacements.
Insecurity in Lac Province prompted new
waves of internal displacements. By year
end, there were 336,124 IDPs, an increase
of 92.6 per cent compared to 2019. In light
of the increased access challenges, particularly in hard-to-reach areas mainly in Lac

Province, OCHA reviewed and revitalized
the civil-military coordination forum with
relevant partners on the ground.
OCHA planned and facilitated the first HCT
retreat for some years. Held in person in
February 2020, the retreat enabled a critical
review of key issues and processes, including
relations with the Government, revisions
to the humanitarian coordination structure, enhancing emergency preparedness
and response, validating updated advocacy
strategies (including on protection) and revising the strategic focus for 2021 for work
on the humanitarian-development-peace
nexus. OCHA strengthened PSEA awareness
and initiatives within OCHA and with the
humanitarian community.
With 42 staff in place (27 national, 15 international), OCHA supported the Chad response
through offices in the capital, N’Djamena,
and in the east (Abeché), the west (Baga
Sola) and the south (Goré).
Democratic Republic of the Congo

The complex humanitarian crisis in DRC
worsened in 2020. The number of people
with protection and humanitarian needs

Flood-affected
people receive
assistance from
aid organizations
in N’Djamena,
Chad. The region
experienced record
rainfall in 2020.
Credit: OCHA/
Federica Gabellini

31

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

increased from 15.6 million at the start of
2020 to 19.6 million at the year’s end. DRC
hosted the largest number of food insecure
people (19.6 million) and the world’s second
largest IDP population (5.2 million).
Despite a difficult year exacerbated by the
pandemic, OCHA tailored its team composition and footprint to closely align with
emerging needs. Working with more than
300 humanitarian partners, OCHA coordinated assistance to more than 7.7 million
people. It supported the Ebola response by
coordinating multisectoral support, and it
played a leading role in improving the integration of gender and protection concerns
across the response, and in strengthening
engagement with affected communities,
notably in support of the PSEA strategy.

and seven temporary offices (Beni, Bunia,
Kindu, Mbandaka, Shabunda, Tshikapa and
Uvira). The office benefited from one surge
staff member deployed from OCHA ROWCA
and one IM standby partner to support the
pandemic response.
Mali

In 2020, the humanitarian situation in Mali
remained a serious concern, with the pandemic compounding a fragile situation that
deteriorated due to ongoing conflict and violence across the country.

Many people were forced to leave their
homes due to violent attacks on villages and military operations in Gao, Kidal,
Menaka, Mopti, Segou, Timbuktu and the
Mali-Burkina Faso border area. There were
The DRC Humanitarian Fund allocated $75 330,000 IDPs by the year’s end, which repremillion in 2020, making it the second larg- sented a drastic increase since October 2019
est CBPF worldwide. CERF provided $76.9 (199,385 IDPs).
million to support underfunded sectors, the
post-Ebola response and food security.
In 2020, the Protection Cluster registered
4,036 incidents affecting civilians comWith 157 staff (120 national, 37 international), pared to 1,800 in 2019, and floods affectOCHA supported the DRC response through ed more than 81,000 people compared to
offices in Kinshasa, four major sub-offic- 78,000 in 2019.
es (Bukavu, Goma, Kalemie and Kananga)

32

A group of displaced
women in their
shared field near
Bunia Ituri Province,
DRC. The shared
field project
included four groups
of 50 women. Credit:
OCHA/Ivo Brandau

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

The OCHA-supported coordination mechanism enabled humanitarian partners to
reach 2.6 million people of the 5.5 million
expected to be assisted by 31 December.
OCHA helped strengthen humanitarian
coordination in Bamako and in the field by
appointing a Deputy HC (DHC) to be stationed in Mopti. OCHA strengthened gender
and protection issues across the response
by working closely with clusters and the
DHC to set up an HCT task force focused on
gender and developing an IDP protection
strategy. Civil-military and access coordination mechanisms were in place to ensure
protection of the humanitarian space.
OCHA Mali had 51 staff (34 national, 17
international) in Bamako, Gao, Mopti
and Timbuktu.
Nigeria

Aissata Ongoiba, a
volunteer teacher,
with a pupil at
the camp for
displaced people
from Mondoro, Gao,
Mali. Credit: OCHA/
Michele Cattani

The humanitarian response in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe (BAY) States in north-east
Nigeria faced major challenges in 2020. This
was largely due to the pandemic, which increased the number of people in need to an
unprecedented 10.6 million from nearly 8
million in early 2020.

Escalating insecurity triggered mass displacements of civilians, and arbitrary road
closures impeded humanitarian access to
several locations, leaving hundreds of thousands of affected people without critical assistance and services. Civilians, including
aid workers, came under increased direct
and indirect attacks, including abductions
by non-State armed groups (NSAGs), particularly along major supply routes in the
BAY States. Despite these challenges, OCHA
mobilized and coordinated the humanitarian community, reaching about 5 million
people with multisectoral response across
the BAY States in 2020 (72 per cent of the
people in need).
OCHA had a leading role in advocating for
the centrality of protection, integrating
gender and protection concerns across the
response and strengthening engagement
with affected communities.
OCHA supported the HCT in engaging with
Borno State authorities on their plans to
close all camps in the State capital by May
2021 and return IDPs to locations that international aid workers cannot reach due to
insecurity. This engagement was ongoing
at the end of 2020.

33

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

With 72 staff (50 national, 22 international), OCHA supported the north-east Nigeria
response through a robust field presence,
with a head office in Abuja and sub-offices in the BAY States. Through missions, it
also supported deep-field coordination in
hard-to-reach areas hosting large numbers
of affected people.

Humanitarian access continued to be restricted in some areas due to armed entities’
activities. OCHA’s advocacy efforts led to the
creation in August of a high-level committee
on humanitarian access, co-chaired by the
Prime Minister and the HC, following the
release of the Government’s note verbale
requiring armed escorts for international
organizations’ movements in certain localities. Through the civil-military coordination
Niger
mechanism, OCHA facilitated access to 173
The situation in Niger remained precarious, humanitarian organizations, including 12
and its people continued to bear the brunt of UN agencies, 154 NGOs and 7 Red Cross
climate change, chronic food and nutrition organizations.
insecurity, conflicts and epidemics, includWith 49 staff (37 national, 12 international),
ing COVID-19.
OCHA supported the humanitarian response
OCHA coordinated the development of the through offices in the capital, Niamey;
2020 HRP and its review, which enabled the sub-offices in Diffa, Maradi, Tahoua and
increased number of people in need (from Tillabéri; and a temporary office in Ouallam
2.9 million in January to 3.7 million in July) (Tillabéri region).
to reflect additional needs.
The number of IDPs almost doubled in 2020,
reaching 298,000. Some 2 million people
became severely food insecure — an increase
of over 65 per cent compared to 2019 — and
floods affected over 632,000 people.

The UN RC/HC in
Nigeria, Edward
Kallon (right),
met with farmers
and villagers in
Zabarmari rural
community in Borno
State, where several
civilians were
killed in a violent
NSAG attack on 28
November 2020.
Credit: OCHA/Eve
Sabbagh

34

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

IDP families in
Dand, Afghanistan.
They are receiving
assistance
including food,
water and medicine
from the UN and
humanitarian
partners. Credit:
OCHA/Fariba
Housaini

35

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

The Acting Assistant
Secretary-General
for Humanitarian
Affairs and Deputy
Emergency Relief
Coordinator, Ramesh
Rajasingham, with
IDPs in Dand,
Afghanistan.
Conflict displaced
these people
from southern
Afghanistan in
October 2020.
Credit: OCHA/Fariba
Housaini

At the regional level, ROAP maintained a
leadership role in pandemic response, inRegional Office for Asia and the
cluding by establishing and chairing the
Pacific (ROAP)
regional COVID-19 Working Group, under
Humanitarian needs and vulnerabilities the IASC Regional Network, and supporting
grew across Asia and the Pacific in 2020, multiple sub-working groups.
mainly due to the pandemic. The need to
maintain response readiness and support Despite pandemic-related travel restrictions,
local and national humanitarian action ROAP deployed 11 staff on 30 surge missions
remained critical, as Asia-Pacific was the for 357 days in Afghanistan, Bangladesh,
world’s most disaster-prone region and Myanmar, Pakistan, the Philippines, South
home to 65 per cent of all people affected Sudan and Turkey (for Syria). Twenty-one
by disasters globally.
ROAP staff members remotely provided over
1,500 staff days of support in 21 countries
Disasters affected 63 million people in 2020, including Cambodia, Fiji, the Philippines,
with nearly 5,700 fatalities. Asia-Pacific Vanuatu and Viet Nam, and to the COVID-19
endured several protracted crises, with 3.2 emergency at country and regional levels.
million refugees across the region and the
world’s largest refugee settlement in Cox’s ROAP had 22 staff in Bangkok (7 national, 15
international) and 6 staff based in HATs in
Bazar, Bangladesh.
Indonesia and Japan. ROAP provided dedROAP supported humanitarian partners icated support to the RC and the UNCT in
to develop coordinated response plans in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
28 countries in Asia-Pacific in 2020. These
plans requested almost $4 billion to meet the
needs of 97 million people. ROAP also pro- Afghanistan
vided technical support to country teams in Recurrent natural disasters, chronic poverty,
areas such as field coordination, IM, public the pandemic and 40 years of war continued
information, civil-military coordination and to create deadly conditions for people in Afcommunication with affected communities. ghanistan. Peace talks commenced in 2020,
creating hopes for a conflict resolution, but
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

36

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

they did not lead to an improved security
environment. OCHA coordinated 165 humanitarian partners to deliver assistance
to almost 12 million people in Afghanistan’s
401 districts. By the year’s end, 18.4 million
people, almost half the population, needed
humanitarian assistance.
Following the 2019 Peer-2-Peer mission
recommendations, OCHA continued to facilitate enhancements to the response. This
included implementing a Mutual Accountability Framework between Kabul and the
field; developing a Data Accountability Protocol; revising the HCT Protection Strategy;
improving the IDP Standard Operating Procedures agreed with the Government in 2019;
scaling up cash capacity and safe cash use;
increasing the focus on AAP and PSEA; and
rolling out the Joint Operating Procedures
through the Humanitarian Access Group.
In December, OCHA’s Acting Assistant Secretary-General and Deputy Emergency Relief
Coordinator, Ramesh Rajasingham, visited
Afghanistan to raise awareness of the crisis and strengthen Government support of
humanitarian action by the UN and NGOs.
CERF and the OCHA-managed Afghanistan
Humanitarian Fund allocated a combined
$104.9 million to 54 partners targeting 5.5
million people.

and the pandemic. The increased need for
coordination and response support deferred the planned transition of the OCHA
country office into a HAT from early 2020 to
January 2021.
In 2020, OCHA supported the Government
and the humanitarian community on several international initiatives to address the
consequences of the pandemic and other
humanitarian needs, including the development of the Pakistan HRP for COVID-19.
The plan, which targeted 5.6 million people, required $146 million and received 61
per cent funding. Following the decision
of the IASC Emergency Directors Group in
September 2020 to include Pakistan in the
2021 GHO due to increased needs, OCHA
facilitated the country team in developing
needs and response plans in collaboration
with the Government.
CERF and the Pakistan Humanitarian Pooled
Fund (PHPF) disbursed a combined $22
million to aid 1.3 million people. The PHPF,
which was scheduled to close in 2020, was
extended into 2021 following a record-high
performance with $10 million in disbursements, 70 per cent of which was channelled
to national NGOs.

OCHA Pakistan had 21 staff (18 national, 1
international, 2 consultants) based in Islamabad, with sub-offices in Balochistan,
With 93 staff (72 national, 21 internation- Peshawar, Punjab and Sindh.
al), 1 JPO and 1 SBP, OCHA Afghanistan
operated through its Kabul country office,
with sub-offices in Hirat, Jalalabad, Kabul, Myanmar
Kandahar, Kunduz and Mazar-e-Sharif; and Myanmar continued to grapple with deeply
antenna offices in Faizabad and Maimana. rooted humanitarian challenges, with 1 million people in need of humanitarian assistance by the year’s end, including more than
Pakistan
336,000 displaced people. Conflict continued
With the deactivation of clusters at the end to be an acute driver of displacement and
of 2019, humanitarian operations in Paki- humanitarian need in northern Shan State
stan focused on emergency preparedness in but also in Rakhine and southern Chin, with
2020. However, there was a re-engagement intense, frequent fighting during the first
on response efforts due to several extreme half of the year. Severe movement restricweather events, a desert locust infestation

37

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

tions remained for an estimated 600,000
Rohingya in Rakhine State.

Gustavo Gonzalez,
the UN RC/HC in the
Philippines (second
from left), listens
to Tiwi Municipality
Mayor Jaime
Villanueva (right) on
8 November 2020
during a visit to
Albay Province, the
Philippines, a week
after it was battered
by Super Typhoon
Goni. Credit: OCHA/
Martin San Diego

38

(covering Kachin State) and Sittwe (covering
Rakhine and Chin States); and a liaison unit
in Nay Pyi Taw.

The pandemic’s impact further complicated
the lives of people in humanitarian settings.
Flooding remained a risk during the mon- Philippines
soon season, and OCHA supported Govern- The Philippines remained one of the world’s
most natural-hazard-prone countries, with
ment-led response efforts.
an average of 25 typhoons per year, 21 active
OCHA coordination was critical in respond- volcanos and regular earthquake threats. In
ing to displaced communities’ needs. Hu- 2020, areas with extreme poverty and instamanitarian access remained challenging and bility remained in Mindanao, combined with
central to OCHA’s work. It continued to ad- the continued activity of extremist NSAGs.
vocate with State- and Union-level officials Conflict-induced displacement in Mindanao
for access to all those in need, and as dis- was typically protracted and repetitive,
placement escalated it supported the rapid pointing to persistent and recurring chalscale-up of a robust multi-cluster response. lenges around housing, land and property
rights. According to the Protection Cluster,
The Myanmar Humanitarian Fund support- over 270,000 people remained displaced in
ed 41 projects with more than $16 million, Mindanao at the year’s end due to conflicts
which helped 803,400 people. More than or natural disasters.
40 per cent of the funding was allocated to
national partners, which benefited mostly To improve response readiness ahead of the
women and girls across the country.
2020 typhoon season, OCHA worked with
humanitarian partners to review operational
With 56 staff (45 national, 11 internation- plans and HCT protocols, taking into acal), OCHA supported the Government and count the new context created by the panthe humanitarian community through its demic. These plans and protocols were put
main office in Yangon; sub-offices in Lashio to the test many times during the typhoon
(covering northern Shan State), Myitkyina season in the second half of the year.

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

In November, OCHA supported the HCT in
formulating and launching the Humanitarian Needs and Priorities Plan, calling for $52.6
million for 280,000 people affected by Super
Typhoon Goni and Typhoon Vamco. CERF
allocated $3.1 million, which allowed the
HCT to kick-start response activities and
catalysed funding from other donors.

coordinating emergency response, including
for Tropical Cyclone Harold in April 2020,
operational readiness (preparedness), and
strategic and operational partnerships with
national, regional and international entities.

Office of the Pacific (OoP)

As OoP was unable to physically deploy
staff to emergencies due to the pandemic,
it provided dedicated coordination support
remotely following the impact of Tropical
Cyclone Harold in April. OoP’s efforts were
augmented by support from OCHA ROAP.

OoP continued to support national disaster management offices in coordination, IM,
preparedness and response. OCHA served
With 17 staff (15 national, 2 international) as the secretariat for the Pacific Humaniand a presence in Manila and Cotabato City tarian Team (PHT), which includes the PHT
in Mindanao, OCHA was well positioned Principals, chaired by two RCs, and the PHT
to provide humanitarian coordination, IM, inter-cluster coordination forum, chaired
access, communication and donor liai- by OCHA. The PHT was the main vehicle
son services.
for international humanitarian partners to
respond collectively to disasters.
From a health perspective, the pandemic
was largely kept under control in the Pacific. However, the socioeconomic impact
was severe and wide ranging, as countries
in the region imposed lockdowns, states of
emergency and travel restrictions, which increased overall vulnerability to new shocks.

At the end of 2020, OoP comprised six staff
(four national, two international); one inOCHA OoP adjusted due to the pandemic and ternational UNV and two national UNVs in
provided mainly remote support to five pri- Suva, Fiji; and one international and one
ority countries: Fiji, Samoa, Solomon Islands, national staff in Apia, Samoa.
Tonga and Vanuatu. Its support focused on

Reconstruction
after Cyclone Harold
battered Vanuatu in
April 2020. Credit:
OCHA/Chris Bartlett

39

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

An aerial view of
the flooding and
devastation left
by Hurricane Eta
in Campur, Alta
Verapaz, Guatemala.
Credit: OCHA/Luis
Echeverria

40

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

While downsizing the HAT in Bolivia to a
regional roving presence, ROLAC opened
Regional Office for Latin America and the
a HAT in Barbados, thereby strengthening
Caribbean (ROLAC)
partnerships and preparedness activities
In 2020, the pandemic and pre-existing so- in the Caribbean.
cial, economic and humanitarian vulnerabilities were compounded by the most active ROLAC had 39 staff (27 national, 12 internahurricane season in recorded history, result- tional), including 13 staff based in RC offices
ing in unprecedented humanitarian needs in Barbados, Bolivia, Ecuador, El Salvador,
across the region. More than 41.8 million Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and Peru.
people were targeted for humanitarian assistance. By year end, the region’s cumulative
COVID-19 caseload accounted for more than Deployments to hurricanea fifth of the known global tally, despite the
region accounting for under a tenth of the hit Central America
world’s population.
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

The collective response to humanitarian needs during 2020 pushed financing
requirements past $4 billion, an amount
nearly four times the support required for
2019 and more than six times the support
required for 2018.

Following the landfall of Hurricanes Eta and
Iota in November 2020, devastating floods
hit vast parts of Central America. An estimated 9.2 million people (including 3.5 million
children) were affected by heavy rainfall and
life-threatening flash floods and landslides
in Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama.

Leticia embraces
her father, Gaspar
Cal, in front of their
home in the buried
village of Queja, Alta
Verapaz, Guatemala.
Their home was
damaged by a
mudslide caused by
heavy rains during
Hurricane Eta.
Credit: OCHA/Luis
Echeverria

ROLAC strengthened emergency preparedness in the region, coordinated the response to Hurricanes Eta and Iota in Central
America, which included the deployment
of three United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination (UNDAC) missions,
and improved coordination with regional
stakeholders, including Member States, UN
agencies and NGOs. It also collaborated with
partners across LAC to boost the visibility of humanitarian situations in countries
without an HRP, including migration, sexual
and gender-based violence (SGBV) and food
insecurity, all affected by the pandemic. A
key milestone was ROLAC’s development
of an IM tool that tracks the operational
presence and activities of humanitarian
partners in LAC.
ROLAC staff deployed to 14 countries for 47
missions (19 surge, 12 internal, 9 technical
support, 7 preparedness), including 319 days
of surge deployment (184 in Honduras, 107
in Guatemala, 28 in Argentina).

Following requests from the Governments
of Guatemala and Honduras, UNDAC teams
deployed to support the flood response, which
was led by the national and local disaster
management authorities in areas such as
coordination, assessments, IM and environ-

41

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

ment. The teams received crucial logistics and
administrative support from operational support partners including the Americas Support
Team and Atlas Logistique, and analytical and
remote support from MapAction, the Pacific
Disaster Center, and the Operational Satellite
Applications Programme of the UN Institute
for Training and Research (UNOSAT).

Venezuela

The humanitarian situation in Venezuela
was the result of seven consecutive years of
economic contraction, periods of hyperinflation, political polarization and institutional challenges. The pandemic deepened
the needs of more than 7 million people
due to the impact on essential services
such as health care, water, gas and electricity. The food insecurity situation was
also aggravated.
Between January and November, OCHA
coordinated assistance to more than 4.5
million people across the country, mostly
to provide health, water, sanitation, hygiene,
protection and education services. The
HCT’s endorsement of an access strategy
in September was an important milestone

John Carvajal and
his family returned
to Venezuela after
he lost his job
as a mechanic
in Colombia. The
family live in dire
conditions in
Tachira State. Aid
organizations are
providing returnees
with humanitarian
support. Credit:
OCHA/Gema Cortes

42

in the efforts to expand and maintain humanitarian operational space.
OCHA played a leading role in integrating
cross-cutting issues in the response, such
as gender and protection, and in strengthening AAP and PSEA. The HCT adopted the
Collective AAP Framework and the protocol that defines procedures for submitting
SEA complaints.
The Venezuela Humanitarian Fund was established in September, and CERF provided
$4.3 million to the pandemic response.
In 2020, OCHA consolidated its operational
and analytical capacity and strengthened its
presence in the country. OCHA had 24 staff
members in Caracas and 29 in the field in
18 of 24 states.
Colombia

Multiple factors, including the pandemic,
converged to aggravate the humanitarian
situation in 2020 and stretch national response capacities in Colombia. Humanitarian needs worsened, generated by armed
conflict, natural disasters and mixed popula-

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

tion movements from Venezuela. Indigenous
communities were particularly affected.
Nationally, one in two people suffered from
food insecurity, including 3.5 million people who were severely food insecure. The
security situation deteriorated as NSAGs
took advantage of the pandemic to pursue
territorial expansion, leading to a fourth
successive year-on-year increase in violence.
Eighty-nine massacres were reported, often
leading to mass displacements. Increasing
cases of forced confinement and mobility
restrictions imposed by armed groups were
also reported.
Natural disasters affected 600,000 people,
which is double the number of people affected in 2019.
In response, OCHA and WHO led the development of the COVID-19 response plan.
OCHA also monitored mass displacements
and confinements across the country and
coordinated response efforts, including in
areas where humanitarian workers had

not been present, such as the Amazonas
department and the islands of San Andres
and Providencia.
With OCHA’s support, the HCT scaled up
its response and reached 1.6 million people
in 2020, despite the HRP being only 12.8 per
cent funded. The $5 million CERF allocation
was critical and prioritized heavily affected
regions where the State’s capacities were low.
Haiti

In 2020, Haiti continued to suffer recurring
sociopolitical tensions and a deteriorating
economic situation, compounded by the
pandemic. An upsurge in gang violence
displaced hundreds of families, mainly in
Port-au-Prince, and Tropical Storm Laura
caused flooding in several departments in
August, impacting thousands of people.
Food insecurity, health, education, and access to water and protection were the most
affected sectors due to unfavourable climatic,
economic and political conditions and pandemic-related access constraints.

Humanitarian
aid provided by
the Connecting
Business initiative
to people affected
by Cyclone Harold
in Vanuatu. Credit:
OCHA/Chris Bartlett

43

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA’s role in ensuring effective humanitarian coordination among all organizations at the strategic and operational levels
increased due to the pandemic. OCHA was
crucial in supporting the coordination of
preparedness and response efforts led by
the Ministry of Health and WHO.
OCHA supported the revision of the HCT
Terms of Reference and composition to
strengthen the membership of NGOs, including those working on gender and disability issues. It also facilitated three CERF
allocations in 2020, including a special allocation to NGOs for the pandemic response in
collaboration with IOM. With its total contribution of $19.2 million, CERF remained
the third largest donor to the 2020 HRP.
OCHA operated from Port-au-Prince with
several field visits. At the year’s end, the
office comprised 14 staff (11 national, 3
international).

Businesses partner
to strengthen
humanitarian responses
The Connecting Business initiative (CBi), supported by OCHA and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), is a multi-stakeholder initiative that transforms the way
business networks engage before, during and
after humanitarian crises. It focuses on ways
to create more resilient communities, increase
local capacity and alleviate human suffering.
CBi supported 17 private sector networks in
2020, of which 11 are official CBi member
networks: Côte d’Ivoire, Fiji, Haiti, Kenya, Madagascar, Mexico, Pacific (regional), Philippines,
Sri Lanka, Turkey and Vanuatu.
CBi worked with four prospective networks
in the Caribbean, Indonesia, Viet Nam and
Yemen, and it provided support to Ecuador and
Lebanon. In 2020, all networks responded to

44

COVID-19 and 10 also responded to 21 crises,
ranging from flooding, earthquakes, tropical
storms and volcanic eruptions, to fire, conflicts
and displacement.
The local member networks demonstrated
their value as first responders and stakeholders in crisis management while working
closely with Governments and the humanitarian community. As local response mechanisms,
they were essential in situations such as
pandemic-related border restrictions.
For example, Vanuatu was the first country to
respond to a natural disaster (Tropical Cyclone
Harold) while its borders were closed. The CBi
local network, the Vanuatu Business Resilience Council (VBRC), provided a coordination
mechanism for the private sector to engage
with the Government and partners to address
the double emergencies of the pandemic and
a tropical cyclone in April 2020.
This was critical, as many of the usual humanitarian responders were not present in the
country and unable to enter due to COVID-19
restrictions. VBRC undertook detailed technical damage assessments in 14 of the worsthit villages on West Coast Santo. Working with
private sector partners, and in collaboration
with NGOs and the UN and in support of the
Government, VBRC helped supply more than
1,000 remote coastal households with 35 tons
of food and non-food items.
For more information on CBi, visit: connectingbusiness.org

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

EUROPE
Ukraine

The pandemic exacerbated humanitarian
needs caused by almost seven years of armed
conflict in eastern Ukraine, leaving some 3.4
million people in need of assistance. Pandemic-related restrictions were imposed on
the movement of people across the “contact line,” causing a 97 per cent drop in the
number of people crossing. The closure of
the crossing points prevented most people
from reaching administrative and medical
services or accessing pensions and cash in
Government-controlled areas (GCA).
The ceasefire that came into effect in July
2020 led to a 14 per cent reduction in civilian
casualties, but no political solution to the
conflict is apparent.
Humanitarian access remained a significant
challenge in the non-Government-controlled areas (NGCA). OCHA continued to
advocate for civilians’ increased freedom
of movement during the extended closures
caused by pandemic-related restrictions.
OCHA also advanced many key protection
issues with the Government, such as supporting digitalization via phone apps to allow IDPs to virtually verify their residency
despite movement restrictions.

Humanitarian
Partnerships Week
The sixth Humanitarian Networks and Partnerships Week (HNPW) was held in Geneva,
Switzerland, from 3 to 7 February 2020.
HNPW is the flagship event of the Leading
Edge Programme, a year-round collaborative
platform for humanitarian networks and
partnerships that aims to develop sustainable
solutions to recurring cross-cutting issues in
emergency preparedness and response.
Organized by OCHA and hosted by the Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation,
HNPW was attended by about 2,300 participants from 100 Member States and some 450
organizations including the Red Cross and Red
Crescent Movement, the private sector and
academia. With 37 networks and partnerships
involved, more than 260 sessions took place
throughout the week.
More than 1,500 people participated in
Inter-Network Day during the event. It featured joint interactive sessions to collaborate
on specific challenges and ideas regarding
humanitarian coordination and localization,
anticipatory action, nexus environments, AAP
and the climate crisis.

OCHA continued to manage the Ukraine
Humanitarian Fund, allocating $10.8 million to 30 projects to support the pandemic
response and winterization. From January
to September, OCHA coordinated the efforts
of 56 humanitarian partners to assist more
than 1 million people on both sides of the
contact line.
OCHA Ukraine had 43 staff (35 national, 8
international), 1 national UNV and 1 SBP.
It maintained a national office in Kyiv and
sub-national offices in Kramatorsk and
Sievierodonetsk (GCA) and Donetsk and
Luhansk (NGCA).

45

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

The International
Search and Rescue
Advisory Group
deployed 11 urban
search-and-rescue
teams from 9
countries following
the port explosions
in Beirut, Lebanon,
in August 2020.

ROMENA supported the HPC in Iraq, Lebanon, Libya and Syria through dedicated supRegional Office for the Middle East and North
port to assessment and planning processes,
Africa (ROMENA)
including for the Beirut Port explosions.
Armed conflicts and political instability con- ROMENA, UN Women and CARE co-chaired
tinued to afflict the Middle East and North the regional Gender in Humanitarian Action
Africa (MENA) region. As the pandemic’s im- Working Group to provide regional advocacy,
pact aggravated the situation in the region, information sharing, best practice dissemROMENA staff provided extensive support ination and analysis support on gender-related issues across the region.
to various offices.
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

Credit: OCHA/Farid
Assaf

46

Eight staff members deployed for a total of
484 days to support emergency response
efforts in ongoing crises. This included 281
days for support to Syria, 88 days for Lebanon, 75 days for Pakistan and 19 for Libya.
Due to pandemic-related travel restrictions,
ROMENA provided extensive remote support to regional crises, including Lebanon
(330 days), Syria (270 days), Jordan (237
days), Iran (196 days), Iraq (128 days) and
Libya (109 days).

ROMENA introduced the ‘IASC Emergency
Response Preparedness (ERP) Approach in
COVID-19’ guidance in Algeria, Egypt, Iran
and Morocco. It also organized an ERP briefing for the Morocco UNCT and supported the
Egypt RC/UNCT on updating the ERP process. This included reviewing the rankings
of identified risks, minimum preparedness
actions and technical support on discussions on Iran.

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

In addition to dedicated IM country support
(surge and remote) to Iran, Lebanon, Libya,
Syria and Turkey, the IM Unit developed
tools and products to monitor pandemic-related regional travel and movement restrictions, and a regional dashboard to track the
pandemic situation in all MENA countries.

Agencies continued to face serious obstacles
in providing assistance. By November, donors and agencies agreed there was progress
on key priorities, including assessments,
project approvals and the start of a biometric registration pilot, but more was needed.

Throughout the year, OCHA maintained
ROMENA had 28 staff (20 national, 8 inter- strong levels of support for the aid operation, working with 203 humanitarian
national) in Amman and Cairo.
national and international partners and
facilitating coordination forums, including
Yemen
the Inter-Cluster Coordination Mechanism,
In 2020, Yemen remained the world’s worst the HCT, and working groups on access, IM
humanitarian crisis. In October, food secu- and public information. CERF allocated $65
rity data confirmed that 13.5 million people million and the Yemen Humanitarian Fund
faced acute food insecurity (IPC Phase 3 or $98.6 million to support the response.
higher). Famine-like conditions returned
for the first time in two years, with 16,500 By the year’s end, OCHA Yemen had 120 staff
people essentially starving.
(83 national, 37 international) across six
main hubs in Aden, Al Mukalla, Hudaydah,
Despite growing needs, donors cut funding Ibb, Sa’ada and Sana’a; two sub-hubs in Al
in 2020, which forced aid agencies to scale Mokha and Al Turba; and a support office
back more than 30 key programmes. As a in Amman, Jordan. A small Riyadh-based
result, the aid operation shrank from reach- team continued to oversee the humanitarian
ing nearly 14 million people per month in notification system.
January to just over 10.3 million people per
month by November.

Two-month-old
Abdullah is held by
nurse Fazal in Al
Sadaqah hospital,
Aden, Yemen, before
being weighed
and measured. He
suffers from severe
acute malnutrition
and is the youngest
of nine children.
Credit: OCHA/Giles
Clarke

47

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Regional Office for the Syria Crisis (ROSC)

The humanitarian crisis in Syria continued
to affect more than half the population, with
11.1 million people in need of assistance and
protection, including 9.3 million who were
food insecure. At least 6.7 million people
were internally displaced, many facing protracted displacement and being forced to
relocate multiple times. Despite a reduction
in active conflict in 2020, needs increased
throughout the year due to the combination
of economic decay, vanishing livelihoods
and the pandemic.

common needs analysis, a single response
plan and appeal, regular prioritization of
critical funding gaps, and a common approach to critical challenges facing the response, including PSEA.
ROSC had 31 staff (20 national, 11 international) based in Amman, Jordan.
Syria

Humanitarian organizations operating from
within Syria continued scaling up their response in 2020 to address rising needs. The
ROSC continued to provide support in poli- Damascus-based operation reached an avercy, planning, operational coordination and age of at least 3.9 million people each month,
administrative services to humanitarian or- including 3.4 million people who received
ganizations across the response. In support food, 1.4 million people who received nutriof the Regional HC for Syria, ROSC brought tion support and 3.4 million children who
together humanitarian organizations work- benefited from education assistance.
ing from within and outside Syria to develop
a shared analysis, common objectives and OCHA was pivotal in negotiating access to
a collective focus on results. ROSC focused people in need on behalf of the humanitarion enhancing its engagement and coordi- an community. It also coordinated targeted
nation with key regional stakeholders in assistance plans suited to the unique cirthe response, namely UN Regional Direc- cumstances of different parts of the country,
tors, international NGOs, Member States including for Al Hol camp in the north-east
and donors. It also supported regular stra- and Rukban in the south. Despite challengtegic and operational coordination forums, es posed by the pandemic, OCHA carried
including a Strategic Steering Group that out numerous inter-agency assessments
brings together national and internation- throughout the year, generating a clearer
al humanitarian organizations to provide picture of the differentiated needs of women,
overall direction to the operation. ROSC girls, boys and men. It also continued advomaintained a leadership role in ensuring a cating with all stakeholders for protection

Mahasen, a
psychosocial aid
worker with Maram
Foundation, with
children in the Atma
IDP camp in northwest Syria. Credit:
OCHA

48

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

and assistance for the most vulnerable peo- OCHA continued to coordinate the cross-borple where they are, based strictly on need. der response into north-west Syria from
Turkey. With different parts of Syria conOCHA allocated $66.1 million for humanitar- trolled by various parties to the conflict, the
ian programming through the Syria Human- United Nations cross-border response was
itarian Fund in 2020, including allocations to authorized to deliver aid to people in need
address new humanitarian needs generated by Security Council resolution 2165 (2014)
by the worsening socioeconomic situation. and subsequent resolutions.
OCHA supported the country team in risk
management and due diligence efforts to Despite challenges posed by renewed hosenhance transparency and contribute to tilities and operational uncertainty around
confidence-building related to the response. the extension of the authorization for United
Nations cross-border assistance in July, the
OCHA had 67 staff (51 national, 16 inter- OCHA-coordinated cross-border response
national) based in its office in Damascus, delivered life-saving aid to an average of
and three sub-offices in Aleppo, Homs 2.8 million people per month in north-west
and Qamishly.
Syria in 2020. The Syria Cross-Border Humanitarian Fund (SCHF) was OCHA’s largest
CBPF in 2020, supporting 204 projects with
Syria OCHA Operation in Turkey
allocations totalling $185 million. The SCHF
An estimated 2.8 million people in the north- funded part of the rehabilitation of the road
west required humanitarian assistance in between Bab al-Hawa and northern Aleppo
2020. Renewed military escalations dis- to mitigate the risk of interruptions to UN
placed almost a million people in the area trans-shipments due to poor road condiin late 2019 and early 2020. Despite a March tions, flooding or winter conditions.
ceasefire agreement, hostilities continued
to claim civilian lives throughout the year, OCHA had 30 staff (19 national, 11 internawhile explosive hazards and clashes be- tional) in Gaziantep, Turkey, with a liaison
tween armed groups heightened the secu- office in Ankara supporting close engagerity challenges facing civilians, including ment with Turkish authorities.
humanitarian workers.

A young girl at
the Khair Al-Sham
IDP camp in Idleb
Governorate, west
of Sarmada, Syria.
Credit: OCHA/
Mahmoud Al Basha

49

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Jordan

A decade since the Syria crisis began, over 1
million Syrians remain in Jordan, comprising
nearly 10 per cent of the population.

Iraq

The humanitarian landscape in 2020 was
characterized by a post-conflict environment witnessing slow returns and underaddressed stabilization, development and reIn 2020, OCHA helped ensure that the on- construction needs.
going humanitarian response in Jordan
continued to address long-standing and The most vulnerable people in Iraq conemerging needs. Within the UNHCR-led tinued to be those directly affected by the
refugee response and the Whole of Syria Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL)
structure, OCHA supported the RC/HC in and the military operations to defeat it from
meeting global humanitarian accounta- 2014 to 2017. Of the 6 million people disbilities. Priorities included strengthening placed during this period, approximately 1.3
humanitarian coordination structures and million remained internally displaced, most
advocacy, progressing humanitarian-devel- for more than three years.
opment collaboration, and bringing the humanitarian community together to address Four of five displaced people lived in out-ofthe scourge of SEA in the aid sector.
camp settings and faced complex barriers to
finding a durable solution. During 2020, the
The pandemic exacerbated hardships among Government of Iraq announced the closure
refugees and vulnerable Jordanians alike. of IDP camps by year end. This prompted
OCHA supported a contingency planning ex- thousands of people to rapidly return to their
ercise that analysed projected needs, includ- home districts or secondarily displace. By
ing in health, protection and livelihoods, and December, 28 camps were still open, 25 in
it encouraged a stronger interface between areas administered by the Kurdistan regional
humanitarian and development action. government, and not expected to close imOCHA also liaised and advocated with the minently. The pandemic compounded the
Government of Jordan, the Jordanian mili- existing humanitarian crisis. Humanitarian
tary, International Coalition Forces and UN organizations supported relevant Governpartners to support IDPs in the Rukban area, ment authorities and camp management
on the Syria-Jordan border. It also provided entities to prevent or limit virus transmissupport to the Jordan, Israel and Palestine sion in IDP camps.
project, an initiative to bolster disaster preDuring 2020, OCHA Iraq coordinated huparedness and response.
manitarian assistance to 1.4 million people,
The Jordan Humanitarian Fund (JHF) di- or 81 per cent of the 1.8 million people exrected funding to UN, NGO and Red Cross pected to receive support. The OCHA-manpartners for urgent priorities, allocating $8.3 aged Iraq Humanitarian Fund allocated
million to 29 projects in 2020. Following a $26.5 million through 24 contracting partdrop in funding in 2019, JHF reached its ners and 64 partners to implement humanannual $10 million target through focused itarian projects.
resource mobilization. JHF staff provided
remote and in-person surge to Syria, Turkey With 79 staff (51 national, 28 internationand Yemen, with mission support totalling al), OCHA maintained an agile and strategic
footprint in Iraq.
over eight months.
OCHA Jordan had 12 staff (8 national, 4 international) based in Amman.

50

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Siham Pekyan, a
store owner, was

“I want to thank the Lebanese people and all the people, whether

hurt in the Beirut

Europeans or Arabs, who stood by us. All the young and old people

Port explosions.
Credit: OCHA/Farid
Assaf

who helped us, all the students that came with food and brooms to
help us clean our streets and houses.”

51

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Lebanon

The Beirut Port explosions and the pandemic were two shocks that compounded
a crippling socioeconomic crisis affecting
Lebanese and non-Lebanese communities
across the country.
From March 2020, OCHA assisted the RC/HC
and HCT to ensure effective support to the
national pandemic response effort. In May,
the RC/HC a.i. and humanitarian partners
launched the Lebanon Emergency Appeal,
which aligned activities to help vulnerable
people absorb the pandemic’s direct and
indirect impacts. An updated appeal was
later incorporated into the GHRP.
On 4 August, the Beirut Port explosions flattened surrounding neighbourhoods, killing
hundreds of people and injuring thousands
more. Within hours, national and international search-and-rescue teams, an UNDAC
team and surge staff were dispatched. In
parallel, OCHA led a UN-coordinated Flash
Appeal to mobilize the necessary resources.
OCHA worked with the UN and partners in
subsequent months to ensure the emergency
response adapted to changing needs.

Support for Beirut
Following the Beirut Port explosions on 4 August 2020, a 19-member UNDAC team and 13
international Urban Search and Rescue (USAR)
teams deployed immediately following the
Lebanese Government’s request.
USAR teams fall under the International
Search and Rescue Advisory Group (INSARAG),
and the first team arrived 24 hours after
the explosions. The teams supported local
authorities with search-and-rescue activities,
assessing the structural damage and integrity
of affected buildings, and detecting hazardous materials.
The UNDAC team, fully integrated with the
OCHA country office and OCHA surge staff,
provided expertise and support to the HCT, the
Government and humanitarian partners, such
as the Lebanese Red Cross.
The response highlighted that joint preparedness efforts between Member States, humanitarian partners and response networks are
vital for enabling the international community
to respond quickly and effectively to requests
for assistance.

In 2020, the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund
launched four multisectoral allocations, Operationally, COVID-19 preparedness
measures helped in the swift deployment of
with a total allocation of $16.2 million.
Besides monitoring activities, OCHA also led
a Secondary Data Review exercise to assess
the humanitarian impact of the multifaceted
crisis, which found a severe deterioration
in the conditions of the most vulnerable
people. The findings continue to inform
strategic discussion and contingency planning exercises.
OCHA had 20 staff (14 national, 6 international) in its office in Beirut.

52

emergency response teams, including UNDAC
and INSARAG teams. The capacities of the
UNDAC team, operational support partners,
OCHA surge staff and the OCHA country office
were integrated instantly, which provided
critical support for the HC to assume a central
leadership role in the crisis.
An inter-agency Emergency Operations Cell
was also established immediately. It provided
a coordination platform for inter-sector coordination, assessments, humanitarian financing,
situational analysis, gender mainstreaming,
community engagement, liaison with local
response authorities and the military, environmental management and USAR. This was only
possible due to partners’ common knowledge
and capacities.

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

The pandemic environment highlighted the
need for dedicated capacity to ensure the
safety and security not only of responders, but
also of local communities.
Within the first three days, the Lebanon
Humanitarian Fund allocated $8.1 million for
multisectoral life-saving assistance. This was
complemented by an additional $6 million
CERF allocation on 7 August.

Occupied Palestinian Territory

A protracted protection crisis continued in
the Occupied Palestinian Territory (OPT),
leaving many Palestinians struggling to live
a life with dignity due to Israel’s occupation,
including the blockade on the Gaza Strip,
insufficient respect for international law,
continuing internal Palestinian divisions,
and recurrent escalations of hostilities between Israel and Palestinian armed groups.
Needs severely increased due to the pandemic and the Palestinian Authority’s worsening fiscal situation, and nearly half the
population of 5.2 million people needed
assistance. Vulnerable families struggled
to cope with poverty, food insecurity, unemployment and inadequate access to essential services (health care, water, sanitation
and education).

side more than 5.5 million items to prevent
and control infection. Following the Palestinian Authority’s freeze of coordination
with Israel from May to November, OCHA
supported the HC in establishing interim
measures to facilitate WFP’s movement of
humanitarian goods and WHO’s transfer of
patients from Gaza.
These activities were carried out by 56 staff
(46 national, 10 international) based in East
Jerusalem and sub-offices in Gaza, Hebron,
Nablus and Ramallah.
Libya

The year began in conflict, particularly in
and around Tripoli. Fighting had subsided
by June, a ceasefire was agreed in October
and reengagement in the political process
began in earnest.
As the conflict diminished, the pandemic’s
impact increased exponentially. It brought
the health system to the point of collapse,
and shortages of health workers, medical
supplies and personal protective equipment resulted in further closures of health
facilities and significant socioeconomic
repercussions.

Despite the resumption of oil production
due to the ceasefire, the economy dwindled.
This resulted in the official devaluation of
the Libyan dinar by some 70 per cent as the
year ended. The ceasefire allowed people
to start returning home, but returns were
inhibited due to the lack of basic services
The OCHA-managed Humanitarian Fund al- as a result of the conflict and widespread
located over $34 million to support life-sus- explosive hazard contamination. The containing activities, including through emer- ditions for migrants and refugees remained
gency food assistance, shelter rehabilitation precarious, with thousands arbitrarily deand the pandemic response.
tained in inhumane conditions and many
more attempting the Mediterranean Sea
OCHA supported the HC to mobilize an crossing, often at the cost of their lives.
immediate system-wide response to the
pandemic. Quick action was taken to save Despite insecurity and pandemic-related
lives and mitigate suffering, including restrictions, OCHA Libya maintained critithrough the delivery of over 100,000 tests cal staff capacity in the country throughout
and advanced laboratory equipment along- 2020 to continue to support humanitarian
Humanitarian partners faced significant
constraints due to record-low funding,
movement restrictions, political considerations and unsubstantiated claims that
delegitimize humanitarian action.

53

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Distribution of relief
supplies at UNHCR’s
Serraj Centre in
Tripoli, where more
than 170 refugees
and asylum seekers
received aid after
being released from
detention. Credit:
OCHA/Jennifer Bose
Ratka

operations. Working with about 54 humanitarian partners, OCHA coordinated assistance reaching over 463,000 people, more
than the initial target as the year began.

project successfully transitioned to a new
operating model, with the project now drawing
from a pool of highly respected senior humanitarians to lead the missions.

With 32 staff (18 national, 14 international), OCHA supported the Libya response by
maintaining a field-based presence through
its head office; coordination capacity for
the west in Tripoli; an expanded presence
in Benghazi in the east; and a national staff
member in Sebha in the south.

The first mission conducted under the new
operating model was requested by the HC
in Libya to help mount an evidence-based
humanitarian response and establish the
most appropriate humanitarian footprint in
the country. The mission was led by a former
HC, together with a senior group of UN and
NGO representatives of the IASC’s Emergency
Directors Group.

Peers provide
virtual support
The IASC’s Peer-2-Peer project is an independent and impartial senior inter-agency advisory
service that provides support through country
missions and learning leadership dialogues in
support of HCs and HCTs. It uses knowledge
gathered from missions to inform global policy discussions to address common humanitarian trends.
As humanitarian needs continue to increase in
scale and complexity, the project has continued to evolve to better support humanitarian
response in field operations. In 2020, the

54

The six-week mission was carried out virtually
due to pandemic-related travel restrictions. It
resulted in the development of a well-prioritized HCT Action Plan, with concrete steps to
address the most critical operational challenges. In addition, the project supported learning
on best practice in critical response areas.
This ranged from the humanitarian-development nexus to duty of care and supply chain
challenges during the pandemic response, to
PSEA by aid workers.

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Promoting gender equality and
the empowerment of women
and girls
The pandemic exacerbated the socioeconomic impact on displaced women and
girls in emergency settings. As a result, the
spotlight on the lack of gender equality and
the empowerment of women and girls in
the emergency response was even more
pronounced during 2020.
As such, OCHA mobilized a collective
response to emphasize the protection
and empowerment of women and girls
through the COVID-19 GHRP, and it supported UN Women’s gender-responsive
humanitarian response to the pandemic
programme and appeal.

A woman in Caracas,
Venezuela, reads
COVID-19 prevention
messages from
WHO on her phone.
Credit: OCHA/Gema
Cortes

In addition, the IASC Reference Group on
Gender and Humanitarian Action (cochaired by OCHA and Oxfam), together with
UN and international NGO partners, produced the Gender Alert on COVID-19 — a series of briefs that offered multilingual guidance to humanitarians on integrating gender
concerns during the pandemic response.
Gender and Humanitarian Action working
groups were established at regional and
country levels to support the pandemic response, including in Afghanistan and the
Middle East.

55

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

More specifically, OCHA stepped up advocacy for increased prioritization of GBV
responses in humanitarian settings. This
was in line with its commitments to the
Call to Action on Protection from GBV in
Emergencies, and with the commitments
made in Oslo in 2019 at the conference on
Ending Sexual and Gender-Based Violence in
Humanitarian Crises. This entailed ensuring
that humanitarian pooled funding increased
the prioritization of and funding for GBV
initiatives and the role of women-led organizations in the pandemic response. An
example of this prioritization is CERF’s
$25 million allocation to UN Women and
the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), 30 per
cent of which aimed to support women-led
organizations.

A survivor of sexual
violence holds a
flower to her face
in a camp for
displaced persons
in DRC. She was
attacked on her way
to fetch water, some
10 km away from
the camp. Many
survivors do not
speak up about their
experiences, fearing
reprisal and stigma.
NGO Transcultural
Psychosocial
Organization offers
psychological
support to help
survivors recover
from trauma. Credit:
OCHA/Alioune
Ndiyaye

56

initial provision of $5.5 million from the
overall envelope of $100 million had a catalytic effect: across 10 countries, almost
$22 million was allocated to projects that
contribute specifically to GBV prevention
and mitigation, an important strategy to
advance gender equality.
In addition, the Emergency Relief Coordinator (ERC)/Under-Secretary-General asked
all HCs to prioritize gender equality and
address GBV by ensuring ongoing robust
gender analysis; meaningful engagement
of women and women’s organizations in
humanitarian decision-making; increased
allocations of funding and other resources
to GBV and gender equality programming
and women-led organizations; and the
inclusion of GBV issues in coordinated humanitarian plans.

There has also been progress in developing
a more comprehensive overview of financial
requirements for GBV in the GHO, includ- OCHA also supported the deployments of
ing changes in the HPC tools to make GBV gender capacity advisers to assist HCTs
in 15 countries to integrate gender, and it
more visible.
promoted the use of important tools and
In 2020, for the first time, CERF earmarked guidance, including the Gender with Age
a portion of its Underfunded Emergencies Marker (GAM) — a tool for designing and
resources for GBV response activities. The monitoring humanitarian interventions. By

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

the year’s end, the GAM had been used in
1,400 humanitarian interventions to help
design more gender-responsive activities.
The Gender Handbook, the GBV Guidelines and the GBV Accountability Framework are some of the tools being promoted
throughout the HPC.

As part of reforms in 2020, the projects
strengthened their focus on field impact, the
sustainability of results and the prioritization of support to align with system-wide
response priorities. These reforms, the pandemic’s impact, and the projects’ roll-out in
the humanitarian community created an
uptick in demand that increased individWomen’s participation and leadership in ual deployments, from 29 in 2019 to more
decision-making are key to gender equali- than 50 in 2020.
ty, as confirmed by the findings of the first
Inter-agency Humanitarian Evaluation on GenCap deployed to 16 contexts, up from 14
Gender Equality and the Empowerment in 2019, while ProCap deployed to 20 conof Women and Girls, conducted in 2020. texts, up from 15 in 2019. Combined, the proIn partnership with UN Women and the jects supported 18 of 25 country operations
International Federation of Red Cross and with HRPs in 2020.
Red Crescent Societies, OCHA promoted
women’s leadership through a series of di- GenCap and ProCap work with humanitaralogues to amplify its commitments, and to ian operations through a road map process.
ensure women’s rights and empowerment In collaboration with field leadership, senior
are rooted at all levels of humanitarian plan- advisers establish baselines to help identify
ning, coordination and decision-making in collectively defined priority areas, activities,
crisis-affected countries. This builds on in- expected outcomes and responsible organiitiatives such as the Grand Bargain and the zations to ensure sustainability.
World Humanitarian Summit. The series
connected regional and global stakeholders The projects match senior advisers’ skills
with local women leaders in crisis-affected with field needs, working towards mileareas, increased their visibility and amplified stones that the operations set in their road
their voices in humanitarian action.
maps, with a maximum timeline of sustained ProCap and/or GenCap support for
two to three years.
Supporting protection & gender equality

OCHA manages the inter-agency Protection
Standby Capacity (ProCap) and Gender
Standby Capacity (GenCap) projects in a
long-standing partnership with the Norwegian Refugee Council. The projects aim
to strengthen leadership, programmes and
localization strategies on protection and
gender equality by providing direct support
to field operations. This is chiefly done by
deploying senior advisers who work closely
with RC/HCs, HCTs, and other coordination
mechanisms and stakeholders, including
national partners. The projects also support
global policy and advocacy around protection, gender equality and women’s empowerment in close collaboration with partners.

GenCap continued to support the roll-out
of the GAM, seeking to increase attention
to gender and age in humanitarian projects
and programmes. The GAM is now well established in more than 30 countries, up from
15 in 2019. As of 1 December 2020, more than
11,000 projects had applied the GAM globally.

57

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Information management, a
critical OCHA function
IM is key to OCHA’s work and mandate. In 2020, GIFT achievements included:
Partners have consistently lauded OCHA
for its IM function, both at headquarters •	 Crafting new, more nuanced job profiles for OCHA’s IMOs to better reflect
and in the field.
the breadth of their work. It also made
the profiles more appealing to a widDuring a crisis, timely, comprehensive and
er range of applicants, which will help
objective products, such as situation reimprove gender and diversity within the
ports, maps and data-driven dashboards,
IM community.
keep partners, donors and decision makers
informed on context, needs and progress, •	 Developing IM standards, especially in
and response gaps.
software management and procurement,
contacts management (by developing
The Information Management Branch (IMB)
ready-to-use templates for managing
supports OCHA’s field operations, helping
contacts in different crises, such as sudIMOs to consolidate, analyse and publish inden-onset disasters) and hosting innovaformation across the entire spectrum of hution (by creating Amazon Web Services
manitarian response to provide an overview
accounts for field offices who want to
of protracted and acute emergencies. IMB is
experiment and test in a safe digital space).
the steward of several humanitarian tools
•	 Mapping existing field practices around
and services including ReliefWeb, humanisituational awareness, analysis and aptarianresponse.info and Humanitarian Data
proaches in operational environments
Exchange. These tools and services help our
to improve understanding of each
partners make better-informed decisions
setting and anticipate for a more effecand ensure a more predictable approach to
tive response.
preparedness, early recovery and response.
IMB set up the Global Information Management Functional Team (GIFT), which enables staff from across functions to combine
their expertise to help enrich, improve and
strengthen IM practices across OCHA.

58

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA’s role in the Inter-Agency
Standing Committee
The IASC is the global humanitarian coordi- •	 GHRP: Just two weeks after WHO’s official
declaration of a global pandemic, the IASC
nation forum that brings together the Heads
mobilized its members and partners and
of UN, NGO, and Red Cross/Red Crescent
launched the first GHRP to address the
Movement entities. It is chaired by the Head
pandemic’s immediate humanitarian
of OCHA, the ERC.
consequences. This was carried out in
coordination with OCHA.
IASC Response to COVID-19

The IASC significantly scaled up its activity
in 2020 to coordinate system-wide efforts
to prepare for and respond to the pandemic, and to ensure the continued delivery of
life-saving humanitarian assistance and
protection. The following are highlights of
the IASC’s response:

Standing in
painted circles for
social distancing,
displaced Yemeni
men and women
wait to receive
aid at an IOM
Rapid Response
distribution centre
in Marib City. Credit:
OCHA/Giles Clarke

•	 Global logistics: Under WFP’s leadership,
the IASC staged one of the largest global
logistics operations to support Global
Common Services for the humanitarian
system, including passenger and cargo
services and medical evacuations. By the
end of 2020, WFP had provided air services to more than 28,000 humanitarian
passengers on behalf of 426 organizations
(including 45 per cent from NGOs and 45
per cent from UN agencies) and carried
out over 40 medical evacuations.

•	 Scale up: It adapted Scale-up Protocols
to support a joined-up and systematic
response to the pandemic. This was the
first ever system-wide, global emergency
•	 Operational guidance: Critical operaactivation, and it enabled a coordinated
tional guidance was developed to sustain
approach in scaling-up preparedness
humanitarian operations and help organand response efforts, including through
izations prepare and respond effectively.
joint analysis, surge support, resource
For example, the IASC’s Guidance on
mobilization, and supply chain and logisPublic Health and Social Measures for
tical support.
COVID-19 Preparedness and Response

59

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Operations in Low Capacity and Humansix countries. In 2020, CBPFs allocated
itarian Settings outlines ways to adapt to
$236 million (39 per cent of total CBPF
sustain essential health and social servicfunding) to local and national NGOs.
es in the response. Other critical guidance •	 Localization: The pandemic heightened
and resources include Gender Alert, key
the need to implement commitments to
protection advocacy messages, and guidlocalize humanitarian response through
ance on disability inclusion and mental
meaningful engagement, capacity transhealth and psychosocial support (MHPSS).
fer, and quality funding of local and
•	 COVAX: The IASC advocated with Gavi,
national NGOs.
the Vaccine Alliance to establish the
COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access (CO- The IASC promoted the inclusion and parVAX) humanitarian ‘buffer’. This was to ticipation of local and national NGOs in
ensure that up to 5 per cent of vaccine coordination structures based on the Prindoses procured through COVAX will serve ciples of Partnership: quality, transparency,
as contingency stock for at-risk vulnerable results-oriented approach, responsibility
and complementarity.
populations in humanitarian settings.
•	 Expedited funding: The IASC mobilized
efforts to ensure that front-line workers,
especially NGOs and local organizations,
receive funds quickly and at scale. Many
IASC organizations took concrete steps
towards this. For example, UNHCR minimized administrative hurdles and expedited funding disbursements to NGOs. In
2020, it disbursed approximately $940
million to partners.

An OCHA staff
member with a
blind resident of
Western Bahr el
Ghazal, South
Sudan. The resident
received training to
walk independently
using a cane from
the NGO Sudan
Evangelical Mission,
with support from
the South Sudan
Humanitarian Fund.
He no longer relies
on his daughter,
who can now attend
school. Credit:
OCHA/Anthony
Burke

60

•	 Support to NGOs: OCHA directed $25
million to 24 front-line NGOs through
CERF. National NGOs received one third
of the allocation to help implement 26
projects targeting 1.38 million people in

The IASC Interim Guidance on Localization
and the COVID-19 response focuses on promoting responsible partnership practices,
based on equality, risk-sharing, local leadership and meaningful participation. Lessons
learned on implementing this guidance suggest that as well as increasing the participation of local organizations in coordination
systems, the humanitarian system should
also increase the quality of its participation
and ensure a two-way capacity strengthening approach.
The IASC supported other critical operational and advocacy work, including on issues

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Alimatou Maiga,
with the Intimate
Partner Violence
and/or Sexual
Assault one-stop
centre, assisting a
woman survivor of
GBV in Gao, Mali,
in October 2020.
Credit: OCHA/
Michele Cattani

affecting women and girls, especially GBV,
by addressing funding and visibility gaps in
the 2021 GHO. The IASC continues advocating to address the bureaucratic impediments
faced largely by NGOs, and the monitoring of
emerging crises and risks, such as flooding
and the locust situation in East Africa.

Advance Humanitarian and Development
Collaboration, it published the UN-IASC
Light Guidance on Collective Outcomes,
which provides a common understanding
of analysis, funding and financial strategies,
and coordination initiatives to support collective outcomes. It also published Exploring
peace within the Humanitarian-DevelopIt also highlighted the famine risks affect- ment-Peace Nexus, which offers guidance
ing many conflict-affected countries, and it on strengthening the articulation of peace in
provided countries with practical support the nexus, specifically on the conditions unfor effective humanitarian response through der which the triple collaboration approach
the IASC Peer-to-Peer project.
is relevant.
The IASC committed to improving the
response to racism and racial discrimination in the humanitarian sector. It issued a
statement signed by 18 Principals in September 2020, and a compilation of best practices
was shared with IASC organizations to inform them of their initiatives. Likewise, the
IASC minimum standards on duty of care in
the context of COVID-19 were published in
November, informing IASC members’ respective policies and practices.

The IASC promotes organizational cultures
that allow for open, respectful dialogue so
that people receiving assistance and people
working in the humanitarian sector feel safe
and empowered to speak up and take action.
Conflict, public health and other emergencies exacerbate pre-existing inequalities,
vulnerabilities and risks of SEA.

Collaboration between humanitarian and
development organizations and their links
to peace is a key strategic priority of the IASC.
With the UN Joint Steering Committee to

In March 2020, the IASC issued an interim
technical note on PSEA during COVID-19,3
developed with the UN Victims’ Rights Advocate. An associated checklist was issued

Protection against sexual exploitation
and abuse 

3	 See the Inter-Agency Standing Committee interim technical note on protection from sexual exploitation and abuse during COVID-19.

61

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

in June to help field staff verify that prevention/response systems remain functional
and address risk.4 HCs were reminded of
heightened risks of misconduct during the
pandemic and the importance of implementing risk-mitigation measures.

Mental Health and Psychosocial Support

The portal is a key resource for practitioners
and leaders who strive to implement people-centred approaches to AAP, PSEA and
sexual harassment, age and gender, persons
with disabilities and other diversities. It provides tools, guidance, policies and standards,
including a help desk that provides expert
support at national, regional or global levels.

Despite support from several Member States,
MHPSS is still a neglected area in many
humanitarian settings, with insufficient
visibility, recognition and funding. In December 2020, the ERC and several Principals
launched a Joint Inter-Agency Call for Action,
in which they committed to collectively increase efforts to provide MHPSS across all
sectors. They called on partners to scale up
investment in interventions, which are essential to mitigate the effects of war, natural
disasters, displacement and pandemics.

The IASC promoted the provision and use
of MHPSS services for vulnerable people at
greater risk during the pandemic. As the demand for mental health support increased,
the pandemic disrupted or halted critical
mental health services in 93 per cent of
The IASC also equipped partners with aware- countries. A survey of 130 countries carried
ness and skills to define, detect and respond out between June and August 2020 provided
to sexual misconduct. A harmonized tool the first global data showing the pandemto assess partner capacity, the UN Protocol ic’s devastating impact on access to mental
on Allegations of Sexual Exploitation and health services. Approximately 70 per cent of
Abuse Involving Implementing Partners, these services for children and adolescents
was adopted, in addition to the interactive or older adults were disrupted.
learning package in multiple languages
that provides a victim-centred perspective. The IASC contributed to MHPSS analysis and
The IASC deployed a PSEA mission to DRC response options in the GHRP and supportto review existing structures, services and ed humanitarian operations through coorpreventive measures, and to recommend dination and specific COVID-19 guidance.
actions to strengthen the response. Priori- For example, for the first time, a publication
ties included ensuring technical capacity to aimed at children in the pandemic was dissupport PSEA in high-risk contexts, and to tributed. Governments and other partners
strengthen capacity and collaboration for translated this into multiple local languagfact-finding and investigations.
es and adaptations for various audiences,
including accessible formats. Thanks to a
newly established surge mechanism, carried
Accountability to Affected Populations
out with a Dutch standby partner, 15 counFor the first time under the accountability tries received specific MHPSS surge supumbrella, the IASC gathered experts from port, sometimes remotely. The number of
all IASC cross-cutting issues to design inter-agency cross-sectoral country MHPSS
and roll out key deliverables, such as the technical working groups in humanitarian
IASC Accountability and Inclusion Portal, contexts increased from 23 pre-pandemic
launched in 2020.
to 50 in late 2020.

4	 See summary record of Inter-Agency Standing Committee Principals Meeting on the COVID-19 response.

62

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

With a grant
from the Nigeria
Humanitarian Fund,
local civil-society
organization
Greencode delivers
water to IDPs in an
informal settlement
about one hour
outside the Borno
State capital,
Maiduguri. Before
the project started,
this community had
no access to water.
Credit: OCHA/Eve
Sabbagh

63

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Humanitarian financing
In 2020, OCHA helped mobilize and target
resources in new ways to assist the most
vulnerable people affected by the pandemic, ongoing emergencies and crises
worldwide.
The pandemic increased humanitarian
needs and changed the humanitarian operating environment. This raised the demand for OCHA’s core services, including
the mobilization of financial resources
through global response planning, CERF
and CBPFs. Partners needed new analysis
and data products to underpin funding
decisions, flexible and virtual engagement
mechanisms, and opportunities to provide
more innovative and flexible financing to
respond to changing needs.
OCHA helped mobilize over $22.7 billion for
response efforts in 2020 through the GHO
($18.9 billion) and the COVID-19 GHRP
($3.8 billion).
Fundraising for crisis response

By the year’s end, the GHO was about 49
per cent funded and had raised more than
$18.9 billion for the collective UN and NGO
humanitarian appeals — more than the 2019
amount of $17.7 billion. These funds enabled
partners to reach nearly 100 million people
with life-saving support.
Following the official pandemic declaration,
the IASC launched the COVID-19 GHRP, first
published on 28 March and coordinated by
OCHA to address the pandemic’s immediate humanitarian consequences. Following
revisions in May and July, 63 countries were
included with a total request of $9.5 billion.
The GHRP ran parallel to the GHO between
March and December (pandemic response
activities are integrated into ‘regular’ humanitarian programming for 2021).

GHO 2020: PEOPLE IN NEED AND
FUNDING REQUIREMENTS
$18.9B FUNDED

OCHA mobilizes funding through coordi49%
nated HRPs in crisis-affected countries, and
for regional and global crises. It supports 100M PEOPLE REACHED
partners to assess needs and build common
strategies to respond to specific humanitarian crises, including the pandemic.

$38.5B REQUESTED

264.2 PEOPLE IN NEED

Each year, OCHA publishes the GHO, an
overview of humanitarian funding require- COVID-19 GHRP: FUNDING
ments based on evidence and comprehen- REQUIREMENTS
sive assessments. In 2020, the GHO ran in
63 COUNTRIES
parallel to the COVID-19 GHRP. The 2020
GHO presented cost plans for a coordinated
$9.5B REQUESTED
response in countries with HRPs. It helped $3.8B FUNDED
40%
the world understand that $38.5 billion was
required to assist 264.2 million people in
need globally.

64

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

By 31 December, the GHRP was 39.7 per cent
funded and had raised more than $3.8 billion. This enabled partners to address the
immediate pandemic-related humanitarian
consequences, including food insecurity and
reduced education access caused by market
failures and lockdowns.

adviser and secretariat for the ECOSOC Humanitarian Affairs Segment (June, virtual).

OCHA led advocacy to emphasize the importance of supporting countries that had limited ability to respond to the pandemic and its
humanitarian impact. This included driving
a Call to Action in Support of Humanitarian
Noting substantial overall funding to the Assistance in the fight against the pandemic,
GHO and GHRP of nearly 49 and 40 per cent and supporting a Special Session of the Genrespectively, funding to country-level plans eral Assembly and various Security Council
varied. Only 7 of the 62 appeals (11 per cent) discussions, as well as General Assembly and
were funded at 75 per cent or more in 2020. pandemic-related resolutions.
To mobilize resources for both plans and
raise awareness around rapidly evolving
global needs, OCHA hosted eight high-level
pledging events in 2020:

These intergovernmental processes highlighted humanitarian action, the value of the
GHRP and the important role of CERF and
CBPFs in the response. They also reinforced
the norms for humanitarian action and
•	 The High-Level Round Table for Sudan helped ensure that humanitarian response
(January), held in London, which com- was coherent and complemented by other
mitted to multi-year and flexible support. forms of support. 
•	 The COVID-19 GHRP, launched in March
by the UN Secretary-General and IASC
members. After two further events, do- Transparency and
nors had contributed nearly $3.8 billion funding for OCHA
by the end of 2020.
•	 The virtual High-Level Pledging Event
for Yemen (June), where donors pledged
$1.35 billion.
•	 The virtual Supporting the Future of Syria
and the Region event (June), where pledges totalled $5.5 billion for 2020 and $2.2
billion for 2021 and beyond.
•	 The virtual Ministerial Round Table
for Central Sahel (October), which announced $1.74 billion for 2020 and beyond
to scale up life-saving humanitarian aid
to millions of people in Burkina Faso,
Mali and Niger.
•	 CERF’s virtual High-Level Pledging Event
in December 2020, at which donors
pledged over $371 million for 2021.
OCHA continued to support Member States
and the humanitarian system as technical

By 31 December 2020, donor income for
OCHA’s programme and its pooled funds
reached nearly $1.8 billion, just under the 2019
record income of $2 billion. The number of
donors remained stable: 67 Member States
contributed to OCHA last year, in addition to
other entities.
Over half of OCHA’s extrabudgetary (XB) income is in fully flexible, unearmarked funding
that allows OCHA to allocate resources based
on operational priorities (52 per cent, a significant increase from 45 per cent in 2019). OCHA
received $267.2 million for its XB programme
requirements, covering 96.9 per cent of its XB
requirements.5
The timeliness of payments also improved,
with 60 per cent of funding received in the first
six months versus just over half in 2019. How-

5	 This figure is provisional, as additional funding may still be recorded for 2020.

65

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

ever, donor income to OCHA’s XB programme
remains concentrated with a small number
of donors. The top three donors contributed
44 per cent of income; the top 10 contributed 78 per cent.
This is consistent with the donor mix of other
humanitarian partners. Still, diversification
remains a priority.

on increasingly limited financial resources.
With partners, OCHA launched Anticipatory
Action frameworks in Bangladesh, Ethiopia
and Somalia, and developed frameworks in
Chad and Malawi. CERF’s support to these
pilots (see the CERF section below) was critical to innovation and new ways of working.
OCHA-MANAGED POOLED FUNDS

OCHA made significant improvements in
aid transparency. Transparency is critical
to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and
accountability of humanitarian action. OCHA
scored 74 per cent in the 2020 Aid Transparency Index as part of Publish What You
Fund’s biennium assessment on transparency, placing OCHA in the “good” category.
This was a significant improvement from the
2018 Index. OCHA also maintained a high
score on the International Aid Transparency
Initiative (IATI) dashboard for CERF, CBPFs
and programme. OCHA’s programme is one
of the top-three ranking organizations publishing to the IATI registry.

Supporting the humanitarian system to reduce
needs, risks and vulnerability

As part of OCHA’s analytical and policy
support to the humanitarian system, the
Humanitarian Financing Strategy and Analysis Unit undertook research and analysis
to inform strategic decision-making. OCHA
published background papers on rewriting
the global financial rulebook to reduce the
pandemic’s secondary impacts. The goal
was to highlight the price of inaction.
OCHA also developed several indices to
support operational decision-making, including the INFORM COVID-19 Risk Index
(in partnership with the European Commission) and the Compound Risk Monitor
(in partnership with the World Bank, the
Peacebuilding Support Office and the Centre
for Disaster Protection).
OCHA identified early-action measures that
can reduce overall need and thus pressure

66

OCHA’s pooled funds provide life-saving
assistance and offer donors the easiest and
most effective way to support humanitarian
action. Through the complementary added
value of CBPFs and CERF, OCHA raises funds
before crises escalate, allowing donors to
pool their contributions to support the highest priority humanitarian actions when they
are needed most.
In 2020, pooled funds channelled more than
$1.75 billion – some $848 million from CERF
and $908 million from CBPFs – to deliver
support to people in 59 countries. The
pooled funds prioritized women and girls,
people with disabilities, education in crises
and other protection services.
The pooled funds were at the forefront of
the global humanitarian response to the
pandemic, supporting local and early action.
Twenty-seven per cent of CERF allocations
supported pandemic response, including to
secondary effects.
Central Emergency Response Fund

CERF in 2020
CERF’s comparative advantage and distinct added value reside in its worldwide
reach and agility in adding to country-level
resources quickly and at scale when needed. CERF immediately releases funds for
life-saving aid whenever and wherever
new crises emerge or existing emergencies
escalate. It also ensures that critically underfunded operations can keep going. During

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

emergencies, humanitarian organizations
on the ground jointly assess and prioritize
needs and apply for CERF grants.

mized flexibility to prioritize critical country
programmes aligned with the GHRP.
•	 Funding to NGOs for the front-line response.
In June 2020, CERF piloted an approach
to provide NGOs with more direct access
to CERF funding: it channelled $25 million
via IOM to 24 front-line NGOs for pandemic
response in six countries. One third of recipients were national NGOs.

CERF’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic
and other humanitarian crises in 2020 was
possible thanks to the unprecedented levels of donors’ generosity in 2019 and their
sustained support in 2020. The record-high
income received in 2019 – a large portion
of it in December 2019 and carried over to
2020 – allowed flexible and innovative CERF •	 Funding to support GBV programming.
CERF earmarked a portion of resources
allocations to be disbursed with pace and
from its Underfunded Emergencies window
agility at the start of the year. As a result,
specifically for GBV response activities.
CERF was able to deliver unprecedented reThe initial provision of $5.5 million from
sults, demonstrating that with an increase
the overall envelope of $100 million had a
in resources, so much more can be achieved.

catalytic effect: across 10 countries, almost
$22 million was allocated to dedicated GBV
CERF introduced new and innovative approjects and health projects that contribute
proaches to meet the unique challenges of
to GBV prevention and mitigation.
the global pandemic, including block grants
to UN agencies of a total value of $95 million,
allowing the agencies flexibility to direct •	 Support to cash programming in response
to rising food insecurity. In November 2020,
resources to where they were needed the
the ERC allocated $80 million for cash
most; CERF’s first-ever direct allocation to
programmes in six countries with severe
NGOs, channelling $25 million through IOM
levels of food insecurity exacerbated by the
to 24 NGOs in six countries; a tailored allopandemic.
Cash programming is one of the
cation of $25 million to allow UN Women
most cost-effective modalities to address
and UNFPA to respond to an increase in GBV
humanitarian needs.
incidents; and an $80 million allocation for
cash programming to address rising food
insecurity in six countries in Africa and the Overall, CERF grants helped humanitarMiddle East.
ian partners deliver critical health care
(including pandemic-related information
campaigns) to 41.7 million people, food
CERF innovates in
security assistance to 16.2 million people,
water and sanitation to 12 million people,
response to pandemicprotection to 8.6 million people, nutrition
6
programmes for 3.7 million people and shelrelated needs
ter to 1.2 million people. It also supported
early action, emergency education, cash
•	 Global UN block grants. In February 2020,
programmes and camp management for
CERF made global block-grant allocations of
millions of people in need.
$95 million directly to UN agencies globally
(rather than country specific). This maxi-

In addition to the pandemic response,
CERF continued to respond to global hu-

6	 Of the $105 million CERF allocated to address the pandemic’s secondary impacts on food insecurity ($80 million) or GBV ($20
million), $54 million was disbursed in 2021. Further details on CERF’s pandemic-related support can be found in the Progress
Reports to the GHRP.

67

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

manitarian needs and provided life-saving alleviating suffering. OCHA helped humanitariassistance to people affected by conflict, nat- an organizations achieve this during 2020.
ural disasters and disease outbreaks, such
CERF committed up to $140 million to scale
as Ebola and cholera.
CERF quickly released $30 million to immediately scale up shelter and other critical assistance to thousands of civilians
in north-west Syria after  air strikes and
shelling forced an estimated 586,000 people to flee their homes. Shortly after, CERF
allocated $10 million for  early  response
to the devastating desert locust outbreak
in Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia. The timely
allocation supported an immediate scaleup of efforts to control the infestation and
mitigate its impact.
During 2020, CERF also provided a record-high $225 million to 20 underfunded
and neglected crises across the globe.
CERF ALLOCATIONS BY
EMERGENCY TYPE
3.1

2.8
2.6
1.8
1.6
1.3
1.3

OCHA helps roll out
anticipatory action
Getting ahead of crises by taking anticipatory
action can make a vast, positive difference in

up collective anticipatory action through pilot
programmes for various hazards. OCHA allocated $31 million to prevent suffering ahead of
droughts in Ethiopia and Somalia ($13.2 million7 to Ethiopia; $15 million to Somalia) and
monsoon floods in Bangladesh ($2.8 million8).
By the year’s end, IASC members had rolled
out anticipatory action projects in more than
60 countries.
As an example, on 4 July 2020 severe floods
were forecast for Bangladesh from 18 July onward. Within four hours of the scientific trigger,
CERF released financing to agencies, making it
the Fund’s fastest-ever allocation. By the time
the water reached life-threatening levels, more
than 220,000 people had already received
assistance through the UN and its partners,
including the Bangladesh Red Crescent
Society, 10 local NGOs and the Government
of Bangladesh.
Independent impact evaluations demonstrate
how this anticipatory approach led to a faster,
more efficient (cost effective) and more dignified provision of aid.
OCHA’s engagement demonstrated that collective anticipatory humanitarian action at scale
is possible. Its success depends on building
on experience, country-based systems and
expertise; focusing on desired impacts and
actions enabled by forecasts and triggers; and
ensuring that coordination is effective.
OCHA’s work in 2020 proves that scaled-up,
collective anticipatory action is:
•	 Faster than regular rapid response. In
Bangladesh, the fastest-ever CERF alloca-

7	 To manage risk, the Ethiopia drought pilot was activated in two tranches: $13.2 million in December 2020 and up to $6.8 million in
February 2021, contingent on forecasts.
8	 The $2.4 million allocation came out of the Anticipatory Action envelope and was later reprogrammed for regular rapid response.

68

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

tion enabled agencies to provide assistance
before peak flooding struck the most vulnerable people.

For example, UNFPA Bangladesh specifically
designed dignity kits for the transgender
community in Bangladesh, as it knew the
target population’s profiles in advance.

•	 Cost-effective and more efficient than comparative rapid response. For instance, IOM
found that rehabilitating and upgrading boreholes ahead of drought impacts in Somalia
improved household finances, increased
people’s mental health, improved livestock
health, reduced water-related disputes and
mitigated drought-related migration. In
Bangladesh, compared to previous traditional rapid responses, more people were
reached at half the cost compared to previous years, and funding helped reduce the
price of goods and the cost of logistics. As
a result, FAO was able to distribute animal
feed to 10 per cent more livestock owners,
and UNFPA reduced its response cost by
12 per cent.
•	 More dignified. By receiving support before
a crisis, affected communities are empowered to prepare for and face crises on their
own terms. An independent impact evaluation by Oxford University and the Centre for
Disaster Protection showed that recipients
were more likely to evacuate and lose fewer
assets; less likely to borrow; and start to
recover more quickly. Children and adults
had higher food-consumption scores, more
than 90 per cent of all assisted populations
reported significant improvements in their
quality of life, and the positive impact of relatively small, one-off humanitarian assistance
continued several months after the intervention. Monitoring and evaluation reports from
Bangladesh and Somalia showed high satisfaction rates from assisted people of the
quality and timing of the interventions, significant quality of life improvements, better
mental health and reduced financial stress.
•	 Improves the quality of programming.
Advanced planning leads to better collaboration between UN agencies and their implementing partners during the programme
design phase. Moreover, the type of intervention is better and the targeting more precise.

Country-Based Pooled Funds

Humanitarian
organizations were

CBPFs in 2020
CBPFs direct resources to the front lines of
the world’s most severe emergencies. Their
comparative advantage and distinct added
value reside in their predictability for HCs
and ability to fund a variety of humanitarian
needs, working directly with a wide range of
organizations, including local and international NGOs. CBPFs help them to prioritize
the most urgent assistance and ensure that
funding reaches the most critical emergency operations.

able to provide aid
to host communities
and returnees with
support from the
Humanitarian Fund
for the Central
African Republic.
Credit: OCHA/
Virginie Bero

CBPFs allow donors to pool their contributions into single, unearmarked funds to
support national humanitarian efforts for
a specific country. The target funding level
for CBPFs is set at 15 per cent of the funding received by corresponding HRPs, which
amounted to $1.7 billion in 2020.
Globally, CBPFs received $863 million in
contributions in 2020 and allocated $915
million. Local and national NGOs received
$328.6 million (36 per cent of total CBPFs

69

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

funding). The average number of working
days to process CBPFs disbursements in 2020
was 7.5 days — a record low and well within
the 10-day target.

CBPF ALLOCATIONS BY
PARTNER TYPE
3.1

Access to CBPFs allows organizations to
respond to emerging crises more nimbly.
CBPFs are the largest source of direct funding for national organizations, according to
Development Initiatives. One example in
2020 was the Syria Cross-Border Humanitarian Fund, which provided $137 million
to local and national NGOs and the Turkish
Red Crescent, accounting for 74 per cent of
the $165 million allocated that year.

2.8

The CBPFs in CAR, DRC, South Sudan and
Sudan transferred UNDP’s management responsibilities to OCHA in 2020. OCHA and
UNDP worked together to ensure this tran- Venezuela Humanitarian
sition. The consolidation improved efficiency, flexibility and accountability through a Fund & Regional Pooled
dynamic risk management approach. OCHA Fund for Central and West
invested in staffing and training at headquarters and in country offices to manage Africa established
the transition and take on the Managing
Agent responsibilities.
In 2020 OCHA established two new funds to
respond to emerging and increasing needs.
The Venezuela Humanitarian Fund: Following
the establishment of a CBPF in Venezuela at
the end of September, OCHA established a
dedicated in-country focal point. The Fund received $5 million in 2020 from Canada, Ireland,
RO Korea, Spain, Switzerland and the UK.

Distribution of
cooked food in
Venezuela’s Colinas
de Maisanta
neighbourhood,
as part of the
increased response
to COVID-19. Credit:
OCHA/Gema Cortes

70

Regionally hosted Pooled Fund for Central and West Africa: In December, the ERC
approved a Regionally hosted Pooled Fund
for Central and West Africa, focusing on the
Sahel. The Fund will establish country-specific
envelopes to allow for incremental roll out and
learning. The Regional Humanitarian Financing Unit and OCHA’s regional offices ensure
coordination, synergies and programmatic
alignment among country envelopes and
disseminate regional analysis to country-level leadership.

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Addressing chronically
underfunded areas
For the second consecutive year, OCHA’s
pooled funds leveraged specific funding to
support four strategic areas that are chronically underfunded: support for women and
girls, including tackling GBV; programmes
targeting people with disabilities; education in
protracted crises; and general protection.
•	 In 2020, CBPFs allocated $581 million —
around 64.5 per cent of total allocations
— to projects that contribute to gender
equality, including across age groups. This
is in line with the IASC GAM assessment.
According to the preliminary data, of the 50
million people targeted by CBPFs’ partners,
26.5 million were women and girls (53 per
cent). CBPFs allocated $36.2 million to
projects that included GBV programming.
Examples include local NGO Nile Hope creating safe houses for GBV survivors in Wau,
South Sudan, and the NGO Caritas Liban
providing shelter and emergency assistance
to GBV survivors in Syria. CBPFs actively
promoted women’s participation in governance arrangements; across the 18 funds,
women represent international NGOs in 12
advisory boards and national NGOs in 11 advisory boards. CERF increased its support to
GBV programming in 2020, disbursing $65
million.9 It earmarked $5.5 million to help
women and girls in underfunded emergencies to access health, psychosocial, legal
and shelter support.

lations, up from 50 per cent in 2019 to 79 per
cent of all CERF projects in 2020. Data from
project proposals indicates that at least 8.1
million people with disabilities were targeted
under CERF grants. Similarly, according to
the preliminary data, CBPFs’ partners have
supported 6.4 million people with disabilities
(around 6 per cent of all people targeted).
•	 Education is often neglected in protracted
emergencies, and children miss multiple
years of schooling that are difficult to make
up. In 2020, CERF allocated more than $29
million to emergency education projects,
supporting an estimated 2.4 million children. Through CBPFs, the Education Cluster
received $32 million in 2020 (over 3 per
cent of all allocations), targeting around 1
million children.
•	 The Protection Cluster received $82.4
million from CERF, which is the highest-ever
amount in a single year and 10 per cent of
overall CERF funding. The cluster’s projects
targeted 8.6 million10 people with CERF-funded life-saving protection assistance in 2020.
CBPFs allocated $95.2 million to protection
activities (10 per cent of total allocations),
targeting nearly 6 million people in need.
CBPFs provided $14.5 million to support
child protection activities.

•	 In emergencies, people with disabilities are
often among the most vulnerable. In 2019,
CERF and CBPFs started systematically
tracking activities targeting people with disabilities. In 2020, CERF saw an increase in the
proportion of CERF projects that included
people with disabilities in their target popu-

9	 Includes $25.1 million disbursed to the GBV sector, as well as the GBV allocation.
10	 This number only includes activities in the Protection Cluster. It does not capture protection activities implemented with CERF funds
across other clusters.

71

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

ALLOCATIONS BY COUNTRY AND FUNDING MECHANISM

CBPF

CERF

CERF
Rapid Response

Sudan
Syria Cross Border
Yemen
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Syrian Arab Republic
Afghanistan
Ethiopia
South Sudan
Somalia
Occupied Palestinian Territory
COVID-19 pandemic*
Central African Republic
Nigeria
Lebanon
Zimbabwe
Iraq
Burkina Faso
Niger
Pakistan
Haiti
Chad
Bangladesh
Myanmar
Jordan
Mozambique
Ukraine
Cameroon
Mali
Uganda
Honduras
Kenya
Guatemala
Congo
Burundi
Mauritania
Democratic People's Republic of Korea
Colombia
Libya
Venezuela
Madagascar
Angola
Namibia
Philippines
Viet Nam
El Salvador
Iran
Vanuatu
Nicaragua
Djibouti
Fiji
Rwanda
Lesotho
Tanzania
Turkey
Zambia
Botswana
Uzbekistan
Brazil
Bolivia
Ecuador
Peru

72

$75.27M
184.59
98.63
74.93
67.91
74.27
57.48
62.38
36.56
34.15
30.84
23.36
16.21
27.59
9.68

16.25
8.33
9.41

CERF

$109.8 M
30.00
39.95
31.80
17.57
39.32
33.07
26.69
23.24
42.32
7.85
1.94
8.11
35.29
0.75
20.20
12.77
7.28
6.89
6.68
13.38
1.25
2.39
7.00
0.93
9.73
9.13
3.95
3.90
8.51
2.52
6.93
1.86
0.90
0.21
5.04
4.40
4.00
3.90
3.40
3.11
3.00
3.00
2.77
2.61
2.00
1.94
1.00
1.00
$750k
428
428
399
399
214
214
107
107
107

TOTAL

Underfunded
Emergencies

$35.00M
29.98
24.89
13.00

13.00
12.99
6.00
10.95
5.97
12.00
12.02
4.89
6.00
7.00

5.00
5.00
4.99
5.00
6.00
5.00
5.00

$185.07M
184.59
163.63
144.86
124.60
104.84
96.80
95.45
63.24
57.39
42.32
38.69
38.30
37.30
35.29
28.34
26.20
23.72
22.94
18.89
18.70
18.27
17.50
16.72
14.00
10.34
9.73
9.13
8.95
8.90
8.51
7.52
6.93
6.86
6.00
5.90
5.21
5.04
4.40
4.00
3.90
3.40
3.11
3.00
3.00
2.77
2.61
2.00
1.94
1.00
1.00
$750k
428
428
399
399
214
214
107
107
107

*Global logistical services as part of CERF’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Note: Regional and global allocations are disaggregated by country.

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

TRANSFORMING
HUMANITARIAN
ACTION
As humanitarian action evolves, OCHA has continued to
contribute to the process with rigorous monitoring, evaluations
and policy development.

73

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

Transforming humanitarian action

Building humanitarian leadership

A year after being
affected by Cyclone
Idai, Hortencia
Abreu sheltered in
a tent after rains
destroyed her own
tent in Mozambique
in 2020. Her small
crop production
was also affected.
Hortencia still
depends on
humanitarian aid

The leadership of UN RCs and HCs is crucial
in saving and transforming lives in crises
worldwide. On behalf of the IASC, OCHA
continued to strengthen humanitarian
leadership in the field. Through targeted
talent scouting and talent management, the
cadre of HCs is recognized for high performance and has become increasingly diverse.
During 2020 the humanitarian system saw
significant progress in diversity, particularly
geographical diversity. Of the 16 newly designated HCs in 2020, eight (50 per cent) were
women and nine (55 per cent) were from
non-WEOG (Western European and other
group) countries that were historically underrepresented. This brought the percentage
of HCs from non-WEOG regions up from 41
per cent in early 2020 to 48 per cent by the
year’s end. The percentage of women rose
from 37 to 42 per cent during 2020.

to survive. Credit:
OCHA/Saviano
Abreu

74

Building on the IASC’s investments in
strengthening leadership over the past

decade, OCHA worked with the UN Development Coordination Office and the wider
Secretariat to ensure greater coherence and
strengthen leadership across the RC system.
Improvements were made in RC selection
processes, performance management and
leadership development, and a new RC/HC
Talent Pipeline is expected to transform the
ability of the UN Sustainable Development
Group and the IASC to ensure that strong
humanitarian leadership is in place when
and where needed.
The pandemic underscored the need for all
129 RCs to meet the required competencies
and skills, including on humanitarian issues, allowing them to effectively coordinate
international response to support Governments’ efforts.
Evaluating response

OCHA’s Evaluation and Oversight Section
coordinated the completion of two major

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

Transforming humanitarian action

Aid workers creating
GBV awareness
among displaced
communities in
Mozambique’s Cabo
Delgado Province.
Credit: UN/Helvisney
Cardoso

Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluations
(IAHEs) in 2020. The evaluations provide
IASC partners and other stakeholders with
critical insight and recommendations for
improving the IASC’s collective performance
during major emergencies, and for advancing the integration of gender equality and
the empowerment of women into humanitarian action.
Response to Cyclone Idai in Mozambique

The IAHE of Cyclone Idai in Mozambique
was the first assessment of the Scale-Up
activation mechanism. The IASC adopted
this mechanism in 2018 to ensure the rapid
and effective mobilization of system-wide
capacities in response to major emergencies.

bilize human and financial resources in the
early stages of the response. It also helped
strengthen collective accountability to the
affected people by ensuring their participation in rapid assessments and providing an inter-agency feedback-and-complaint mechanism.
A survey showed that the majority of affected people felt that humanitarian responders
treated them with respect, and most people
stated that the assistance was in line with
their needs.

The IAHE also identifies opportunities to improve future collective responses in similar
contexts. These include better use of anticipatory action triggers and cash-based interventions; greater engagement with local
The evaluation found that immediate hu- civil-society organizations and the private
manitarian needs were anticipated correctly sector; and more coordinated management
and contributed to the successful response. of monitoring and assessment data.
This positive outcome was due to the ScaleUp activation, joint preparedness, strong
collaboration with the Government and Gender equality and the empowerment of
women and girls
timely joint aerial assessments.
The first evaluation to assess the progress of
As intended, the Scale-Up activation helped the IASC agenda on gender equality and the
to increase in-country capacities and mo- empowerment of women and girls (GEEWG)

75

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Transforming humanitarian action

since 2017 was the first thematic evaluation Better analysis to inform response
undertaken by the IAHE Steering Group, The enhanced HPC approach is the culminaled by OCHA.
tion of two years’ work by OCHA and partners to ensure the HPC evolves and matures.
The independent evaluation team found
that the IASC has made notable progress The HPC is a series of actions to analyse
since 2017 in integrating GEEWG into its needs, and to prioritize, plan and coordinate
humanitarian responses, especially in pro- response delivery during a crisis.
tracted crises.
It focuses on how humanitarian crises imSeveral factors contributed to the inclusion pact people’s lives, livelihoods and coping
of GEEWG into humanitarian responses. capacities by analysing the combined effects
These included developing the IASC Gen- of shocks, stresses, vulnerabilities and cader Accountability Framework; cluster-lev- pacities. The new approach pays specific
el and agency-specific guidance on gender attention to priorities identified by affected
mainstreaming; greater availability of gen- people themselves, and to particular vulnerder advisers through the Gender Standby abilities and diversities such as those linked
Capacity Project and cluster-lead agency to gender, age and disability.
surge mechanisms; and increasing the application of the GAM.
The new intersectoral analysis method
— the Joint Intersectoral Analysis FrameInvestments in the guidance, training and work (JIAF) — also captures chronic and
availability of GEEWG expertise helped hu- structural causes and emerging risks to
manitarian organizations to more system- better define immediate acute needs versus
atically consult affected women and girls longer-term needs.
and increase the collection and reporting of
sex- and age-disaggregated data.
The IASC endorsed a first version of the JIAF
in 2020, and the first formal application took
The IAHE also captured best practices and place in the 2021 HNOs. Libya’s 2021 HNO
provided recommendations to further main- is a good example of the depth of analysis
stream GEEWG into humanitarian action. that can be achieved using the JIAF, even
when working with limited data and conThe evaluation identified opportunities to strained access environments compounded
improve future collective responses, such as by COVID-19. The analysis of humanitarian
more rapid deployments of gender experts in needs and their severity was differentiated
sudden-onset emergencies, more predicta- between five population groups with disble gender capacities at the cluster and HCT tinct needs. This analysis allowed the HRP to
levels, increasing funding for GEEWG pro- be formulated with more specific and priorgramming, and improving coordination and itized strategic objectives directly linked to
accountability for mainstreaming GEEWG the HNO findings, which is a key objective
at the country and global levels.
of the enhanced approach to the HPC.
Full reports can be accessed at unocha.org/
themes/evaluations-and-reviews/reports

76

In Afghanistan, the OCHA country office and
its partners carried out a robust analysis to
identify potential risks and influences on
the needs facing populations of concern
throughout 2021. Plans in 2019 reflected
the assumption that people would recover
and move out of humanitarian need. How-

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

Transforming humanitarian action

ever, a midyear review indicated this was
unlikely, and subsequent planning focused
on analysing the drivers of need, along with
risks and opportunities, to define the most
likely scenario. Humanitarians also engaged
with development organizations to create a
common needs analysis that puts humanitarian needs in the wider context of ‘social
assistance’ needs in the country.

Learning from the pandemic

Participants at OCHA’s annual Global Humanitarian Policy Forum discussed the political, socioeconomic and security implications of the pandemic and how they might
transform humanitarian action.

Held in December 2020, the virtual twoday forum focused on the theme ‘A Case for
Transformation? The Longer-term Implications of the COVID-19 Pandemic’. This was
Decentralization
OCHA’s ninth annual policy event, convened
Decentralization is part of the Secretary-Gen- with the United Nations Foundation.
eral’s vision for reforming the UN, with the
aim of making it a more agile, flexible and To enable broad participation, the forum’s
accountable organization that better serves opening event was live-streamed on Twitter.
people who rely on its activities worldwide. It hosted over 1,000 participants from humanitarian and development communities,
For OCHA, this has been an opportunity to Governments, the private sector, non-profcontinue improving the quality of support its, civil society and academia in more than
that its headquarters functions provide to 80 countries.
the field, strengthen capacity to manage its
delegated authorities, and ensure that the The forum concluded with these policy-reorganization remains financially sustainable. lated lessons learned from the pandemic:

The pandemic affected anticipated time •	 The humanitarian system cannot afford
to repeat the collective failure in preparframes for the decentralization process in
edness. Efforts to scale up preparedness
2020, but OCHA progressed with relocating
must go hand-in-hand with building
specific activities from New York and Geneva
affected communities’ resilience.
to The Hague, Istanbul and regional offices.
•	 It is time to invest in local front-line leadSixty-six posts, or around 16 per cent of all
ership, honour long-standing commitHQ-based posts, have been or are in the
ments to empower local organizations,
process of being relocated from Geneva
and reframe humanitarian partnerships
and New York to The Hague, Istanbul and
around responsibilities and compararegional offices. During 2020 relocation to
tive advantages.
The Hague was effectively completed, and
•	“Leading with equity” means taking a
a host-country agreement with Turkey for
rights-based approach to humanitarian
presence in Istanbul was finalized by the
action, linking response to long-term
year’s end, enabling the completion of deprogrammes for vulnerable groups, and
centralization during 2021.
combating structural racism and discrimination in the humanitarian system.
OCHA will continue to identify relocation
opportunities within other functions where •	 Technology can help to enable earlier,
faster and potentially more effective huthis will improve service to field operations,
manitarian action. But these advantages
but it will maintain a strong footprint in
come with complex challenges and risks,
Geneva, where OCHA’s humanitarian leadincluding unequal access to technology
ership has been strengthened.
and connectivity, inadequate data protection and privacy, and the spread of

77

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Transforming humanitarian action

A returnee
Venezuelan boy
washes his hands
during COVID-19
confinement in a
temporary shelter in
Venezuela. Credit:
OCHA/Gema Cortes

78

misinformation and disinformation. Realizing the ‘digital promise’ requires using
technologies in a way that is responsible,
sustainable and inclusive, and protects
human life and dignity.
•	 Building coalitions for success requires
long-sighted, diplomatic efforts before
a crisis, and agility, solidarity and coordination after it strikes. Cross-sector
collaboration is not a choice — it is an
indispensable building block.

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

FUNDING

FUNDING
Only a small percentage of OCHA’s annual programme budget
is funded from the UN Regular Budget. CERF and CBPFs are
entirely funded by donor contributions. OCHA remains reliant
on voluntary contributions to implement its mandate.

79

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

FUNDING

PROGRAMME BUDGET

FIELD PROPORTION OF OCHA’S
PROGRAMME BUDGET TREND

In 2020, 94 per cent of OCHA’s programme
activities were funded by voluntary contributions. The remaining 6 per cent came
from the UN Regular Budget, which is
paid from assessed contributions from UN
Member States.
OCHA’s extrabudgetary (XB) programme
budget was $262.7 million at the start of
2020. The budget increased by about only 3
per cent during the year, closing the year at
$271.8 million. Most of the budget increase
(79 per cent) was in the field, to meet increased coordination requirements in Yemen
and several African countries. The biggest
budget increases in Africa were in some of
OCHA’s largest field operations: DRC, Somalia and South Sudan. OCHA was able to
respond to the pandemic through strategic
reprioritization of activities. At the year’s
end, the budget for field operations represented 75 per cent of total XB requirements.
The budget for headquarters activities represented 25 per cent.

2016

67%

FIELD XB BUDGET
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)

71%

27%

HQ XB BUDGET
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)

23%

6%

REGULAR BUDGET

6%

2017

2018

2019

2020

EXTRABUDGETARY BUDGET:
FIELD VS. HQ BUDGET (US$)
HQ ACTIVITIES
$66.7M
25%

FIELD ACTIVITIES
$205.1M
75%

Donors reiterated their trust in OCHA and
its capacity to bring together humanitarian
Donor income for the three strands of OCHA entities to achieve common goals. Despite
activities (programme, CERF and CBPFs) pressure on national budgets, many donor
reached $1.77 billion in 2020, less than the re- parliaments enacted supplemental budgets
cord income in 2019 of $2 billion, which was to tackle COVID-19.
a year of exceptional contributions to CERF
and CBPFs. The decrease as compared to Income for OCHA’s XB programme budget
2019 was due to the one-off income received reached $267.3 million in 2020, covering 97
in 2019 from one donor for CERF ($834.6 per cent of XB programme requirements.
million in 2019 compared to $639 million The stability in donor contributions to
in 2020) and CBPFs ($948 million in 2019, OCHA’s activities during an exceptional
with $861.7 million in 2020). Income in 2020 year demonstrated continued confidence in
was therefore the same level as in 2018, with OCHA’s capacity to implement its mandate
an income of $1.8 billion. More information and maintain operational performance, even
on pooled funds can be found on page 66, under challenging circumstances.
and in the funds’ respective annual reports,
In addition to income to the programme
available on the OCHA website.
budget, $9.8 million was received for
2020 was extraordinary by all measures. OCHA-managed activities implemented in
Multilateralism was put to the test, and partnership with other organizations, such
generosity and solidarity were exceptional. as national UNDAC mission accounts held
PROGRAMME & POOLED FUNDS INCOME

80

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

FUNDING

with OCHA, the ProCap and GenCap Project
rosters, CBi and the Humanitarian Data Centre in The Hague. As these are pass-through
contributions and not included in OCHA’s
XB programme budget, income to these activities is counted separately.
To cover its administrative costs, OCHA
charges programme support costs of 7 per
cent on its XB programme activities, 3 per
cent for other pass-through grants, and 2
per cent on CERF and CBPFs.
OCHA measures the quality of its income in
terms of predictability, flexibility, timeliness
and diversity, with positive trends shown
against all criteria in 2020.

regional crisis). See pages 84 and 85 on the
use of flexible funding in 2020.
Timeliness

Timely payments are an important element
for effective cash management to cover XB
activities. Timeliness of payments in 2020
continued along a pattern similar to 2019,
with about a third of contributions (30
per cent) received in the first quarter, and
well over half (60 per cent) received in the
first half of the year, up from 52 per cent
in 2019. OCHA thus benefited from a stable cash-and-liquidity situation throughout the year.
Diversity

In 2020, OCHA received contributions for
its programme, CERF and CBPFs from 68
Member States and the European Commission, the same number as in 2019. Fifty-eight
Member States contributed to CERF, 35
Member States contributed to CBPFs, and 40
Member States and the European Commission contributed to the programme budget.
OCHA also received contributions from the
private sector (United Parcel Service Foundation), regional and municipal authorities,
and individuals. OCHA has consistency in
the overall number of donors, but it continues to rely on a small group of donors for
the bulk of its funding. The top three donors
to OCHA’s programme contributed 44 per
cent of all income, and the top 10 donors
contributed 78 per cent of all income. In
line with its 2018-2021 Corporate Resource
Mobilization Strategy, OCHA continues to
seek to broaden the donor base for its programme and pooled funds, targeting highFlexibility
and middle-income countries through direct
In 2020, donors gave a record amount ($138.4 outreach, as well as generally strengthening
million) as fully unearmarked contribu- public communication and demonstrating
tions, representing 51.7 per cent of total results and added value.
programme income. This is higher than
the $121 million received in 2019 in fully
unearmarked funds. Donors also gave an
additional $23.7 million as softly earmarked
contributions (for a geographic region or
Predictability

OCHA benefited from a predictable and stable income of $111.8 million from multi-year
agreements with 17 donors. Most of this income ($93.6 million) is fully unearmarked.
New multi-year agreements were signed
in 2020 with Canada, Denmark, Germany,
Iceland and Switzerland. CBPFs benefited
from multi-year agreements with Australia, Canada, Germany, Switzerland and the
UK, with an income value of $222.6 million
in 2020. CERF had multi-year agreements
with Australia, Canada, Denmark, Iceland,
Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Qatar, Sweden and the
UK, for an annual value of $401.6 million.
OCHA’s strong and long-standing relationships with OCHA Donor Support Group
(ODSG) members also ensure consistent
income year on year.

81

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

FUNDING

OCHA PROGRAMME
M= Million

EARMARKING TRENDS – TOTAL (US$)

TOP DONORS – UNEARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)

250

United Kingdom

200

2020
$138.4M

UNEARMARKED

Sweden
Denmark

150

Norway

100

Qatar

EARMARKED

Netherlands

50

Belgium
2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

Australia
Germany
Ireland
United States

EARMARKING TRENDS – PERCENTAGES

New Zealand
Finland

61%

UNEARMARKED
52%

France
Switzerland

EARMARKED
48%

39%
2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

TIMELINESS OF DISBURSEMENT
100%

FINAL DISTRIBUTION OF
UNEARMARKED FUNDING (US$)

HEADQUARTERS
$47.2M
30.2%

COUNTRY OFFICES
75%

3RD QUARTER

50%

2ND QUARTER

25%

2017

$79.0M
50.6%

2019

2020

HQ

36%

REGIONAL OFFICES

$6.7M
4.3%

FLEXIBLE
IMPLEMENTATION
2018

ALLOCATED

FIELD
64%

CARRIED
THROUGH
2021

(CARRIED THROUGH
2021)
$23,3M
14.9%

Note: The difference of $17.8M, between unearmarked income of 2020 ($138.4M) and
unearmarked cash that was available for 2020 ($156.2M) is due to: 1) exchange loss (between
pledged amount and cash received amount), 2) donor pledged but not paid yet, 3) 2019 pledge
but cash received in 2020 and 4) carry over from 2019.

82

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

FUNDING

OCHA Donor
Support Group
Created by Member States in 1998 as a “group
of friends,” originally with seven members, the
ODSG included 30 members in 2020. It is a
sounding board on a range of issues related to
policy, programme and finance. The membership criteria include the commitment to
provide continued financial support to OCHA,
and the willingness to provide political support
to implement General Assembly resolution
46/182. PROGRAMME EXPENDITURE

OCHA’s implementation rate in 2020 was 99
per cent under the XB programme budget,
continuing the trend from previous years
for OCHA to operate at nearly full capacity.
CASH OPERATING BALANCE

DIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES (US$)
Field-based
humanitarian coordination

72.0% 193.3M

Direct HQ support
for field coordination

42.9M 16%

Communication and
information management

14.9M 6%

Humanitarian
financing support

7.3M 3%

Executive direction
and management

6.1M 2%

One-time
costs

2.4M 1%

Programme
common cost

1.9M 0.7%

Policy and
normative development

1.3M 0.5%

DIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIVITIES (US$)
Administrative activities

21.2M 59.0%

OCHA ended 2020 with a sound programme Field-based Humanitarian
11.8M 33.0%
Coordination
closing balance of $203 million, including
Communication and
3M 8.0%
$144.3 million kept as operational cash bal- Information
Management
ance (up from $130.4 million for the previous year); $22.3 million already allocated for
programming; $32.4 million in balances (of
which $27.3 million is in paid contributions
120
and $5.1 million in unpaid pledges) from CLOSING BALANCE
earmarked and unearmarked projects to be BREAKDOWN 10(US$)
5
implemented in 2021; and $4 million kept as
OPERATIONAL
contingency funds to cover sudden-onset
CASH
90
$144.3M
emergencies.
71%

OCHA needs an operating cash balance of at
least $114 million at the beginning of each
year to advance about $63 million to field
offices and headquarters in anticipation of
cash to be received from donors during the
year. OCHA also needs to advance $51 million
to UNDP every year to cover national staff
and UNV salaries liability for the entire year.

75
60
45
UNEARMARKED
FUNDS
$23.3M*
15%

EARMARKED
FUNDS
$9.1M
4%

CONTINGENCY
FUNDS
$4.0M
2%

30
15

**

0

OTHER

(NON-PROGRAMMABLE)
$22.3M
11%

*Including unpaid pledge $0.30M
**Including unpaid pledge $4.76M

83

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

FUNDING

FLEXIBLE INCOME IN 2020

Use of flexible funding

During 2020, flexible funding was used
Flexible funding received in 2020
to cover the full range of OCHA’s coordiFlexible income consists of unearmarked nation tools and services worldwide, with
and softly earmarked contributions, which funding used to kick-start responses to
give OCHA full or partial flexibility to use new emergencies (including the pandemic
funds based on operational requirements. response); scale up operations in deterioFunds are considered unearmarked when rating crises; fill temporary funding gaps
they are for OCHA’s overall activities, with to avoid interruptions in critical operations
no limitation for use in any specific office in protracted, lower-profile crises; and enor project. Donors typically restrict softly sure the delivery of essential field support
earmarked contributions for use in a geo- from global programmes. Flexible funding
graphic region or regional crisis. Flexible can serve more than one of these purposes,
funding allows OCHA to plan more strategi- as it can be moved from one cost plan to
cally across its operations and to scale up its another throughout the year, to where it
presence during a disaster, or to deploy staff is most needed.
in anticipation of a disaster, without having
to wait for donors to provide the resources. When all income, including earmarked income, was received at the end of 2020, 64
OCHA has historically received a substantial per cent of unearmarked funding remained
portion of its income as unearmarked. In directly allocated to field operations and
2020, OCHA received a record $138.4 million only 36 per cent to global headquarters
in unearmarked funding and $23.7 million programmes. All regional and country ofin softly earmarked funding. Twenty-nine fices depended on unearmarked funding
donors contributed unearmarked funding allocations to fully cover their operational
and twelve donors contributed softly ear- requirements in 2020, even high-profile
marked funding.
and traditionally well-funded crises, such
as Syria and Yemen.
Thanks to its flexible nature, unearmarked
funding can be used several times during a Ethiopia is an example of the important
budget cycle, thus achieving a “multiplier gap-filling function of unearmarked fundeffect.” For example, if unearmarked fund- ing. Conflict, displacement, natural disasters
ing is allocated to kick-start a response to a and locust invasions in that country caused
sudden-onset disaster, any unused portion a worsening of the crisis and increased hucan be moved once earmarked funding is manitarian needs. At the end of 2020, OCHA
received for the response, to address funding Ethiopia was well funded from donor eargaps in other operations.
marked contributions, with 89 per cent of
its cost plan covered. However, until May
Unearmarked and softly earmarked con- 2020 only around $2 million in earmarked
tributions play a unique role in OCHA’s contributions had been received, which was
cash-flow management, and they reduce insufficient to cover costs. Unearmarked
transaction costs associated with having funding was critical to cover this gap and ento deal with overlapping and/or cumula- sure OCHA could provide uninterrupted sertive restrictions on the use of funds. OCHA’s vices until earmarked funding was received.
administrative efficiency is thus enhanced.
Unearmarked funding is critical to ensure
the continuation of OCHA’s operations in
prolonged – and often forgotten – crises
such as the Sahel and Horn of Africa regions,
where conflict, insecurity and the impact of

84

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

FUNDING

climate change affect several million people.
OCHA offices in Cameroon, CAR, Chad, Mali,
Niger and Nigeria used $20.7 million in unearmarked funds, while offices in Eritrea,
Ethiopia and Somalia used an additional $7.3
million. Together these regions accounted
for over a fifth of all unearmarked funding
allocated in 2020.
OCHA’s five regional offices needed $6.7 million in unearmarked funding (5 per cent of
total allocated funding) for their responses
to disasters including Tropical Storm Eta
and Hurricane Iota in Central America, supported by surge staff from ROLAC. Regional
offices provided surge staff deployments
to support emergency response in many
countries including those with an OCHA
office, including Afghanistan, Bangladesh,
Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, CAR, DRC,
Guatemala, Honduras, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon,
Libya, Myanmar, Pakistan, the Philippines
and Turkey (for the Syria crisis), among
others. This would not have been possible
without allocations of unearmarked funding.
In 2020, centrally managed programmes
at headquarters received a third of all unearmarked funding. Essential programmes
that were enabled by unearmarked funding
include standby response tools; IM services,
including the scale-up of remote surge support to the field; HPC expertise; coordinating
IASC partners in preparing and launching the
GHRP for COVID-19; civil-military capability; policy; and advocacy. Their achievements,
along with many other global programmes
described in this report, were possible only
thanks to unearmarked funding.

85

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

The Deputy
Humanitarian
Coordinator in
Venezuela, Samir
Elhawary, engages
with a Venezuelan
returnee at a
temporary shelter
for people who have
recently returned
from Colombia.
Credit: OCHA/Naomi
Frerotte

86

87

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

annexes

ANNEXES

88

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

annexes

Acronyms
AAP Accountability to affected people
CAR Central African Republic
CBi Connecting Business initiative
CBPFs Country-Based Pooled Funds
CERF Central Emergency Response Fund
DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo
ERC Emergency Relief Coordinator
FAO Food and Agriculture Organization
GAM Gender with Age Marker
GBV Gender-based violence
GENCAP Gender Standby Capacity Project
GHRP Global Humanitarian Response Plan
HAT Humanitarian Advisory Team
HC Humanitarian Coordinator
HCT Humanitarian Country Team
HPC Humanitarian Programme Cycle
HRP Humanitarian Response Plan
IAHE Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluation
IASC Inter-Agency Standing Committee
IDP Internally displaced person
IM Information Management
IMO Information Management Officer
INSARAG International Search and Rescue Advisory Group
IOM International Organization for Migration
IPC Integrated Food Security Phase Classification
JPO Junior Professional Officer
MHPSS Mental health and psychosocial support
NGO Non-governmental organization
NSAG Non-State armed group
OCHA United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
ODSG OCHA Donor Support Group
PROCAP Protection Standby Capacity Project
PSEA Preventing sexual exploitation and abuse
RC Resident Coordinator
ROAP Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
ROLAC Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
ROMENA Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa

ROSC Regional Office for the Syria Crisis
ROSEA Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa
ROWCA Regional Office for West and Central Africa
SEA Sexual exploitation and abuse
SGBV Sexual and gender-based violence
UNCT UN Country Team
UNDAC United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination
UNDP United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA United Nations Population Fund
UNHCR Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF United Nations Children’s Fund
UNV United Nations Volunteer
WFP World Food Programme
WHO World Health Organization
XB Extrabudgetary

89

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

ANNExES

ANNExES

OCHA Organization Chart
UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL
FOR HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS AND
EMERGENCY RELIEF COORDINATOR

OPERATIONS &
ADVOCACY DIVISION

OFFICE OF THE
UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL
ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
SENIOR ADVISER ON
INTERNAL DISPLACEMENT
STRATEGIC
COMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Design and Multimedia Unit
Media Relations Section

ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
FOR HUMANITARIAN
AFFAIRS AND DEPUTY
EMERGENCY RELIEF
COORDINATOR

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
STRATEGY, PLANNING, EVALUATION
AND GUIDANCE SECTION
GENDER UNIT

EUROPE, LATIN AMERICA AND
THE CARIBBEAN, ASIA AND
THE PACIFIC
Regional Office for Asia and the
Pacific
Regional Office for Latin America and
the Caribbean
Colombia

Public Advocacy and Campaigns Section

Haiti
Myanmar

COORDINATION
DIVISION
INTER-AGENCY
SUPPORT BRANCH

HUMANITARIAN
FINANCING & RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION DIVISION

OPERATIONS &
ADVOCACY DIVISION

Office of the Pacific Islands

Section
Southern and Eastern Africa

Ukraine

Pakistan
The Philippines

IASC secretariat

POOLED FUNDS
MANAGEMENT BRANCH

Humanitarian Leadership
Strengthening Section

Central Emergency Response
Fund secretariat

System-wide Approaches and
Practices Section

Country-Based Pooled
Funds Section

ASSESSMENT, PLANNING
AND MONITORING
BRANCH

PARTNERSHIPS & RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION BRANCH
Donor Relations Section

Humanitarian-Development
Collaboration Section

Central African Republic

External Relations
and Partnerships Section

Chad

Needs and Response
Analysis Section

Inter-Governmental Policy Section

Monitoring and
Tools Section

Humanitarian Financing Strategy
and Analysis Section

Section
West and Central Africa
Section
Europe, Latin America and the
Caribbean, and Asia Pacific
Section
Middle East and North Africa
Policy Advice and Planning Section
Operations and Advoacy Division
Geneva Section

Venezuela

WEST AND
CENTRAL AFRICA
Regional Office for West and
Central Africa
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon

Democratic Republic of the Congo
Mali
Field offices

SOUTHERN AND
EASTERN AFRICA
Regional Office for Southern and
Eastern Africa
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan

MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA
Regional Office for Middle East and
North Africa
Regional Office for
the Syria Crisis
UN Monitoring Mechanism
for Syria
Iraq
Jordan
Lebanon
Libya
Occupied Palestinian Territorry
Syria
Turkey
Yemen

Niger
Nigeria

RESPONSE SUPPORT
BRANCH
Emergency Response Section
Civil-Military Coordination Service

90

EXECUTIVE
OFFICE

INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT BRANCH

Administrative Oversight Section

Centre for Humanitarian Data

Budget and Finance Section

Digital Services Section

Human Resources Section

Field Information Services Section

Supply Management and Travel Section

Information Services Section

POLICY BRANCH

91

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

annexes

Financial tables
DONOR INCOME OVERVIEW - PAID + PLEDGED
DONORS RANKED BY TOTAL FUNDING IN 2020
(US$ MILLION)
2018

2019

2020

Total

OCHA
programme

CBPFs

CERF

Total

OCHA
programme

CBPFs

CERF

Total

OCHA
programme

CBPFs

CERF

Total

Germany

14.55

175.66

110.20

300.41

16.85%

18.35

167.18

106.00

291.53

14.20%

24.82

223.02

125.33

373.16

21.1%

United Kingdom

35.07

252.97

114.57

402.61

22.58%

30.88

320.23

386.10

737.22

35.90%

35.57

182.83

87.38

305.78

17.3%

Sweden

37.18

93.67

88.20

219.05

12.28%

34.67

89.85

88.94

213.46

10.39%

31.69

69.03

88.83

189.55

10.7%

5.68

81.24

67.90

154.82

8.68%

7.66

62.67

62.50

132.83

6.47%

7.66

75.40

98.79

181.85

10.3%

Norway

15.10

45.79

54.45

115.34

6.47%

14.68

44.62

54.71

114.02

5.55%

14.73

42.69

56.91

114.33

6.5%

Belgium

4.52

45.11

13.57

63.20

3.54%

6.61

48.16

18.95

73.72

3.59%

7.36

52.25

24.28

83.88

4.7%

Denmark

4.97

40.54

21.62

67.13

3.76%

4.57

46.04

25.81

76.43

3.72%

10.68

33.99

30.79

75.46

4.3%

Canada

9.44

14.77

22.53

46.74

2.62%

10.06

19.94

22.53

52.53

2.56%

10.52

36.73

22.53

69.79

4.0%

51.21

34.00

-

85.21

4.78%

54.99

31.25

-

86.24

4.20%

50.20

10.00

-

60.20

3.4%

Switzerland

6.68

20.80

6.24

33.72

1.89%

6.92

23.67

6.91

37.51

1.83%

7.88

28.16

24.04

60.08

3.4%

Ireland

3.81

46.85

14.25

64.91

3.64%

3.72

35.47

11.39

50.58

2.46%

4.28

35.23

11.42

50.93

2.9%

Australia

8.24

16.25

8.18

32.67

1.83%

7.22

15.24

8.21

30.67

1.49%

7.22

13.78

8.18

29.18

1.7%

Netherlands

United States *

Finland

3.79

-

8.64

12.43

0.70%

2.81

-

8.98

11.78

0.57%

2.81

1.17

15.46

19.44

1.1%

Korea,
Republic of

1.70

5.30

4.00

11.00

0.62%

1.70

7.80

5.00

14.50

0.71%

2.20

11.05

5.82

19.07

1.1%

France

1.21

6.60

-

7.81

0.44%

3.36

11.48

-

14.84

0.72%

3.53

12.94

1.14

17.61

1.0%

European
Commission

16.74

-

-

16.74

0.94%

14.63

-

-

14.63

0.71%

12.84

4.40

-

17.24

1.0%

Qatar

10.00

3.47

1.00

14.47

0.81%

10.00

3.50

1.00

14.50

0.71%

10.36

5.20

1.00

16.56

0.9%

Italy **

0.59

2.88

2.96

6.42

0.36%

1.10

5.54

3.93

10.57

0.51%

0.75

9.10

5.50

15.34

0.9%

New Zealand

3.46

0.67

2.20

6.33

0.35%

3.42

2.34

2.04

7.80

0.38%

3.42

3.49

8.34

15.24

0.9%

Luxembourg

1.01

2.96

4.94

8.91

0.50%

0.98

3.57

5.47

10.02

0.49%

0.99

4.15

5.47

10.60

0.6%

Spain

2.72

2.54

3.49

8.74

0.49%

3.58

3.18

3.41

10.17

0.50%

4.15

2.87

3.41

10.43

0.6%

United
Arab Emirates

4.62

25.00

1.50

31.12

1.75%

1.75

-

5.00

6.75

0.33%

2.00

-

5.00

7.00

0.4%

Japan

6.07

-

1.36

7.43

0.42%

5.82

0.40

0.68

6.90

0.34%

5.65

-

0.26

5.92

0.3%

Austria

0.67

-

-

0.67

0.04%

1.20

-

-

1.20

0.06%

1.32

-

1.22

2.54

0.1%

Russian
Federation

1.00

-

1.50

2.50

0.14%

0.97

-

1.50

2.47

0.12%

1.00

-

1.50

2.50

0.1%

Iceland

-

-

-

-

-

0.21

0.41

0.47

1.09

0.05%

0.50

0.96

0.71

2.17

0.1%

Poland

0.52

-

-

0.52

0.03%

0.51

0.50

-

1.01

0.05%

0.75

-

0.25

1.00

0.1%

Turkey

0.50

-

0.40

0.90

0.05%

0.50

-

0.40

0.90

0.04%

0.50

-

0.45

0.95

0.1%

Estonia

0.63

-

0.12

0.75

0.04%

0.58

0.06

0.11

0.75

0.04%

0.58

0.24

0.11

0.93

0.1%

21.60

25.00

0.15

46.75

2.62%

15.97

-

0.15

16.12

0.78%

0.50

-

0.15

0.65

0.0%

1.60

7.55

4.60

13.74

0.77%

0.97

5.54

4.44

10.95

0.53%

0.81

3.02

4.78

8.61

0.5%

274.86

949.62

558.58

1,783.05

270.38

948.66

834.64

2,053.68

267.3

861.70

639.0

Saudi Arabia
Non ODSG
GRAND TOTAL

100%

100%

1,768.0

100%

Totals include paid and pledged contributions.

92

Note: CBPF MPTF; source is GMS based on actual cash received while CBPF OCHA, source is OCT based on pledge value.
*Figures different from those published in previous annual reports, due to cancellation of 2018 pledge ($127,651) and 2019 pledge ($123,980) in 2020.
**Including the transfer of $137,459 from Italy’s pre-positioned fund to OCHA Mali office.

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

annexes

PROGRAMME INCOME
2020 OCHA PROGRAMME DONOR INCOME (US$)
Donor

Earmarked

Softly Earmarked

Unearmarked

Total

United States

42,299,651

4,400,000

3,500,000

50,199,651

United Kingdom

Totals include paid and pledged
contributions.
* Including the transfer of $137,459

3,184,027

-

32,386,889

35,570,916

Sweden

10,632,780

726,141

20,329,553

31,688,474

to OCHA Mali office

Germany

13,699,888

5,599,104

5,518,764

24,817,756

** Funding received from UPS

Norway

3,692,344

584,966

10,456,297

14,733,608

Foundation and Mainichi

11,662,981

1,177,856

-

12,840,838

Shimbun

10,682,130

European Commission
Denmark

-

-

10,682,130

3,173,418

5,826,969

1,524,390

10,524,777

357,995

-

10,000,000

10,357,995

Switzerland

5,753,817

-

2,125,399

7,879,215

Netherlands

-

-

7,658,643

7,658,643

Belgium

-

-

7,355,243

7,355,243
7,215,007

Canada
Qatar

Australia
Japan
Ireland
Spain

-

721,501

6,493,506

3,880,833

909,090

861,818

5,651,741

639,817

-

3,638,570

4,278,387

643,275

3,508,772

-

4,152,047

1,103,753

-

2,428,256

3,532,009

New Zealand

-

-

3,415,301

3,415,301

Finland

-

-

2,805,836

2,805,836

France

Korea, Republic of

200,000

-

2,000,000

2,200,000

United Arab Emirates

500,000

-

1,500,000

2,000,000

1,216,545

-

107,059

1,323,604

-

-

1,000,000

1,000,000

Luxembourg

113,636

-

873,680

987,316

Poland

748,390

-

-

748,390

Austria
Russian Federation

Italy *

745,731

-

-

745,731

Estonia

303,532

110,375

165,563

579,470
500,000

Iceland

-

-

500,000

Saudi Arabia

-

-

500,000

500,000

Turkey

-

-

500,000

500,000

Romania

303,398

-

-

303,398

Greece

220,751

-

-

220,751

46,948

-

-

46,948

Portugal
Monaco

-

-

33,076

33,076

China

-

-

30,000

30,000

Malta

-

27,594

-

27,594

Latvia

-

23,895

-

23,895

Singapore

-

-

20,000

20,000

Malaysia

15,000

-

-

15,000

Kazakhstan

10,000

-

-

23,616,263

138,409,972

Subtotal

105,148,510

10,000
267,174,746

Private Donations**

78,637

-

-

78,637

Subtotal

78,637

-

-

78,637

105,227,147

23,616,263

138,409,972

TOTAL 2020

from Italy’s pre-positioned fund

267,253,383

93

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

ANNExES

ANNExES

TOP 20 DONORS
VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS – BREAKDOWN OF TOP 20 DONOR EARMARKING IN 2020 (US$)
Finland

Korea,
Republic of

Others**

GRAND
TOTAL

3,415,301

2,805,836

2,000,000

5,229,378

138,409,972

1,103,753

-

-

200,000

4,464,432

128,843,410

-

-

-

-

-

75,000

22,171,709

526,180

4,152,047

1,103,753

-

-

200,000

4,389,432

106,671,702

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

United States

United
Kingdom

Sweden

Germany

Norway

European
Commission

Denmark

Canada

Qatar

Switzerland

Netherlands

Belgium

Australia

Japan

Ireland

Spain

3,500,000

32,386,889

20,329,553

5,518,764

10,456,297

-

10,682,130

1,524,390

10,000,000

2,125,399

7,658,643

7,355,243

6,493,506

861,818

3,638,570

-

2,428,256

46,699,651

3,184,027

11,358,921

19,298,992

4,277,310

12,840,838

-

9,000,387

357,995

5,753,817

-

-

721,501

4,789,923

639,817

4,152,047

HEADQUARTER

11,630,000

-

-

6,752,803

742,210

-

-

446,145

357,995

2,053,919

-

-

-

-

113,636

FIELD

35,069,651

3,184,027

11,358,921

12,546,190

3,535,101

12,840,838

-

8,554,242

-

3,699,897

-

-

721,501

4,789,923

-

-

-

Office
UNEARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS
EARMARKED AND
SOFTLY EARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS

REGIONAL OFFICES
Regional Office for Asia
and the Pacific
Regional Office for Latin
America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Southern
and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for the
Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for West and
Central Africa

COUNTRY OFFICES
Africa

Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Central African Republic

-

-

-

1,018,182

-

-

-

-

577,201

320,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,641,523

1,500,000

-

103,734

-

-

-

-

581,818

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,185,553

1,000,000

-

207,469

555,556

-

327,511

-

1,018,182

-

-

-

-

-

50,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

46,948

3,205,666

1,000,000

-

207,469

-

-

-

-

363,636

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

10,000

1,581,105

1,000,000

-

414,938

-

-

-

-

945,455

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,360,392

5,500,000

-

1,659,751

555,556

-

327,511

-

3,927,273

-

-

-

-

577,201

370,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

56,948

12,974,239

29,569,651

3,184,027

9,699,170

11,990,634

-

12,513,327

-

4,626,969

-

3,699,897

-

-

144,300

4,419,923

526,180

4,152,047

1,103,753

-

-

200,000

4,332,484

93,697,463

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,505,743

700,000

-

-

584,795

-

111,857

-

109,091

-

-

-

-

207,469

555,556

-

282,805

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,045,830

750,000

-

518,672

555,556

-

709,067

-

109,091

-

513,875

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,156,260

2,000,000

-

829,876

586,854

189,251

549,451

-

218,182

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

701,754

-

-

-

-

-

5,075,367

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,206,793

-

414,938

-

-

791,855

-

-

-

-

311,203

1,123,737

713,793

1,103,753

-

727,273

-

-

-

-

-

400,000

-

701,754

-

-

-

-

-

6,081,514

Ethiopia

1,200,000

2,574,271

103,734

568,828

-

-

-

72,727

-

513,875

-

-

-

-

305,430

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,338,865

700,000

-

518,672

568,182

104,635

-

-

145,455

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

200,000

914,555

3,151,499

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

60,680

2,453,093

750,000

-

518,672

584,795

104,635

434,311

-

-

-

-

Nigeria

1,500,000

-

518,672

1,155,726

473,126

545,852

-

181,818

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

701,754

-

-

-

-

3,637

5,080,586

Somalia

1,500,000

609,756

726,141

568,182

189,251

551,876

-

109,091

-

513,875

-

-

-

477,036

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,245,207

South Sudan

3,734,020

-

829,876

568,182

473,126

814,332

-

181,818

-

256,937

-

-

-

400,000

-

701,754

-

-

-

-

1,216,545

9,176,591

Sudan

Myanmar
Office for the Pacific Islands

Asia and the
Pacific Total
Central Asia, Pakistan
Afghanistan
and Afghanistan
Central Asia, Pakistan
and Afghanistan Total
Ukraine

2,900,000

-

259,336

586,854

-

1,085,776

-

145,455

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

701,754

-

-

-

-

279,094

5,958,270

16,734,020

3,184,027

5,757,261

8,007,248

2,247,818

6,980,934

-

2,000,000

-

1,798,561

-

-

-

1,277,036

305,430

3,508,772

1,103,753

-

-

200,000

2,474,511

54,475,618

400,000

-

207,469

-

-

327,511

-

145,455

-

-

-

-

-

-

103,734

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

144,300

400,000

-

311,203

-

-

327,511

-

145,455

-

-

-

-

144,300

1,100,000

-

829,876

-

97,494

1,760,176

145,455

-

1,100,000

-

829,876

-

97,494

1,760,176

145,455

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,139,524

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

248,035

59,090

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,387,559

804,636

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,737,636

804,636

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,737,636

103,734

-

189,251

167,973

72,727

-

513,875

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

828,845

2,845,036

-

103,734

-

189,251

167,973

-

72,727

-

513,875

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

828,845

2,845,036

Colombia

767,000

-

207,469

-

-

339,367

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

233,918

-

-

-

-

-

1,547,754

Haiti

300,000

-

-

-

-

65,646

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

365,646

Venezuela support
Latin America and the
Caribbean Total
Middle East, Northern &
Iraq
Central Asia
Libya
OPT
Syria *
United Arab Emirates
Yemen

968,631

-

59,090

968,631

Europe Total

GRAND TOTAL
94

-

-

Africa Total

Middle East, Northern &
Central Asia Total

726,141

1,000,000

Niger

Latin America and
the Caribbean

-

Democratic Republic
of the Congo

Mali

Europe

1,000,000

-

Chad

Asia and the Pacific

France New Zealand

-

-

207,469

-

-

220,022

-

-

-

256,937

-

-

-

-

-

409,357

-

-

-

-

-

1,093,785

1,067,000

-

414,938

-

-

625,034

-

-

-

256,937

-

-

-

-

-

643,275

-

-

-

-

-

3,007,184

1,300,000

-

311,203

568,182

-

549,451

-

1,405,775

-

-

-

-

-

545,454

-

-

-

-

-

-

70,188

4,750,252

500,000

-

311,203

-

-

272,926

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,084,129

-

-

311,203

1,103,753

-

651,466

-

363,636

-

513,875

-

-

-

410,981

220,751

-

-

-

-

-

55,188

3,630,852

4,000,000

-

726,141

1,175,088

584,966

1,177,856

-

493,921

-

616,650

-

-

-

959,090

-

-

1,103,753

-

-

-

331,126

11,168,591

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

500,000

500,000

3,500,000

-

622,407

1,136,364

415,572

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

363,636

-

-

-

-

-

-

72,627

6,110,605

9,300,000

-

2,282,158

3,983,386

1,000,538

2,651,698

-

2,263,332

-

1,130,524

-

-

-

2,279,161

220,751

-

1,103,753

-

-

-

1,029,128

27,244,430

50,199,651

35,570,916

31,688,474

24,817,756

14,733,608

12,840,838

10,682,130

10,524,777

10,357,995

7,879,215

7,658,643

7,355,243

7,215,007

5,651,741

4,278,387

4,152,047

3,532,009

3,415,301

2,805,836

2,200,000

9,693,810

267,253,383

*Total for Syria includes funding to the following offices: Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, as well as funding to the Syria RHC.

**Including the transfer of $137,459 from Italy’s pre-positioned fund to OCHA Mali office.

95

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

annexes

ALLOCATION OF UNEARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS

ALLOCATION OF UNEARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2020 (US$)
HEADQUARTER

47,173,614

FIELD

85,709,209

REGIONAL OFFICE
Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific

1,562,079

Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean

1,215,791

Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa

1,491,749

Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa

1,083,914

Regional Office for West and Central Africa

1,331,609

AFRICA
Burkina Faso
Burundi

52,160
742,793

Cameroon

1,414,492

Central African Republic

6,018,009

Chad

4,228,135

Democratic Republic of Congo

12,906,995

Eritrea

860,713

Ethiopia

669,778

Mali

3,609,087

Niger

2,076,880

Nigeria

3,323,965

Somalia

5,776,001

South Sudan

5,643,230

Sudan

3,297,222

ALL FIELD
Field surge
Investigating allegations of SEA involving implementing partners

472,079
36,549

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Myanmar

3,412,300

Office for the Pacific Islands

1,103,965

Pakistan
Philippines
Yemen
Central Asia, Pakistan and Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Pakistan
EUROPE
Ukraine

337,139
1,400,668
499,121
7,173,701
6,684,599
55,996
370,821
370,821

LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Haiti
Venezuela support

929,545
1,967,766

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Iraq

2,568,412

Libya

2,775,644

Occupied Palestinian Territory

3,612,714

Syria

1,015,314

Syria OCHA Operation in Jordan

565,568

Syria OCHA Operation in Lebanon

231,939

United Arab Emirates

175,123

Syria, Regional Office for the Syria Crisis (ROSC)
Total allocated in 2020
With flexible implementation carried through 2021
GRAND TOTAL

96

245,339
132,882,823
23,318,008
156,200,832

Note: The difference of $17.8M, between
unearmarked income of 2020 ($138.4M) and
unearmarked cash that was available for 2020
($156.2M) is due to: 1) exchange loss (between
pledged amount and cash received amount), 2)
donor pledged but not paid yet, 3) 2019 pledge
but cash received in 2020 and 4) carry over
from 2019.

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

annexes

FINANCIAL STATUS

OCHA FINANCIAL STATUS AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2020 (US$)

OCHA-Mandated Programme
and Administrative Activities

Programme
Activities (a.)

CBPF Humanitarian
Financing Units (b.)

Total Trust fund excluding
CBPF grants-out (a+b)

Administrative
Activities

Regular
Budget

Opening Balance - 1 Jan 2020

182,899,123

5,458,942

188,358,065

-

-

2020 Donor Contributions for
Programme Activities1

267,253,383

15,503,636

282,757,018

-

-

2020 Income for Administrative Activities
(Transfer of Programme Support Charges)2

-

-

-

35,569,896

-

2020 Allocation for Regular Budget

-

-

-

-

18,063,100

450,152,505

20,962,577

471,115,083

35,569,896

18,063,100

-17,205,108

-1,477,065

-18,682,173

-254,575,683

-21,074,547

-275,650,230

-34,382,153

-17,000,708

Total Expenditure Charged against

-271,780,791

-22,551,612

-294,332,403

-34,382,153

-17,000,708

Net Available Funds before Other Income,
adjustments, transfers, refunds

178,371,714

-1,589,034

176,782,680

1,187,743

1,062,392

12,867,009

13,312,737

26,179,746

-

-

191,238,723

11,723,702

202,962,426

-

-

Increase / (Decrease) in opening balance

8,339,601

6,264,761

14,604,361

-

-

AVAILABLE BALANCE FOR SPENDING

191,238,723

11,723,702

202,962,426

-

-

Available Funds
Transfer of Programme Support Charges (PSC)
Direct Expenditure

3

4

Other income, adjustments, transfers, refunds
Closing Balance

5

1

For programme activities, includes paid contributions and unpaid pledges $5.06M.

2

Transfer of PSC for Administrative Activities, includes PSC levied from programme activities, CBPFs, and Specially Designated Contributions as well.

3

Includes disbursements and unliquidated obligations as at 31 December 2020.

For programme activities, expenditure charged against budget is the direct programme expenditure plus programme support transfers. For administrative and regular budget
activities, it is the direct expenditure only.
4

As of June 2015, PSC balances have been consolidated under one single PSC account for all Volume 1 entities under the Central Control of the UN Controller.

5

Note: CERF PSC is not included since 2019 CERF PSC opening balance is not yet confirmed by UNHQ.

IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS
IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)
Entity

Description

UNHCR

Technical assistance/expert services

109,650

US$
112,365

FAO

Technical assistance/expert services

WFP

Technical assistance/expert services

84,102

German Academic Exchange Service

Technical assistance/expert services

32,886

Government, International Humanitarian City Dubai - UAE

Office Space

44,4866

ADRC, Kobe, Japan

Office Space

45,506

Government - Almaty, Kazakhstan

Office Space

9,000

Government - Tbilisi, Georgia

Office Space

15,000

IOM - Mosul, Iraq

Office Space

1,800

Government - Dushanbe, Tajikistan

Office Space

11,000

Government - Beirut, Lebanon

Office Space

165,3017

Government - Mishref, Kuwait

Office Space

21,300

6

Currency = AED

7

UN Habitat: $94,350 & UNDP: $70,951

97

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

annexes

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE
OCHA BUDGET AND
EXPENDITURE IN 2020 (US$)
REGULAR BUDGET ACTIVITIES

Extrabudgetary Administrative Activities

Mandated Programme Activities
Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

17,280,400

16,777,654

17,000,708

101%

-

-

-

-

610,627
687,206
1,920,313
21,715,886
420,888

574,996
691,188
2,032,207
24,344,059
415,538

333,890
680,948
1,988,583
24,145,168
392,341

58%
99%
98%
99%
0%
94%

9,206,440
10,489,099
-

8,488,037
11,280,174
-

8,473,580
11,097,321
-

100%
98%
-

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES
HEADQUARTERS
OFFICE OF USG
OFFICE OF ASG
CENTRAL COSTS
COORDINATION
EXECUTIVE OFFICE
GENDER
HUMANITARIAN FINANCING AND RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION DIVISION
IDP
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
OPERATIONS AND ADVOCACY
ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
POLICY
STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS
STRATEGY, PLANNING AND EVALUATION

7,668,607

7,329,212

7,200,636

98%

11,467,120

11,774,671

11,768,395

100%

3,652,964
9,097,057
11,044,401
650,000
1,026,276
4,464,718

2,478,004
9,360,205
11,572,668
555,472
996,348
4,765,979

2,342,244
9,240,258
11,524,550
554,145
641,566
4,731,598

95%
99%
100%
100%
64%
99%

3,545,736
-

3,165,512
-

3,044,444
-

96%
-

1,813,075

1,553,315

1,418,065

91%

-

-

-

-

HEADQUARTERS Total
FIELD

64,772,017

66,669,191

65,193,989

98%

34,708,395

34,708,394

34,383,740

99%

REGIONAL OFFICES

25,169,967

19,832,918

19,784,049

100%

-

-

-

-

5,923,987
4,554,965
5,494,000
3,758,016
5,439,000

5,267,135
3,420,420
4,697,792
2,666,857
3,780,714

5,257,940
3,401,043
4,691,353
2,654,689
3,779,024

100%
99%
100%
100%
100%

-

-

-

-

COUNTRY OFFICES

172,758,909

185,259,858

184,385,428

100%

-

-

-

-

AFRICA
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Mali
Niger
Nigeria
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Myanmar
Office for the Pacific Islands
Philippines
CENTRAL ASIA, PAKISTAN AND AFGHANISTAN
Afghanistan

95,090,535
1,300,000
1,808,000
3,925,552
10,500,647
5,011,006
16,631,554
895,000
5,926,000
5,767,000
4,498,463
8,518,911
9,086,057
11,892,345
9,330,000
6,688,121
4,307,110
1,381,000
1,000,010
10,511,576
9,949,691
561,885
3,725,457
3,725,457
5,404,944
1,366,000
1,089,447
2,949,497
50,986,349
7,481,000
4,792,006
6,645,000
6,724,781
1,794,000
2,116,000
3,229,288
3,609,023
915,250
13,680,000
351,926
351,926
185,943,373

102,453,894
1,796,984
1,772,321
4,457,692
11,060,779
5,303,872
18,758,491
866,440
6,006,111
6,214,715
4,479,176
8,184,415
11,001,598
13,504,395
9,046,905
7,273,654
4,491,322
1,367,724
1,414,608
12,322,963
11,204,883
1,118,080
3,273,768
3,273,768
5,257,790
1,194,054
1,404,484
2,659,252
54,206,885
7,250,246
3,829,965
7,184,044
6,113,552
1,434,139
2,186,627
3,202,376
3,436,285
677,535
18,892,116
470,904
470,904
194,689,750

102,284,883
1,788,223
1,763,420
4,447,051
11,059,037
5,298,635
18,744,813
860,263
6,005,558
6,208,008
4,466,078
8,160,648
10,944,826
13,468,347
9,069,977
7,233,767
4,487,775
1,347,591
1,398,402
12,244,168
11,152,002
1,092,166
3,260,049
3,260,049
5,218,712
1,176,588
1,396,252
2,645,872
53,673,384
7,240,381
3,810,756
7,177,115
6,109,108
1,426,730
2,184,977
3,195,664
3,357,329
677,474
18,493,850
470,465
470,465
193,020,725

100%
100%
99%
100%
100%
100%
100%
99%
100%
100%
100%
100%
99%
100%
100%
99%
100%
99%
99%
99%
100%
98%
100%
100%
99%
99%
99%
99%
99%
100%
99%
100%
100%
99%
100%
100%
98%
100%
98%
100%
100%
99%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for West and Central Africa

Pakistan
EUROPE
Ukraine
LATIN AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN
Colombia
Haiti
Venezuela support
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Iraq
Libya
Occupied Palestinian Territory
Syria
Syria OCHA Operation in Jordan
Syria OCHA Operation in Lebanon
Syria OCHA Operation in Turkey
Syria, Regional Office for the Syria Crisis (ROSC)
United Arab Emirates
Yemen
OAD FRONT OFFICE
Field surge
FIELD Total

98

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

annexes

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES

34,708,395 34,708,394 34,383,740

99%

262,700,893

271,761,967

269,363,466

99%

29,723,280

30,920,226

22,551,612

73%

-

-

-

-

Afghanistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

2,241,928

2,386,319

2,009,507

84%

-

-

-

-

Central African Republic - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

1,649,867

1,649,867

1,635,694

99%

-

-

-

-

-

-

586

0%

-

-

-

-

4,301,931
1,302,408
1,365,500
492,417
535,878
572,792
1,884,304
498,711
228,174
2,009,638
2,387,200
2,257,040
1,450,288
2,414,523
527,696
3,602,984

4,719,744
1,356,765
1,387,454
498,641
545,314
581,020
1,823,633
512,005
228,174
2,043,642
2,421,483
2,282,534
1,474,026
3,173,769
521,035
192,248
3,122,553

2,566,579
1,106,531
1,173,167
430,262
459,535
355,549
1,105,145
480,657
165,272
1,778,486
2,130,379
1,215,003
580,200
1,949,758
407,231
29,083
2,972,990

54%
82%
85%
86%
84%
61%
61%
94%
72%
87%
88%
53%
39%
61%
78%
15%
95%

-

-

-

-

4,152,497

4,152,497

2,516,704

61%

-

-

-

0%

-

-

-99,380

0%

-

-

-1,587

0%

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES INCLUDING CBPF, ONE-OFF
DECENTRALIZATION, DORMANT AND OTHERS TOTAL

296,576,670

306,834,690

294,332,403

96%

34,708,395

34,708,394

34,382,153

99%

TOTAL OCHA ACTIVITIES (REGULAR BUDGET AND
EXTRABUDGETARY)

313,857,070 323,612,344 311,333,111

96%

34,708,395

34,708,394

34,382,153

99%

CBPF MANAGEMENT UNITS

Colombia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
DRC - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Ethiopia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Iraq - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Jordan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Lebanon - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Myanmar - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Nigeria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
OPT - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Pakistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Somalia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
South Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Syria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Turkey - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Ukraine - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Venezuela - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Yemen - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
ONE-OFF DECENTRALIZATION COSTS
DORMANT ACCOUNTS AND OTHERS

99

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

annexes

DONOR RANKING SORTED BY (TOTAL)

DONOR RANKING FOR PROGRAMMATIC ACTIVITIES
Donor

OCHA Programme

Pass-through contributions

Total

United States

50,199,651

2,566,287

52,765,938

United Kingdom

35,570,915

184,275

35,755,190
32,310,878

MEMBER STATES

Sweden

31,688,472

622,406

Germany

24,817,754

1,411,765

26,229,519

Norway

14,733,608

1,462,416

16,196,024

European Commission

12,840,836

-

12,840,836

Denmark

10,682,130

73,779

10,755,909

Canada

10,524,778

75,988

10,600,766

Qatar

10,357,995

-

10,357,995

Netherlands

7,658,643

1,310,000

8,968,643

Switzerland

7,879,218

531,350

8,410,568
7,472,614

Belgium

7,355,243

117,371

Australia

7,215,007

-

7,215,007

Japan

5,651,741

11,837

5,663,578

Ireland

4,278,388

-

4,278,388

Spain

4,152,045

-

4,152,045

France

3,532,009

-

3,532,009

New Zealand

3,415,301

-

3,415,301

Finland

2,805,836

-

2,805,836

Korea, Republic of

2,200,000

-

2,200,000

United Arab Emirates

2,000,000

-

2,000,000

Austria

1,323,604

-

1,323,604

Russian Federation

1,000,000

1,000,000

-

Luxembourg

987,316

-

987,316

Poland

748,390

-

748,390

Italy¹

745,732

-

745,732

Estonia

579,471

22,222

601,693

Iceland

500,000

-

500,000

Saudi Arabia

500,000

-

500,000

Turkey

500,000

-

500,000

Romania

303,399

-

303,399

Greece

220,751

-

220,751

China

30,000

50,000

80,000

Portugal

46,948

-

46,948

Monaco

33,076

-

33,076

Brazil

-

27,699

27,699

Malta

27,594

-

27,594

Latvia

23,894

-

23,894

Singapore

20,000

-

20,000

Malaysia

15,000

-

15,000

Kazakhstan

10,000

-

10,000

City of The Hague

-

493,949

493,949

FAO

-

75,000

75,000

IMC Worldwide Limited

-

38,610

38,610
19,404

OTHERS

Institute of Development Studies
Mainichi Shimbun, Japan
The Rockefeller Foundation
UNICEF
UPS Foundation
TOTAL

1

Including the transfers from Italy’s pre-positioned fund.

100

-

19,404

3,637

-

3,637

-

500,000

500,000
250,000

-

250,000

75,000

-

75,000

267,253,382

9,844,358

277,097,740

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

annexes

CERF CONTRIBUTIONS

2020 DONOR INCOME TO CERF (US$)
DONOR
Germany
Netherlands

AMOUNT
125,326,699
98,788,057

Sweden

88,826,881

United Kingdom

87,376,696

Norway

56,910,952

Denmark

30,787,345

Belgium

24,282,561

Switzerland

24,038,748

Canada

22,528,736

Finland

15,460,252

Ireland

11,415,525

New Zealand

8,338,312

Australia

8,184,524

Korea, Republic of

5,823,817

Italy

5,500,550

Luxembourg

5,470,460

United Arab Emirates

5,000,000

Spain

3,409,091

Russian Federation

1,500,000

Austria

1,216,545

France

1,137,656

Kuwait

1,000,000

Qatar

1,000,000

Iceland

708,324

China

500,000

Turkey

450,000

Japan

263,636

Poland

254,453

Indonesia

220,000

Liechtenstein

200,200

Portugal

192,519

Saudi Arabia

150,000

Estonia

111,111

Monaco

111,111

Turkmenistan

100,000

South Africa

85,305

Morocco

50,000

Philippines

50,000

Singapore

50,000

Andorra

41,347

Slovenia

35,253

Bangladesh

20,000

Cambodia

20,000

Thailand

20,000

Cyprus

16,502

Iran, Islamic Republic of

10,000

Mongolia

10,000

Myanmar

10,000

Pakistan

10,000

Sri Lanka

10,000

Viet Nam

10,000

Armenia

5,000

Montenegro

3,282

Guyana

3,000

Peru

2,936

Bhutan

1,500

Subtotal
Regional and local authorities
Others
Subtotal
GRAND TOTAL

637,048,884
1,902,543
96,653
1,999,197
639,048,081

101

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

ANNExES

ANNExES

CBPFs CONTRIBUTIONS

OCHA-managed
Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office managed

COUNTRY-BASED POOLED FUNDS: CONTRIBUTIONS BY DONOR AND FUND IN 2020 (US$)

OCHA-managed
Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office managed

Recipient
Donor
Germany

Afghanistan

CAR1

DRC2

Ethiopia

Iraq

Jordan

Lebanon

Myanmar

Nigeria

OPT6

Pakistan

Somalia

South Sudan

Syria
Cross-border

Sudan

Syria

Ukraine

Venezuela

Yemen

TOTAL

5,038,556

11,340,949

13,067,142

19,244,116

9,496,688

3,348,023

6,829,323

1,645,687

12,289,431

13,821,818

3,438,718

16,149,152

16,442,218

12,619,020

44,493,846

2,805,135

4,479,147

-

26,470,588

223,019,555

29,010,900

7,426,800

4,025,700

15,151,515

4,675,902

2,484,472

-

1,930,502

-

-

5,663,135

4,644,600

8,962,450

37,386,680

33,638,848

12,670,227

-

2,403,204

12,755,102

182,830,037

Netherlands

4,311,804

1,847,735

10,256,650

-

-

-

-

-

5,090,498

-

-

6,050,849

11,210,196

4,311,804

13,138,563

3,846,154

-

-

15,340,582

75,404,834

Sweden

5,905,470

1,527,277

9,942,376

4,870,971

1,036,377

1,554,565

1,554,565

829,101

2,074,689

3,185,596

-

3,563,646

5,040,013

5,600,015

9,487,958

4,145,507

518,188

-

8,195,021

69,031,335

Belgium

-

-

10,031,471

-

4,343,105

-

5,109,273

-

5,428,882

4,343,105

-

-

2,360,346

-

7,600,434

7,600,434

-

-

5,428,882

52,245,932

Norway

1,613,062

-

1,076,724

1,038,929

-

-

-

-

2,890,467

946,253

-

4,718,937

6,438,317

2,105,048

8,348,693

7,507,068

790,990

-

5,215,264

42,689,752

Canada

2,743,089

1,445,083

4,575,744

2,878,524

744,816

729,927

-

1,522,574

646,088

-

717,875

2,507,032

1,444,227

1,731,531

2,644,539

5,229,117

1,003,586

1,078,582

5,090,909

36,733,242

Ireland

531,776

3,230,376

3,190,776

4,379,315

1,102,536

-

2,592,890

-

1,091,703

448,497

-

3,204,276

2,136,176

3,190,776

2,828,054

-

-

597,372

6,707,422

35,231,945

United Kingdom

-

-

-

3,209,758

-

-

2,254,622

-

-

-

-

2,979,554

4,462,703

2,172,064

8,850,841

4,441,812

-

-

5,617,076

33,988,430

Switzerland

Denmark

2,099,900

1,911,854

-

1,595,735

1,062,699

-

1,003,009

1,605,825

2,129,687

3,134,028

-

2,052,510

1,049,316

2,157,064

3,155,948

2,125,399

-

489,130

2,585,315

28,157,419

Australia

5,864,837

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,089,791

-

-

-

1,306,309

2,522,591

-

-

-

-

-

-

13,783,527

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

12,941,712

-

-

-

-

12,941,712

2,500,000

200,000

500,000

200,000

-

-

-

300,000

500,000

300,000

-

300,000

500,000

550,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

400,000

800,000

2,000,000

11,050,000

-

-

-

8,000,000

-

-

-

2,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

10,000,000

Italy

-

579,345

-

613,497

597,372

880,282

1,184,834

-

-

586,854

-

-

-

579,345

2,275,313

1,184,834

613,497

-

-

9,095,172

Qatar

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

1,000,000

-

200,000

-

-

-

-

-

3,000,000

-

-

-

-

5,200,000

France
Korea, Republic of
United States

European Commission

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,301,500

-

-

-

1,100,110

-

-

4,401,610

Luxembourg

414,333

414,333

414,333

-

414,692

-

-

414,692

414,692

-

-

-

414,333

-

-

414,692

414,692

-

414,692

4,145,483

New Zealand

-

-

-

1,134,890

-

-

-

1,134,890

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,219,512

-

-

-

-

3,489,292

Spain

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

350,877

701,754

-

-

-

-

-

1,754,386

-

58,480

-

2,865,497

Finland

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,169,591

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,169,591

Iceland

235,183

-

-

-

-

-

351,167

-

-

170,242

-

-

-

-

-

205,829

-

-

-

962,422

Estonia

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

181,391

-

-

55,188

-

-

236,579

Slovakia

-

-

-

-

-

-

117,647

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

117,647

Lithuania

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

114,815

114,815

Bulgaria

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

54,289

-

54,585

108,874

Malaysia

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

100,000

100,000

Cyprus

-

-

-

-

-

12,500

12,500

-

-

24,447

-

-

-

-

-

12,500

-

-

27,594

89,541

50,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

50,000

Greece

Kazakhstan

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

35,253

35,253

Malta

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

33,113

33,113

Azerbaijan

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

25,000

25,000

Philippines

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

10,000

10,000

-

373,014

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

261,780

-

-

327,225

962,019

3,091

3,333

20,814

9,156

9,648

98

312

39,452

6,898

3,461

9

23,135

17,899

2,913

180

23,974

254

-

212,888

377,513

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

33,113,910

28,835,647

9,819,737

47,499,999

66,302,284

72,587,650

154,624,443

55,228,848

9,429,941

5,426,768

96,761,324

861,697,139

Jersey
Private Donations³
UN, NGOs and
other entities4
GRAND TOTAL (US$)

60,322,001

30,300,096

57,101,728

62,326,407

23,483,834

10,009,867

22,010,143

16,512,514

Totals include paid and pledged contributions.
Note: CBPF MPTF; source is GMS based on actual cash received while CBPF OCHA, source is OCT based on pledge value.
1

6

Occupied Palestinian Territory

Central African Republic

2

Democratic Republic of the Congo

3

Includes funds received through UNF

4

Includes funds received UNOPS

102

103

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

unocha.org
reliefweb.int
@unocha | @UNReliefChief
facebook.com/UNOCHA

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

