OCHA

UNITED NATIONS OFFICE
FOR THE COORDINATION OF
HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS

ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Credits
This document is produced by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs (OCHA). OCHA wishes to acknowledge the contributions of its committed staff at
headquarters and in the field in preparing this document.
Front and back cover
Rand Zakkar, a staff member from the Syria Humanitarian Fund, talks to children in rural
Hama, Syria. Credit: OCHA/Basma Ourfali.
Editing and Graphic Design
OCHA
For additional information, please contact:
Donor Relations Section
ocha.donor.relations@un.org
United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
Palais des Nations, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland
The designations employed and the presentation of material in this publication do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations
concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or
concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

﻿

OCHA THANKS ITS DONORS FOR THEIR GENEROUS
SUPPORT TO ITS ACTIVITIES IN 2021

MEMBER STATES
ALGERIA

ANDORRA

ARMENIA

AUSTRALIA

AUSTRIA

AZERBAIJAN

BANGLADESH

BELGIUM

BHUTAN

BRUNEI
DARUSSALAM

CANADA

CHINA

CROATIA

CYPRUS

CZECHIA

DENMARK

ESTONIA

FIJI

FINLAND

FRANCE

GERMANY

GREECE

ICELAND

IRELAND

ITALY

JAPAN

KAZAKHSTAN

KOREA,
REPUBLIC OF

LAO PDR

LATVIA

LIECHTENSTEIN

LITHUANIA

LUXEMBOURG

MALAYSIA

MALDIVES

MALTA

MEXICO

MONACO

MONGOLIA

MONTENEGRO

MOROCCO

MYANMAR

NETHERLANDS

NEW ZEALAND

NORWAY

PERU

PHILIPPINES

POLAND

PORTUGAL

QATAR

ROMANIA

RUSSIAN
FEDERATION

SAUDI
ARABIA

SINGAPORE

SLOVENIA

SPAIN

SRI LANKA

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND

THAILAND

TUNISIA

TÜRKİYE

TURKMENISTAN

UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES

UNITED
KINGDOM

UNITED
STATES

UZBEKISTAN

VIET NAM

YEMEN

CATALAN
AGENCY FOR
DEVELOPMENT
COOPERATION
(SPAIN)

CO-FUNDED
BY THE
EUROPEAN
UNION

FLEMISH
GOVERNMENT
OF BELGIUM

JERSEY

UN, INGO
AND PRIVATE
SECTOR
PARTNERS

OTHER DONORS

AGFUND

BASQUE
AGENCY FOR
DEVELOPMENT
COOPERATION
(SPAIN)

1

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

﻿

2021 PRESENCE

The Hague

OCHA GENEVA
Switzerland

RO for the

OCHA NEW YORK
USA

Mexico
Guatemala Honduras

Regional Ofﬁce coverage
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Mali

Barbados

Venezuela

El Salvador

LATIN AMERICA AND THE
CARIBBEAN
Panamá, Panama

CAR - Central African Republic
DRC - Democratic Republic of the Congo
DPR of Korea - Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
oPt - Occupied Palestinian Territory
Syrian AR - Syrian Arab Republic
IR Iran - Islamic Republic of Iran
Regional Ofﬁce for the Syria Crisis, Amman, Jordan
Operational coordination team

Haiti

Colombia

Ecuador

The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the
United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its
authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

Peru
Bolivia

Niger

Burkina
Faso Nigeria
WEST AND CENTRAL
AFRICA
Dakar, Senegal

Cameroon

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

﻿

1

5

Headquarters
two locations

Regional Offices

31

Country Offices

26

Humanitarian
Adviser Teams

Ukraine
Lebanon Georgia

Armenia

Istanbul

e Syria Crisis7
Jordan
Libya

CAR1

DRC2

DPR of
Korea3

Azerbaijan Kyrgyzstan
Tajikistan

Türkiye
6
Syrian AR5 IR Iran
Afghanistan
oPt4 Iraq

MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA
Cairo, Egypt
Chad

Kazakhstan

Kuwait8

Japan

Pakistan

Qatar8

Saudi United Arab
Arabia8 Emirates

Sudan Eritrea

Yemen

Myanmar

ASIA AND THE
PACIFIC
Bangkok,
Thailand
Philippines

Ethiopia
South Sudan
Somalia
SOUTHERN AND
Burundi EASTERN AFRICA
Nairobi, Kenya

Madagascar

Zimbabwe

Indonesia

Ofﬁce of the
Paciﬁc Islands

Mozambique

3

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

﻿

OCHA 2021
YEAR IN REVIEW

19.1M users on
ReliefWeb

Partnerships with businesses to
strengthen humanitarian response
reached more than 1 million people

RELIEFWEB MARKED ITS
25TH YEAR OF OPERATIONS

1.4M users on
Humanitarian
Response.info

18.5k data sets in
Humanitarian
Data Exchange

Promoting women’s leadership in
humanitarian action
Ensuring inclusion of persons with
disabilities and older people
Strengthened local response:
Deployments by surge mechanism

101 Deployments from regional offices
Deployments from country offices,
including 13 from the Country Office
Surge Pool

20% MORE
THAN IN 2020

393 OCHA maps

1,493 OCHA infographics

1,812 OCHA
reports

17 countries and 2
regions used the Digital
Situation Reports
IN 7 DIFFERENT
LANGUAGES

United Nations Disaster Assessment
and Coordination deployments
Deployments from headquarters
including 13 Core Team deployments
Joint Environment Unit deployments

A global protection agenda for health care during the
pandemic

Deployments by location

The use of new and emerging technologies and
humanitarian data

Europe, Central Asia
and the Caucasus
26
Middle East and
North Africa
10
Asia and
the Pacific
71

Latin America
and the Caribbean

47
Southern and
Eastern Africa

28

West and
Central Africa

Note: This does not reflect all the remote surge and support across the organization.

2019

$54
8M
2020

2021

Under-Secretary-General advocacy
Mission to Afghanistan drew global attention to the crisis,
women’s rights and humanitarian access
Mission to Ethiopia underlined support for and access to
conflict-affected people across northern Ethiopia

Called for urgent action to prevent famine across 43
countries including Yemen

01B
$1.

8M
$90
9M

8M

$83

4

$53

1M
$50
2018

Advance anticipatory approaches, strengthen resilience
and collaborate to respond to the climate crisis

Mission to Syria highlighted humanitarian access,
protection, early recovery and resilience for affected
people

CBPFs

$84

6M

$1.0

2B

CERF*

UN Economic and Social Council’s
Humanitarian Affairs Segment

20 funds,
40 countries and
territories reached
through pooled
funds
* Does not include allocations for
regional coordination efforts under the
Ebola allocation

Assistant Secretary-General advocacy
Mission to earthquake-stricken Haiti to call for global
support
Mission to Burkina Faso urged for support for the Sahel
Delivered lectures on UN’s role in the humanitarian
system

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

﻿

Contents
	6	FOREWORD

	8	 MAKING LIVES BETTER
	9	

DEEPENING CRISES: AFGHANISTAN, ETHIOPIA, HAITI

	17	

RESPONDING TO THE IMPACTS OF COVID-19: ANALYSIS, RESEARCH AND HORIZON SCANNING

	21	

FIELD OFFICES

	60	

BUILDING ON ANTICIPATORY ACTION PILOTS

	62	

PROMOTING WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP IN HUMANITARIAN ACTION

	64	

OCHA’S ROLE IN THE INTER-AGENCY STANDING COMMITTEE

	71	

RESPONDING TO ENVIRONMENTAL EMERGENCIES

	74	

HUMANITARIAN FINANCING

	8 4	FUNDING
	9 2	ANNEXES
	93	ACRONYMS
	94	

OCHA ORGANIZATION CHART

	96	

FINANCIAL TABLES

OCHA in action
10	

ACCESS: UNCOVERED

19	

PROMOTING ACCURATE PUBLIC INFORMATION ON THE PANDEMIC’S HUMANITARIAN IMPACT

23	

WORLD HUMANITARIAN DAY

25	

OCHA TURNS 30

28	

DATA VISUALIZATION FOR STRONGER ADVOCACY

30	

OCHA AT COP26

32	

RELIEFWEB TURNS 25

42	

CONNECTING BUSINESS INITIATIVE REACHED MORE THAN 1 MILLION PEOPLE

53	

A DREAM FOR SYRIA

57	

2021 GLOBAL HUMANITARIAN FORUM

61	

PREDICTIVE ANALYTICS IN SUPPORT OF ANTICIPATORY ACTION

77	

COMMUNICATING THE VALUE OF CERF AND THE CBPFS

87	

OCHA DONOR SUPPORT GROUP

5

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

﻿

USG Griffiths with
Tsige Tsadik and
his wife, Nigisti

Foreword

Gebregziher, at the
remains of their
house in Tigray,
Ethiopia. It had been
home to them and
their six children.
OCHA/Saviano
Abreu

6

From the continuing wars in Afghanistan,
Ethiopia, Syria and Yemen to the hunger crisis in Madagascar and South Sudan, and the
cyclone and earthquake in Haiti, 2021 was
a year of intensifying humanitarian need.

appeals — a 6.4 per cent increase from the
$18.9 billion raised in 2020.

Thanks to this support, the UN and partners reached 107 million people with some
form of assistance. This included food aid
Throughout the year, as in every year since for tens of millions of people across dozens
OCHA was created, we continued to serve of countries, including Afghanistan, the
people in need by leveraging our role as re- Democratic Republic of the Congo, Syria and
source mobilizers, convenors, first respond- Yemen; safe water for 34 million people; and
ers, coordinators, advocates and access ne- support for 18 million people to keep their
gotiators — the whole gamut of capacities livelihoods going.
that support OCHA’s unique mandate.
Here are just 10 highlights of the year:
Prolonged conflicts, the mounting impacts
of the climate emergency and the linger- 1.	 The Central Emergency Response
Fund (CERF), innovating again, made
ing socioeconomic effects of the COVID-19
the
first-ever allocation to address the
pandemic meant that more people were deneeds of people with disabilities, and
pendent on aid for their basic needs. Accordit expanded its support for early, preing to the Global Humanitarian Overview
ventative humanitarian action. When
— a UN-coordinated annual assessment of
Typhoon Rai (locally known as Odette)
global need — 274 million people needed
pummelled the Philippines in December,
humanitarian assistance by December 2021,
we immediately released CERF funding
up from 235 million in January.
to boost the Government’s response.
Our donors responded generously, and 2.	 The Country-Based Pooled Funds
OCHA was able to mobilize US$20.1 billion
(CBPFs) increased funding to local organthrough UN-coordinated humanitarian

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

﻿

izations, which received over a third of
the grants. We also launched the first Regional Pooled Fund for West and Central
Africa to foster a coordinated, coherent
response in Burkina Faso and Niger initially, as the region faced weather shocks
and mounting violence.

protection, and to help scale up the
humanitarian response. OCHA also led
the advocacy effort that succeeded in
exempting humanitarian assistance from
UN sanctions on Afghanistan, and we
advocated with the de facto authorities
to uphold the rights of women and girls
throughout the year.

3.	 The Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC) — the coordinating body of 8.	 I led a high-level task force, convened by
the UN Secretary-General, on preventing
the formal humanitarian system, which
famine, which coordinated prevention
the Emergency Relief Coordinator (ERC)
efforts, resource mobilization — includchairs — declared a system-wide scaleing co-hosting our first pledging event
up in Afghanistan and Ethiopia, effectivefor famine prevention — and informaly bringing all IASC members together to
tion sharing.
rapidly expand operations.
4.	 Fundraising was boosted through pledg- 9.	 When a 7.2-magnitude earthquake struck
Haiti, affecting 800,000 people, followed
ing conferences for Afghanistan, raising
just days later by Tropical Cyclone Grace,
$4.4 billion; for Syria, raising $5.3 billion
OCHA stepped in to support the Govas the crisis entered its tenth year; and for
ernment’s response with coordination,
Yemen, raising $2.2 billion by the year’s
funding and information management.
end. In January, we launched a Flash Appeal to raise funds for the hunger crisis 10.	In the run-up to November's UN Climate
in Madagascar’s Grand Sud region, in
Change Conference, in Glasgow, we
response to extreme drought.
launched our climate crisis campaign,
#TheHumanRace, to mark World Hu5.	 We launched anticipatory action pilot
manitarian Day, which mobilized 570,000
projects in Malawi and the Philippines,
participants in over 183 countries.
and we continued pilots in Bangladesh,
Ethiopia and Somalia. This approach pro- These and many other efforts throughout the
tected 100,000 people from emergency year succeeded because of our donors’ generhunger conditions, prevented the spread osity. Thank you for your continued commitof disease and reduced displacement. We ment to humanitarian action, and to OCHA.
also collaborated with the African Union
to develop anticipatory insurance policies
for vulnerable people in select countries.
6.	 We deployed experts in protection, gender and accountability to affected people to dozens of crises, including Burkina
Faso, Ethiopia, Haiti, Kenya, Myanmar
and Niger. Gender specialists helped
ensure humanitarian assessments and
operations responded to the specific
needs of women and girls, while experts
in protection ensured it was woven into Martin Griffiths
every humanitarian response sector, United Nations Under-Secretary-General
from food aid to camp management.
for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency
7.	 As ERC, my first mission was to Ethiopia, Relief Coordinator
including the Tigray region to advocate
for humanitarian access and civilian

7

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

MAKING LIVES
BETTER
.

8

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Deepening crises: Afghanistan,
Ethiopia, Haiti

Northern Ethiopia’s expanding conflict left
over 9.4 million people in need of assistance.
In Afghanistan, 23 million people faced acute
hunger, almost 9 million of whom needed emergency assistance. And in Haiti, a
7.2-magnitude earthquake, followed a few
days later by a tropical storm, left millions of
people in need just as violence and insecurity
increased across the country.

AFGHANISTAN

Following the Taliban takeover in August,
OCHA ramped up efforts to support affected communities. These efforts, led by the
Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian
Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator
(USG/ERC), Martin Griffiths, also supported
the system-wide scaled-up response. This
included the development of a Flash Appeal,
To support the most vulnerable people which raised a record amount of more than
in all three countries, OCHA responded $1 billion, almost twice the amount requestacross its five core functions: advocacy, ed in urgent funding.
coordination, policy, funding and information management.

Seven-year-old Noor
Mah from Badghis
Province at a childfriendly space for
internally displaced
children in Herat,
Afghanistan. Credit:
OCHA/Sayed Habib
Bidel

9

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

members and partners as part of this process. The humanitarian exception provided for in Security Council resolution 2615
(2021) has subsequently helped facilitate the
provision of humanitarian and basic needs
assistance in Afghanistan — essentially all
interventions included in the Transitional
Engagement Framework — by providing
OCHA led advocacy efforts to secure a hu- financial institutions and commercial actors
manitarian exemption from UN sanctions with the legal comfort to continue engaging
applicable against the Taliban and Haqqa- with Afghanistan.
ni network, steering engagement with the
1988 Sanctions Committee, Security Council
Advocacy

USG/ERC Griffiths was the first high-level UN
official to visit Afghanistan to meet de facto
authorities. He advocated for girls’ access
to education and for women’s meaningful
participation in all sectors of Afghanistan’s
economy and governance.

Access: Uncovered
OCHA’s Strategic Communications Branch
(SCB) launched a four-part mini docuseries,
Access: Uncovered, to highlight the importance of unimpeded access to people in need
and OCHA’s role in preserving and securing
humanitarian access. It takes viewers on
a unique journey alongside aid workers as
they negotiate with rebel leaders, avoid air

10

strikes and landmines, and travel through cyclone-ravaged terrain to ensure the safe and
timely delivery of life-saving aid in Afghanistan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Mozambique and Yemen.

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Coordination and policy

OCHA led the development of regular analysis and key messages for the UN and the IASC.
It developed reporting for senior leadership
on women’s participation in humanitarian
action following the Taliban takeover. It also
produced monthly monitoring reports on
the de facto authorities’ written commitments made with the ERC on 10 September
2021. These commitments were made in response to the UN’s asks on enabling secure,
independent and unimpeded operational
space for the humanitarian community.

to the response. This included efforts on protecting children and developing a protection
strategy for the country team and a framework to be accountable to affected people.

The Gender Standby Capacity Project (GenCap) fast-tracked a Senior Gender Adviser’s
deployment to Afghanistan following the
IASC System-Wide Scale-Up activation. The
adviser helped review gender-equality programming in the Humanitarian Needs Overview (HNO) and the Humanitarian Response
Plan (HRP) and provided training to guide
the inclusion of gender-equality measures
Since May 2020, experienced staff have pro- in both reports.
vided strategic advice and coordination to
the protection of civilians in Afghanistan To ensure that Afghans, especially womthrough the inter-agency Protection Stand- en, continued to access useful and relevant
by Capacity Project (ProCap) — a flexible information for their well-being and decistaff-deployment mechanism managed by sion-making, OCHA and the Accountability
OCHA and the Norwegian Refugee Council. to Affected People (AAP) Working Group
As the landscape changed in 2021, ProCap supported agencies and non-governmenramped up efforts to make protection central
Girls study at
a child-friendly
space for internally
displaced children in
Herat, Afghanistan.
Credit: OCHA/Sayed
Habib Bidell

“The role of women and girls is crucial, as anywhere. They must have access to education, they
must have rights and access to all other essential services, as anywhere else in the world. A better
future for Afghanistan in particular depends on the meaningful participation of women in all
sectors of Afghanistan’s economy and governance.”
Martin Griffiths, United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and
Emergency Relief Coordinator

11

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

tal organizations (NGOs) that operated in Information management
country and in Iran, Pakistan and Tajikistan. OCHA’s information management (IM) team
in Afghanistan worked around the clock to
keep humanitarian partners informed of the
Funding
response. It produced snapshots of immediOCHA has continued its efforts to stabi- ate needs, access constraints, affected organlize the economic situation in Afghanistan, izations and numbers of incidents, including
which was severely compromised by the attacks on aid workers and limits on female
suspension of development cooperation, aid workers. The team’s conflict-induced
sanctions and the freezing of assets follow- displacement interactive maps and pipeline
tracking reports (which show the projected
ing the Taliban takeover.
status of key humanitarian supply pipelines)
Those factors led to an extraordinary in- helped keep track of the most urgent humancrease in humanitarian needs that cannot itarian needs.
be met by emergency assistance alone. With
the World Bank, the International Finance
Corporation and others, OCHA successfully ETHIOPIA
advocated for the unblocking of funds from
international financial institutions and the As the crisis in northern Ethiopia worsened,
disbursement of Afghanistan Reconstruction OCHA was instrumental in raising awareTrust Fund resources to UN agencies, helping ness of the gravity of the humanitarian sitkeep basic services afloat.
uation, mobilizing response and negotiating
humanitarian access in the north and in
In 2021, the USG/ERC allocated $93 million other parts of the country.
from CERF to life-saving action in Afghanistan, making it by far the largest recipient
country. This included an extraordinary Advocacy
allocation of $45 million in October to the USG/ERC Griffiths visited Ethiopia in August
World Health Organization and the UN Chil- — his first mission in his new role. He met
dren’s Fund (UNICEF) that supported the with people affected by the crisis in the north,
provision of health care in more than 2,000 and he engaged senior officials to press for
NGO-run health facilities in 31 provinces up improved access and protection of civilians,
to January 2022.
including aid workers, in what had, within
less than a year, become one of the world’s
The Afghanistan Humanitarian Fund (AHF) most dangerous operating environments. He
is the largest OCHA CBPF, with an income highlighted the need to strengthen humanof $270 million from 20 donors, provided itarian response for conflict-related sexual
directly to front-line workers, including violence and gender-based violence (GBV)
national and international NGOs. By the survivors, and to engage local Ethiopian
year’s end, the AHF had allocated about $166 women's organizations in humanitarian acmillion to support 243 projects implemented tion. In July, then-acting USG/ERC Ramesh
by 70 partners, targeting 9.7 million people Rajasingham had urged the Security Council
to act to prevent famine in Ethiopia, as the
in 34 provinces.

12

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Following the
outbreak of violence,
OCHA led a multiagency assessment
mission with the UN
High Commissioner
for Refugees
(UNHCR) in southeastern Tigray in
April 2021.
Credit: OCHA/Jordi
Casafont Torra

situation deteriorated in Tigray. This followed warnings earlier in 2021 from former
USG/ERC Mark Lowcock that hundreds of
thousands of people were facing famine
conditions. Throughout the year, OCHA
consistently rang the alarm bells about the
humanitarian situation and regularly updated the Security Council and Member States
on the crisis and on efforts to address needs.

USG/ERC Griffiths returned to Ethiopia in
November, where he again pushed for expanded access to conflict-affected people,
protection of civilians and respect for principled humanitarian action, with the crisis
by then having increasingly spilled over into
Amhara and Afar regions.
At field, regional and headquarters levels,
OCHA played a key role in shaping and

13

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

amplifying humanitarian messaging on
Ethiopia. Its public reporting, including the
Northern Ethiopia Humanitarian Update,
became a go-to source of information for the
media, Member States and the public. OCHA
also continued to highlight humanitarian
needs outside the north of the country, including those relating to the drought, which
was increasingly taking hold in southern
Ethiopia by the year’s end.

to affected and displaced communities. The
AAP Coordinator and the ROSEA focal point
supported the development of standard operating procedures, terms of reference and
data collection tools for the national and
sub-national working groups. They also
guided the Community Voices dashboard, a
presentation of multiple surveys and sources
of public feedback on aid operations.

GenCap deployed a Senior Gender Adviser to
Mekelle in June 2021, who helped establish
an inter-agency rapid gender analysis team,
bringing together national organizations,
international NGOs and UN agencies. A
rapid gender analysis at the end of the year
fed into the 2022 Ethiopia HNO and HRP,
and ongoing humanitarian programming.
GenCap also supported a range of training
activities to enhance the inclusivity of the
response. The IASC AAP Coordinator, in
close collaboration with the Country Office
and the AAP focal points from the OCHA
Regional Office for Southern and Eastern
Africa (ROSEA), guided the establishment
of systems and methods for community
engagement, feedback and accountability

multiple credible and widely corroborated

The Centre for Humanitarian Data's Predictive Analytics team developed a trigger
Coordination
that helped aid organizations respond to
OCHA was at the centre of inter-agency projected drought-related food insecurity
efforts to scale up the capacity for humani- in parts of Ethiopia.
tarian response in northern Ethiopia. Seizing on an opening for increased access in
February and March, OCHA helped facilitate Humanitarian financing
the designation and implementation of an The OCHA-managed Ethiopia Humanitarian
IASC Scale-Up. As part of this, Emergency Fund continued to play a key role in supDirectors from key agencies visited Ethio- porting coordinated, prioritized and effipia, and IASC partners committed to rapidly cient response, mobilizing a record level of
strengthen capacities on the ground.
contributions in 2021, which enabled more
than $87 million to be allocated to UN and
OCHA supported the deployment of a Depu- NGO partners.
ty Humanitarian Coordinator (DHC), based
in Tigray, and a Regional HC to bolster the
HC’s efforts. OCHA’s role was critical as
sub-national coordination hubs were established and progressively strengthened
in Tigray, and as the crisis and the response
“As has been widely reported by senior UN
extended into other regions.
officials, civil society and others, we have

14

cases of serious sexual and gender-based
violence… This is likely, we fear, only a
fraction of the actual cases, as stigma, shame,
fear of reprisals as well as the lack of health
and psychosocial services are leading
to underreporting.”
Ramesh Rajasingham, Assistant SecretaryGeneral a.i. for Humanitarian Affairs and
Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

In 2021, CERF allocated almost $65 million
to aid agencies in Ethiopia. A trigger methodology based on food security and weather forecasting, developed by the Centre for
Humanitarian Data's Predictive Analytics
team, led to CERF releasing $20 million for
anticipatory action activities to aid agencies in Ethiopia to mitigate the effects of
drought early.
HAITI

On 14 August, a 7.2-magnitude earthquake
struck Haiti, killing over 2,000 people, injuring over 12,000 and affecting more than
800,000. OCHA responded immediately to
address needs and support the Government.

Acting DERC
Rajasingham talks
to Marie Rose, a
mother of four who
lost her youngest
— a two-month-old —
to the earthquake
in Haiti.
Credit: OCHA/Matteo
Minasi

Advocacy

Acting Assistant Secretary-General/Deputy ERC (DERC) Rajasingham visited Haiti
to assess the situation and launch a Flash
Appeal for more global support.

In September, DERC Rajasingham addressed
Member States to drum up more support
for the people of Haiti and to support the
Government’s response.

15

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Coordination

Two United Nations Disaster Assessment
and Coordination (UNDAC) teams were dispatched immediately after the earthquake;
22 UNDAC members and 11 operational
partners were deployed across two rotations
from 14 August to 25 September.
While the UNDAC team worked with the
OCHA Haiti Country Office to streamline
disaster relief efforts, members of the International Search and Rescue Advisory Group
established a Damage Assessment and Coordination Centre to help authorities assess
the structural integrity of affected buildings.

“Today we have a real opportunity to help
Haiti and its people build lives that are more
resilient to future shocks. This means building
risk awareness and reduction into the
reconstruction effort. This will take time, but
the efforts will be worth it.”
Ramesh Rajasingham, Assistant SecretaryGeneral a.i. for Humanitarian Affairs and
Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator

ProCap deployed a Senior Protection Adviser, who focused on protection risk clothes, food, hygiene kits and solar-powanalysis, integrated protection solutions and ered refrigerators. AGERCA helped open
capacity-building.
65 mobile lines with unlimited calls and
data for members of the national and local
Operations were supported by the Virtual emergency operations centres and provided
On-Site Operations Coordination Centre — phone credits to local leaders.
an online collaboration platform. Various
agencies boosted OCHA’s efforts to help the
Government by deploying technical experts Funding
and supporting key issues, such as AAP.
CERF allocated almost $11 million to help
kick-start the provision of immediate,
The IASC AAP Coordinator advised on com- life-saving humanitarian assistance, such
munity engagement activities. AAP was in- as food, shelter and drinking water.
cluded in the Haiti Flash Appeal. Accountability lessons learned, recommendations OCHA released a Business Guide to the Haiti
and key actions based on experience from Earthquake for local and international comthe Hurricane Matthew response were high- panies wishing to support the relief and relighted. The deployment of UNICEF and the covery operation.
International Federation of Red Cross and
Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) focused on
re-establishing post-earthquake communications with communities. The response
was supported by social media analysis,
with data collected from Twitter, local radio
stations and other sources highlighted in a
communications needs assessment.
The Connecting Business initiative, working
through local member network the Alliance
for Risk Management and Business Continuity (AGERCA), mobilized the private
sector to distribute critical items, including thousands of gallons of drinking water,

16

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Responding to the impacts of
COVID-19: Analysis, research and
horizon scanning

In 2021, OCHA continued to respond not only
to ongoing humanitarian crises fuelled by
conflict, violence and the effects of climate
change, but also to the overwhelming impact
of COVID-19 on existing humanitarian crises.
OCHA worked to address the pandemic’s
immediate humanitarian consequences
and to help vulnerable countries cope. This
included providing emergency reporting
services to help gather, analyse and visualize data pertaining to the spread of the
disease, medevac, vaccines, and the safety
and security of OCHA personnel.

Support for OCHA personnel was informed
by ad hoc dashboards including the First
Line of Defence — a portal showing key
data on operational presence in the field
and staffing and medical facilities available
to staff — to support preparedness on the
ground, identify key areas where support
was needed and inform decision-making.

Respecting social
distance, people
wait their turn
for humanitarian
assistance in Jonglei
State, South Sudan.
Credit: OCHA/Emmi
Antinoja

Throughout 2021, OCHA supported the UN
system-wide medevac and front-line prevention activities. OCHA worked with the
UN System-Wide Task Force on Vaccinations
to provide vaccinations to its personnel and

17

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

partners so they could stay and deliver in
their duty stations. These vaccinations,
available where national programmes were
stretched or not accessible, helped protect
personnel, partners and their families from
serious illness, curbing the spread of the
virus. OCHA also sponsored international
NGO partners with access to vaccinations to
ensure their personnel could stay and deliver.

Inflation rates rose in 2021 and are predicted to spike in 2022 due to food and energy
price increases and supply disruptions. This
could lead to increased food insecurity and
the risk of debt crises. Increasing interest
rates also triggered a sharp rise in the cost
of refinancing and external borrowing by
countries with a HRP, considerably elevating
the risk of deepening existing crises. As of
December 2021, eight countries with HRPs in
Over 1,351 OCHA personnel were vaccinat- 2021 were at high risk of debt distress, while
ed through the campaign, which was made four countries were at moderate risk.
available to all country offices. OCHA has
been instrumental in including international
and national NGO communities in the UN Data-driven decision-making
campaign, as it continued to help its partners In 2021, OCHA focused on broader data
deliver humanitarian aid to the most vulner- collection based on evidence and analyable people during the pandemic.
sis. Data shared through its Humanitarian
Data Exchange (HDX) was used to develop
OCHA’s response in 2021 went beyond the and maintain the COVID-19 Data Explorer,
pandemic’s immediate health impacts to which gathered more than 100,000 unique
the strategic analysis of the grave secondary views. This resource brings together data
impacts of lockdowns, market volatility, sup- related to underlying vulnerability and
ply chain disruptions and labour movement socioeconomic risk, as well as the level of
restrictions.
humanitarian and international financing
going towards the pandemic response. The
resource includes 58 data sets covering 63
countries and several original data sets not
VACCINATION CAMPAIGN IN FIGURES publicly available elsewhere, including data
on vaccine deliveries to countries with HRPs,
and vaccine financing data from Gavi, the
Vaccine Alliance. This data gave OCHA a
1,638 1,351
34
27
broader understanding of the pandemic’s
INGO
OCHA
INGO
OCHA
partners*
staff
dependents* dependents
impact and informed the ongoing response
*
Vaccinated through OCHA
in the countries it operates in.
At least 20 routine immunization campaigns
were postponed every month across countries with a humanitarian appeal, affecting an average of 115 million people each
month. Immunization campaigns were
cancelled due to health-care systems being overwhelmed, lack of financing, fear of
exposure to COVID-19, or transportation
barriers caused by containment measures.
Delaying vaccinations increased the risk of
the resurgence of preventable diseases, such
as measles and polio.

18

COVID-19 DASHBOARD
BROUGHT TOGETHER
58 DATA SETS ON THE UNDERLYING
VULNERABILITY AND THE SOCIOECONOMIC
SITUATION AND FINANCING LEVEL FOR THE
PANDEMIC RESPONSE IN 63 COUNTRIES.

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Promoting accurate
public information
on the pandemic’s
humanitarian impact
During 2021, thanks to a $500,000 grant
from Google Ads, OCHA’s digital platforms
promoted content highlighting the pandemic’s humanitarian impact. Links to relevant
OCHA-hosted information were served against
the results of 5.7 million Google searches,
securing almost 400,000 click-throughs. The
grants were awarded to help UN organizations
leading the COVID-19 response to provide critical, accurate information around the world.

A monthly analysis report on the pandemic
in countries with appeals was produced.

Pandemic-affected
internally displaced
people receive

Each report analysed the pandemic’s secondary impacts on humanitarian settings,
including delayed economic recovery, food
insecurity, school closures, postponed immunization campaigns and GBV. Monthly reports based on HDX data were a vital
resource to OCHA staff, policymakers and
practitioners, and they informed senior leadership’s advocacy.

humanitarian
packages in Garowe
town, Somalia.
Credit: OCHA/Ahmed
Fais

A special 2021 year-in-review report summarizing achievements was also produced.

19

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

The reports were downloaded more than
20,000 times in 2021.
Using the HDX dashboard and original research, the COVID-19 cell produced analysis
on the pandemic’s compounding factors and
secondary impacts. This work informed a
Devex op-ed by the USG/ERC on the link
between COVID-19 and armed conflict.
The analysis also supported Security Council briefings by the ASG a.i. to the Security
Council; a high-level panel on COVID-19 and
fragility during the Global Humanitarian
Policy Forum; and a discussion at the Humanitarian Coordinators' Retreat.
An International Aid Transparency Initiative
(IATI) COVID-19 Funding Dashboard enabled users to visualize, explore and analyse
IATI’s published pandemic-related data,
and a data story was set up to share key insights about COVID-19 commitments and
spending. The IATI COVID-19 Data: Insights,
Issues and Recommendations for Improvement,
published in October 2021, provided recommendations for the IATI community.

20

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Field offices

People affected
by drought in
Madagascar’s
Amboasary district.

WHAT OCHA’S OFFICES DO
Support Governments’ response to
a crisis.
Support the Resident/Humanitarian
Coordinator in coordinating a response.

Credit: OCHA/Viviane
Rakotoarivony

Provide up-to-date information
on the crisis and the needs of the
affected people.
Advocate for the needs and protection
of affected people and aid workers.

Develop a common needs assessment
and common response plan for the
aid community.

Advocate for access to affected people.

Manage Country-Based Pooled Funds.

Track and monitor crisis response.

Help mobilize and track resources for
crisis response.

21

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

EASTERN AND SOUTHERN AFRICA
Regional Office for Southern and Eastern
Africa (ROSEA)

Humanitarian needs grew in Eastern and
Southern Africa due to conflict, climate
emergencies and crop-threatening pests.

of remote support, including as part of ongoing responses in Ethiopia, Madagascar,
Mozambique, Somalia, South Sudan and
Zimbabwe, and in new or emerging crises in
Angola, Eswatini, Kenya and Namibia.

ROSEA supported emergency response preparedness in Tanzania and Uganda, and its
The conflict in northern Ethiopia drove civil-military coordination and humanitarmillions of people from their homes. In Mo- ian access experts supported country operzambique’s Cabo Delgado Province, attacks ations (particularly in Ethiopia and Mozamand clashes caused waves of displacement, bique) and regional-level capacity-building.
especially in the first half of the year. The
Horn of Africa remained a major route for mi- ROSEA was critical in galvanizing attention
gration movements. Conflict-related sexual to and funding for major and neglected
violence and other grave protection concerns humanitarian crises across the region. It
persisted across the region.
mobilized nearly $47.5 million from CERF
for the countries it supports and helped
Severe weather events impacted the region, develop appeals.
with drought affecting millions of people
across the Horn of Africa, in Madagascar’s OCHA ROSEA had 32 staff (18 national, 14
Grand Sud and in southern Angola. In South- international) along with three United Naern Africa, tropical weather systems affected tions Volunteers (UNVs). It had Humanitarmore than 680,000 people, causing death, ian Advisory Teams (HATs) in Madagascar
displacement, flooding and landslides, and (three national staff) and Mozambique (one
damage to homes, infrastructure and live- national and two international staff; one
lihoods, including in Botswana, Eswatini, national and one international UNV) and
Madagascar, Mozambique, South Africa established a small HAT in Zimbabwe (three
and Zimbabwe.
Standby Partners [SBPs], one national UNV).
Climate emergencies contributed to the
spread of crop-threatening pests. In Southern Africa, heavy rains exacerbated an African migratory locust outbreak in Botswana,
Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. In Eastern
Africa, a desert locust upsurge was gradually reduced due to control operations and
limited rainfall.
The pandemic continued its impact on the
region. Containment measures caused protection concerns — particularly GBV — and
hampered access to basic health care, including for sexual and reproductive health.
ROSEA’s top priority was to respond to new
or escalating emergencies and provide support to ongoing crises across the 25 countries
it covers (and beyond). It provided 1,419 days
of in-country support and about 1,286 days

22

ROSEA also utilized SBPs (who are gratis
personnel provided by organizations via
secondment) to establish a temporary presence in Zambia at the height of that country's drought.

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

World Humanitarian Day
The 2021 World Humanitarian Day campaign,
#TheHumanRace, challenged the world to
log 100 minutes of activity (via exercise app
Strava) in the name of climate action for
people who need it most. The response was
overwhelming and global: some 570,000 people in 183 countries completed the challenge
to send a message to world leaders at the
UN Climate Change Conference (commonly
known as COP26) in November to demand
they deliver against their decade-old pledge
of $100 billion annually for climate action in
developing countries. Cumulatively, participants logged more than 400 billion minutes
on Strava and covered 104 billion metres.
This means that together they could have
circled Earth 2,600 times or taken a round
trip to Mars.

Another 50,000 people signed up to the cause
via the campaign website, which received
304,000 unique visitors from 190 countries.
Campaign messaging had a potential reach
of 1.2 billion views through social media, and
video views topped 3.5 million. World-class
athletes, activists and influencers backed the
campaign and its call to action. They included
ultra-runner Fernanda Maciel, Olympic and
World Champion Haile Gebrselassie, climate
activists such as the UN Secretary-General’s
Youth Advisory Group on Climate Change, and
influencers ranging from Nicole Kidman to
Pope Francis.

23

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Children play at the
Kigaramango IDP
camp in Burundi.
When the camp
flooded in May
2021, residents were
relocated to another
site.
OCHA/Camille
Marquis

24

Burundi

Food insecurity, acute malnutrition, natural
hazards, COVID-19, the increasing number
of repatriated Burundian refugees and the
presence of Congolese refugees remained
the main causes of humanitarian needs in
Burundi. The combination of these factors
resulted in 2.3 million people needing humanitarian assistance.

OCHA had one office in Bujumbura comprising 14 staff (six national, eight international).
Eritrea

Eritrea suffered drought-induced food insecurity, malnutrition and protection challenges, especially due to the pandemic-related lockdown. The number of reported
COVID-19 cases remained low as the year
OCHA supported the coordination of eight began but increased towards midyear. The
clusters and 65 humanitarian partners, and desert locust infestation was a significant
it helped national NGOs to create consorti- concern, as was access to health services,
including maternal health in remote areas.
ums to strengthen their interventions.
Immunization coverage was low, especially
In June 2021, an OCHA-coordinated CERF in remote areas.
Rapid Response request led to a $1.5 million
allocation to address urgent needs in shelter, OCHA approached humanitarian needs in
food assistance, and water, sanitation and flexible and innovative ways, and it supporthygiene in some flood-affected areas. The ed the RC/HC and the UN Country Team
2021 HRP requested $195 million and received (UNCT) to integrate the most urgent hu$70 million.
manitarian needs and responses into other
channels, such as development processes.

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA facilitated, consolidated and monitored the implementation of the 2021 Basic
Services Response Priorities (BSRP) document — an internal UN plan that includes
humanitarian “basic service” priorities, such
as clean water and primary health care, as
part of the Strategic Partnership Cooperation Framework.
Through the BSRP, OCHA coordinated
analysis of the humanitarian situation and
prioritized needs and the response. The BSRP
required almost $32.9 million. Despite several challenges affecting resource mobilization, $9 million (27 per cent) was raised to
assist 1.04 million people. OCHA provided
an Emergency Cash Grant to support the
Food and Agriculture Organization’s desert
locust response.
OCHA Eritrea had seven staff (five national,
two international) and one UNV.

OCHA turns 30

The resolution remains the common basis
for the provision of humanitarian assistance
around the world, and it led to the creation of OCHA.
The pivotal resolution marked the international community’s collective commitment to
help the world’s most vulnerable people when
they need it most. It set out the principles
that guide humanitarian work, and it enabled
partnerships between Governments, the UN,
NGOs and other humanitarian entities, such
as the Red Cross/Red Crescent Societies.
Resolution 46/182 introduced cohesion to
humanitarian responses through the IASC at
the global level and the Humanitarian Country Teams (HCTs) at the field level. It also
propelled the creation of crucial humanitarian
mechanisms, including the ERC position,
coordinated financial appeals (originally
through the Consolidated Appeals Process) and the Central Emergency Revolving
Fund, now known as the Central Emergency
Response Fund.

19 December 2021 marked 30 years since UN
Member States negotiated and adopted General Assembly resolution 46/182: “Strengthening
of the coordination of humanitarian emergency assistance of the United Nations.”

25

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Humanitarian
workers meet with
affected people and
members of the host
community in Nablet
town, Ethiopia.
Credit: OCHA

Ethiopia

By mid-2021, some 20 million people needed
life-saving assistance in Ethiopia, 5 million
more people than the previous year. This
was due to spiraling conflict, particularly
in the north of the country, intercommunal
violence, drought, floods, desert locusts, disease outbreaks and the pandemic’s evolving
impacts. The expanding conflict in northern Ethiopia left over 9.4 million people in
need of assistance across Afar, Amhara and
Tigray regions.
OCHA supported the scale-up of response to
the conflict. It developed a Northern Ethiopia Response Plan, supported deployment
of a Deputy HC and a Regional HC, activated subnational coordination structures in
Tigray and engaged with Government-led
coordination mechanisms and a broad range
of stakeholders across the country.

in coordinating efforts to address access
challenges in an increasingly difficult and
dangerous operating environment. It also
led the development of a national civil-military coordination strategy.
OCHA coordinated common humanitarian messaging and issued regular public
reporting through the Northern Ethiopia
Humanitarian Update. This became a go-to
source of authoritative public reporting on
humanitarian needs and response and key
operational challenges.
OCHA coordinated intersectoral analysis of
needs and response throughout the country,
including through the HRP midyear review.
OCHA mobilized the highest funding level
for the Ethiopia Humanitarian Fund in the
past five years, allocating $87 million.

Through regular monitoring and its activa- As needs grew, OCHA expanded its field
tion of a dedicated Access Working Group presence in the most severely affected arin Afar, Amhara and Tigray, OCHA was key eas. It established a new hub for the Tigray

26

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

region with offices in Mekelle and Shire,
opened a sub-office in Bahir Dar (Amhara)
and maintained an office in Semera (Afar).
OCHA also maintained hubs for the east
(Somali), south (SNNPR, Sidama, Oromia
regions) and west (Benishangul Gambella,
Gumuz and Oromia).
OCHA Ethiopia expanded from 91 staff (at
the start of 2021) to 110 (90 national, 20 international), despite challenges in visa approvals and staff deployments to Tigray, and
the expulsion of seven senior UN officials
including OCHA staff. Nineteen staff supported the office through surge deployments.

and empower State- and regional-level inter-cluster coordination. Due to pandemic-related travel restrictions, OCHA facilitated 26 joint missions to 23 different locations
during the second half of the year. When a
drought emergency began in October, OCHA
galvanized the humanitarian community to
enable early action.

OCHA had a significant impact through its
funding: The Somalia Humanitarian Fund
(SHF) and CERF represented 13 per cent of
the HRP funding. The SHF continued to lead
on the localization agenda and exceeded
the target set for 2021, with 63 per cent of
allocated funding reaching national NGOs.
The increased pool of eligible partners ready
Somalia
and available for direct engagement has imExtensive flooding and the pandemic exac- proved the fund’s flexibility and its ability to
erbated the humanitarian situation in 2020, extend its response to hard-to-reach areas.
which left an estimated 5.9 million Somalis in need of humanitarian assistance in With 75 staff (53 national, 19 international
2021. Throughout the year, the country saw and three UNVs), OCHA Somalia maintained
heightened political tensions in the context a country office in Mogadishu; field offices in
of a delayed electoral process and a contin- Baidoa (SouthWest), Belet Weyne (HirShaued military offensive against Al-Shabaab. belle), Dhusamareeb (Galmudug), Garowe
(Puntland), Hargeisa (Somaliland), Kismayo
OCHA developed an Emergency Response and Doolow (Jubaland) and Mogadishu (BaPreparedness plan, which formed the basis nadir); and an office in Nairobi, Kenya.
for flood and drought planning later in the
year. Subnational humanitarian coordination architecture was reformed to strengthen

As the drought
intensified in
Somalia, the
International
Organization for
Migration (IOM)
delivered water to
vulnerable people in
Kismayo.
Credit: OCHA/
Ahmed Fais

27

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

SOMALIA: THE COST OF INACTION

WHAT IF ? …

10 CONSEQUENCES IF WE FAIL TO SUSTAIN THE CURRENT RESPONSE

Hunger will increase and 1 million people will not receive monthly food
assistance. The current lack of funding is likely to reverse recent food security
and nutrition gains. At current funding levels, the Food Security Cluster will only be
able to support 1.7 million of the 2.7 million people facing ‘crisis’ or ‘emergency’
level food insecurity through June 2021. Existing rations have already been
reduced by 50% for 400,000 people due to funding cuts.

THE COST
OF INACTION
AS OF APRIL 2021

THE SITUATION IN SOMALIA

Nearly 3 million Somalis have no access to essential health care services,
which will result in excess deaths and disease outbreaks. There will be insufficient
resources to address preventable health outbreaks such as AWD/Cholera and
COVID-19, while the health system will fail to deliver preventative and essential care,
further contributing to one of the world’s highest maternal and child mortality rates.

The humanitarian situation is dire. Somalia has experienced armed conflict for nearly three decades while suffering
from cyclical, extreme climate conditions. The resilience of communities has been pushed to the brink, and coping
strategies depleted, causing widespread precarity. Even minor shocks have devastating human consequences.

Conditions and services in 795 sites will remain below
minimum standards, putting at least 700,000 displaced
persons at risk.

900,000 people facing ‘crisis’ or ‘emergency’ level food
insecurity will not receive the emergency seasonal
livelihood inputs, undermining production and worsening
the impact of lean seasons. This will lead to deepening
household food insecurity and malnutrition and a higher
humanitarian caseload later in the year.

Humanitarian needs will remain high. Multiple and concurrent shocks, including drought, desert locusts and ongoing
conflict may push the country to the brink of another famine.
More than 1.7 million people will not have access to safe water and lack
adequate sanitation. A lack of access to water remains one of the leading causes of
displacement, conflict, and disease in Somalia. As the country is facing drought
conditions, immediate assistance is required to mitigate the situation.

2.9 M

people remain
displaced, without any
hope to return to their
homes.

2.7 M

people, are facing high
levels of acute food
insecurity and hunger.

1M

children are acutely or
severely malnourished.

DROUGHT EXACERBATING EXISTING VULNERABILITIES

1

in

women of child-bearing
age dies due to
pregnancy-related
complications.

51,000 children will be at risk of dying and around 250,000 moderately acute
malnourished children will not receive vital nutrition assistance. These children, if
left unserved, will face potential severely acute malnourishment, and increased
exposure to disease and infections.

people in Somalia, nearly half of the population, require
life saving or protection services.

Close to 500,000 destitute IDPs will not receive shelter, forcing people to continue
living in overcrowded and unplanned settlements, and reside in shelters without
adequate privacy and protection from the elements.

3.1 M

Without immediate mitigative assistance, drought conditions will be a
key driver of mass displacement, communicable diseases, and
protection violations in the country.

Over 30,000 persons with disabilities and older persons,
will not have access to specialized or community-based
prevention and response services.

Protection monitoring services will be discontinued and
protection violations will go unreported and continue with
impunity. The most vulnerable in society will suffer, including
persons with disabilities, older persons, women, children and
persons with minority clan affiliations.

Somalis are now in acute need.

$

1.09 B

The funding forecast for 2021 is the worst
in 6 years.

$

164.2 M

At current projections, only 24% of the total
appeal will be funded by year end; a historic
low in the Somalia response.

Source: Financial Tracking
Service (FTS) as of 23 April 2021.

15%

1 100

5.9 M

3.4 million people are projected to be affected by drought by year end.

Despite increasing needs, the Humanitarian
Response Plan is only 15 per cent funded
($164.2 million).

8

children in Somalia dies
before turning 5.

HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE REMAINS A LIFE LINE

More than 80 per cent of the country is facing drought conditions.

FUNDING IS URGENTLY NEEDED

out of

Survivors of gender-based violence will not have access
to the necessary support and healthcare. Over 205,500
people, including girls and boys, will not benefit from
protection services including clinical management of rape
and psychosocial support in GBV.

REQUIRED FOR HRP

FUNDED

THE HUMAN COST OF INACTION
IS TOO HIGH.
Without early funding, humanitarian
partners will be forced to stop essential
programmes, including food assistance,
nutritional activities, effective health care
provision and livelihood support. More
Somalis will suffer, and progress achieved
over the last decade will be lost.

WHAT IS REQUIRED?
1

2

3

URGENT ACTION.

IMMEDIATE FUNDING.

ADDRESSING THE PROTECTION CRISIS.

This will help
mitigate the worst
drought impacts.

Without early funding, humanitarian
partners will be unable to address the
situation, and progress achieved over
the last decade will be destroyed.

Without an end to the ongoing active hostilities against
civilians, the crisis will deepen while humanitarian operations
will become increasingly difficult. Continued advocacy and
support from all partners on longer term political,
security and development solutions are crucial.

Creation date: 23 April 2021
Feedback: ochasomalia@un.org https://hum-insight.info/plan/1011 www.reliefweb.int/country/som www.humanitarianresponse.info/en/operations/somalia
https://fts.unocha.org/appeals/1011/summary Produced by Information Management Unit

Data visualization for
stronger advocacy
Data visualization brings data to life. Through
infographics, dashboards, interactive reports
and graphs, OCHA continues to inform users
about humanitarian responses in an effective,
powerful way.
Communicating the urgency of people’s needs
in a protracted crisis can be a difficult task.
To help remedy this, the OCHA Somalia team
developed The Cost of Inaction – a product
that transforms complex data into instant
knowledge and communicates the urgency in
a visually effective way. Other OCHA offices
have since replicated the product.

28

“The humanitarian situation in Somalia is dire. Three
decades of conflict, cyclical, extreme climate shocks,
drought, insecurity. And yet we struggle time after time to
communicate the urgency of the needs. This is why the team
decided to put this in figures. To communicate quickly and
effectively the extent of the crisis. What if we don’t act now?
What if funding doesn’t reach us on time?
What will this mean for the people of Somalia?
How many lives will be lost?”
Albert Abou-Hamra, Head of the IM Unit, OCHA Somalia

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

South Sudan

Communities were hard hit by internal violence, resulting displacement and largescale flooding (partly due to climate change).
Together with food insecurity, disease
outbreaks and COVID-19, humanitarian
needs increased.

People receive food
assistance in Pibor,

million. This accounted for 9.6 per cent of
the HRP funds received.

OCHA maintained presence in Pibor and
Kwajok to coordinate the response in Jonglei
and Warrap states during periods of increased needs. In addition to its sub-offices,
OCHA established an innovative deep-field
More than two thirds of South Sudan's pop- coordination mechanism in more than 30
ulation needed some form of humanitarian remote areas with limited presence of huassistance or protection. Some 7.2 million manitarian partners, where critical humanpeople faced food insecurity in 2021 — the itarian needs were reported. Through this, a
highest levels since the country’s independ- willing NGO or UN system member took on
ence in 2011. Of these people, 2.4 million the coordinator role, with remote support
faced acute food insecurity, which is Phase and regular field visits from OCHA.
4 or above in the Integrated Food Security
Phase Classification (IPC). They included Ninety-two staff (56 national, 36 intersome 108,000 people who faced catastroph- national) contributed to OCHA’s work in
ic levels of acute food insecurity (IPC Phase South Sudan. OCHA maintained its subna5). Through a multisectoral response, hu- tional presence through seven field offices
manitarian partners averted famine with in Bentiu, Bor, Malakal, Torit/Kuajok, Wau,
OCHA’s support.
Yambio and Yei.

Jonglei State, South
Sudan.
Credit: OCHA

The South Sudan Humanitarian Fund and
CERF proved critical, allocating some $111.4

29

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA at COP26
The climate crisis is happening now for the
most vulnerable and the least ready to adapt.
As humanitarian needs continue to outgrow
funding, support to the most vulnerable
people in fragile contexts must more decidedly contribute to building their ability to
not only withstand climate shocks but also
adapt to them.
OCHA participated in the twenty-sixth meeting
of the Conference of the Parties, or COP26,
that signed the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in
Glasgow to highlight the humanitarian cost of
the climate crisis.
OCHA organized a side event, "Getting ahead
of climatic disasters: know, predict, warn, act,"
with the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction
and the World Meteorological Organization.
OCHA organized press conferences at COP26,
which set the tone for media coverage on
humanitarian crises and their link to climate
change. One press conference was held
with the World Food Programme (WFP),
IFRC and UNHCR.
OCHA participated in two side events: “Humanitarians on the Frontlines,” organized
by IFRC and Mercy Corps, and “Losses and
Damages from Climate Change – the Role of
Finance,” organized by the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development.
SCB organized a live event with climate scientist Balgis Osman-Elasha from Sudan and
Filipino climate-justice activist Marinel Ubaldo
in the COP26 SDG Pavilion.

conflict-related displacement, primarily in
Darfur. The number of security incidents
and subnational conflict events increased
by 120 per cent.
The worsening economic crisis, including
unprecedented inflation rates that reached a
peak of 423 per cent in July, led to increased
vulnerability for millions of Sudanese
and further exacerbated the humanitarian situation.
Sudan received new arrivals of over 51,000
refugees from Ethiopia, some 81,000 from
South Sudan and some 6,500 from Eritrea.
OCHA coordinated the response to floods
and conflict, providing support to the Government and partners in line with national
emergency preparedness plans. An innovative online flood disaster dashboard was
developed for the humanitarian community. The dashboard showed affected people,
their location, the damage to their houses,
river levels and the response from sectors.
This substantially improved the availability of timely, operationally useful information. OCHA responded to conflict-related
displacement in nine states, covering the
west and southern parts of the country. A
conflict-sensitive response covered several vulnerable groups including internally
displaced persons (IDPs) and nomadic communities.
The Sudan Humanitarian Fund allocated
$55 million, making it the tenth largest
CBPF worldwide. CERF provided $6.5 million to support the response to displacements following intercommunal violence
in West Darfur.

OCHA Sudan had 97 staff (72 national, 25
international), with presence in Abyei,
2021 was characterized by the October coup Damazine, El Fasher, El Geneina, Kadugli,
d'état that stalled the political transition. Kassala, Khartoum, Nyala and Zalingei.
It resulted in a ‘pause’ on development
financing, border tensions with Ethiopia
and, despite the signing of the Juba Peace
Agreement in 2020, a sevenfold increase in
Sudan

30

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

A boy by the River
Niger in Niamey,
Niger.
Credit: OCHA/
Michele Cattani

31

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

In 2021, ROWCA ensured the establishment
of the first regionally hosted pooled fund
Regional Office for West and Central
to support effective and innovative huAfrica (ROWCA)
manitarian financing in West and Central
Over 54 million people — more than 1 person Africa. The first country envelope was estabin 10 — required assistance and protection. lished in Niger (June), followed by Burkina
Climate shocks, COVID-19, extreme pover- Faso (November).
ty, fast population growth, insecurity and
conflict caused high levels of vulnerability. Due to pandemic-related travel restrictions,
Military coup d’états in Burkina Faso, Guinea ROWCA adapted its surge strategy and supand Mali and a constitutional coup d’état port tools, alternating between remote and
in Chad deepened political instability and in-country support to offices and regional
insecurity. In vast conflict-affected regions, coordinators.
civilians faced an acute protection crisis,
with over 15 million people uprooted from ROWCA staff deployed for a total of 937 days
their homes, 2 million more than a year ago. to Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, DRC,
Ghana, Guinea, Haiti, Mali, Niger, Nigeria
Insecurity deteriorated in the Central Sahel, and Togo, including 119 days of surge in three
affecting new areas and increasing risks of deployments by three staff, and 818 days of
spillover into coastal countries. Conflict technical support in 38 missions by 21 staff.
in the Lake Chad basin continued unabated, and more regions in northern Nigeria In 2021, ROWCA had 33 staff (18 national, 15
struggled with violence. In the Democratic international) based in Dakar.
Republic of the Congo (DRC) and the Central
African Republic (CAR), protracted crises
continued to affect millions of people, with ReliefWeb turns 25
severe risks.
WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA

Violence and climate shocks were the main
drivers of a dramatic food crisis across the
region. More than 58 million people faced
severe food insecurity, almost 15 million
more people than a year ago and the highest caseload recorded since 2016. Humanitarian organizations worked to respond to
acute needs, but response plans remained
significantly underfunded, at an average of
48 per cent.
ROWCA played a critical role in responding
to emerging and deteriorating crises, providing expertise on areas including coordination, access and civil-military coordination.
The office helped strengthen emergency
preparedness in coastal countries (Benin,
Gambia, Ivory Coast, Senegal, Sierra Leone
and Togo), and it was instrumental in advocating for people in need and for more
adequate mobilization of funds.

32

Three major humanitarian crises motivated
the inception of ReliefWeb in 1996: the huge
number of refugees generated by the Yugoslav conflict in the early 1990s, the Rwandan
genocide starting in April 1994 and the Great
Lakes crisis in 1996-97. Senior humanitarian
officials realized that pooling their organizations’ resources would enable them to
better prepare for and respond to such crises.
However, the concept of data sharing among
humanitarian agencies was unpopular.
Andy Andrea, OCHA’s first Information Manager, recalled: “Information is power, so I had a
tough time convincing the various UN entities,
INGOs and NGOs that it was in their best interests to share their data for a more efficient
humanitarian response.”
Even accessing the Internet was a challenge
back then. Andrea explains: “There was one
computer in the Geneva office with Internet

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

capabilities, and we had to get the director’s
signature to be able to use it. But once we
launched [ReliefWeb], we averaged 4,0005,000 daily hits. That jumped to more than
a million a week after the vacancies section
was launched.”
Over the past 25 years, those numbers have
grown exponentially —
­ up to 15.1 million
users in 2020 and an estimated 19 million
users in 2021.
Andrea explains that above all, ReliefWeb is
a huge partnership. It has more than 3,000
information sources, and offices on three
continents; it operates 24/7; and it publishes
in English, French, Spanish, Arabic, Russian,
Chinese and now Portuguese, following the
cyclones in Mozambique in 2020.

Burkina Faso

Burkina Faso continued to confront a multi-dimensional crisis. Nearly one fifth (3.5
million people) of the national population
needed humanitarian aid, and insecurity
marked over half of the country. The reported number of security incidents rose from
211 at the end of 2019 to nearly 1,000 in 2021.
Six in ten of Central Sahel’s IDPs were in Burkina Faso, and the number of IDPs increased
by 32 per cent between December 2020 and
September 2021. Attacks and threats by nonState armed groups (NSAGs) were responsible for 83 per cent of the number of IDPs’
reason to move. Conflict also exacerbated
chronic vulnerability to climatic variance
(drought, flooding). Combined with the effects of COVID-19, this left 2.9 million people
severely food insecure.

Aminata Pitroipa,
Head of OCHA’s
sub-office in
Kaya, listens to
the experiences
and challenges of
displaced women in

Insecurity continued to hamper humanitarian access. The closure or reduced capacity of
367 health centres in seven regions affected
health-care access for more than 900,000

Kaya, Burkina Faso.
Credit: OCHA/
Olympia de
Maismont

33

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

people, while the number of school closures — while maintaining ultimate accountability
increased by 20 per cent from 2020.
to the people it serves.
Humanitarian funding increased threefold, and the number of people reached
with assistance increased by 120 per cent
since 2019. However, this was still low compared to needs.
Despite the continued deterioration of the
security environment, OCHA and the humanitarian community made considerable
efforts to extend operations, including in
hard-to-reach areas. As a result, some access improvements were achieved through
improved community engagement and collaboration across humanitarian civil-military coordination, the UN Humanitarian
Air Service (UNHAS) and logistics platforms,
for example in the Sahel and Nord regions.

Coordination challenges included engagement with NSAGs in the NWSW; security
and access concerns; the roll-out of the
humanitarian-development-peace nexus
approach in the Far North despite unabated
violence; and severe underfunding of the
humanitarian response over several years.
With 37 staff (25 national, 12 international), OCHA supported the humanitarian response through offices in the capital, the Far
North and NWSW. It maintained a robust
field presence with sub-offices in Bamenda
(North-West), Buea (South-West), Kousseri
(Far North) and Maroua.
Central African Republic

The OCHA office comprised 22 staff (16 na- The humanitarian situation reached wortional, 6 international) based in Dori, Fada, rying levels not seen since 2015. This was
due to new conflict dynamics following
Kaya, Ouagadougou and Ouahigouya.
the 2020-2021 presidential and legislative
electoral period.
Cameroon

Nine of Cameroon’s ten regions continued
to be affected by three concurrent, complex
emergencies: displacement caused by continuous violence in the Lake Chad basin and
the North-West and South-West regions
(NWSW), and the presence of over 325,000
refugees from CAR in the eastern regions.
Humanitarian needs were compounded by
structural development deficits and chronic
vulnerabilities, particularly in the Far North
and East regions, as well as by the pandemic’s socioeconomic impact.
OCHA supported the HC to promote protection and assistance for the most vulnerable
populations. It also supported the in-country humanitarian system that comprised up
to 191 actors — including 11 UN agencies, 35
international NGOs, 114 national NGOs, 4
Red Cross/Red Crescent Movement members, 6 faith-based organizations, 19 Government agencies and the donor community

34

Serious human rights abuses and violations
of international humanitarian law were reported. As a result, the number of people
who needed humanitarian assistance increased to 2.8 million — 57 per cent of the
population. The number of IDPs reached
720,000, the highest level since 2014. Despite
the volatile security context, humanitarian
actors assisted over 1.8 million people, or
97 per cent of the people covered by the
response plan.
Under OCHA’s leadership, the humanitarian
community undertook an unprecedented
consultation effort with affected communities including, for the first time, boys and
girls. Overall, 17,300 households — an 8 per
cent increase compared to 2020 — were interviewed to better target their needs. As
part of its civil-military coordination activities, OCHA established a notification system
to facilitate humanitarian operations.

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

To address the increasing and worrisome
level of sexual and gender-based violence
linked to the armed conflict, OCHA supported the HC to work on prevention-and-response strategies.
The HRP was 89 per cent funded following
OCHA CAR’s support to the HC’s strategic
resource mobilization activities.

Chad

Chad continued to face a prolonged multidimensional humanitarian crisis. This was
characterized by population displacement
due to violence, weather events (including
flooding and rainfall deficits), persistent
food insecurity, high malnutrition rates,
economic crisis and political instability.

A woman and her
son carry vegetables
to sell at the market
in Bambari, CAR.
Credit: OCHA/
Siegfried Modola

The HRP aimed to assist 4 million of 5.5 milOCHA CAR had 101 staff (70 national, 28 in- lion people in need, with a financial requireternational, 3 UNVs). It was present in Ban- ment of $617.5 million.
gui, and had four sub-offices (Bambari, Bangassou, Bouar and Kaga-Bandoro) and eight Chad was affected by heavy floods and epfield offices (Alindao, Batangafo, Berberati, idemics, including the consequences of the
Birao, Bocaranga, Bria, Paoua and Zemio).
pandemic. Over 557,000 refugees resided in
country while some 406,000 were internally
displaced — a 21 per cent increase compared
to 2020. Floods affected more than 256,000
people and 80,000 hectares of farmland
were destroyed, increasing the population’s
vulnerability. Chad welcomed some 60,000
new refugees from Cameroon following intercommunal tensions.

35

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

A view of the IDP
camp in Bijombo,
South Kivu, DRC.
Credit: OCHA/
Antoine Lemonnier

36

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA led a critical review of key issues and
processes, including Government relations,
enhancing emergency preparedness and
response, validating updated advocacy
strategies (including on protection) and
revising the strategic focus around the
humanitarian-development-peace nexus.
Essential dialogue was maintained between
humanitarians and military actors to facilitate humanitarian access and promote
humanitarian principles.

exploitation and abuse (PSEA) mechanisms,
cash programming and protection.

OCHA demonstrated flexibility and speed in
responding to new or deteriorating crises by
opening or closing sub-offices or scaling up
existing capacity. With 147 staff (112 national,
35 international), OCHA supported the response through its office in Kinshasa; field
offices in Beni, Bukavu, Bunia, Goma, Kalemie and Kananga; and mobile sub-offices in
Ituri (Drodro, Gety, Mambasa, Komanda and
With 41 staff (26 national, 15 international), Mahagi), Tshopo (Kisangani), South Kivu
OCHA supported the response through of- (Baraka, Uvira) and North Kivu (Butembo,
fices in the capital, N’Djamena, and in the Saké, Minova and Rutshuru).
east (Abeché), the west (Baga Sola) and the
south (Goré).
Mali

The humanitarian crisis in Mali worsened
Democratic Republic of the Congo
due to an increase in and expansion of interThe country’s humanitarian challenges were communal violence and attacks by NSAGs in
large and complex owing to insecurity, epi- the central, southern and western regions.
demics and limited access to basic services. This was aggravated by the political upheavals marked by a coup d'état in August 2020
At the year’s end, DRC hosted 5.5 million IDPs and May 2021 and persistent uncertainty of
— Africa’s largest IDP population. One in the political transition.
four Congolese (some 27 million people) was
severely food insecure, the largest number
of highly food insecure people in the world.

A herder who lives at
the site for refugees
in Oullam, Mali.
Credit: OCHA/
Michele Cattani

With more than 350 humanitarian partners,
OCHA coordinated assistance to more than
7 million people in need. It facilitated the
Ebola response by coordinating multisectoral support, and it increased its engagement on access and civil-military coordination to respond to increasing insecurity
in eastern DRC.
When Mount Nyiragongo erupted, OCHA
quickly established coordination structures
in all areas where displaced people gathered. The DRC Humanitarian Fund played
a critical role, allocating over $66 million,
including for the volcano response and displacement in North Kivu and Ituri. It sup- Over 90 per cent of the rural population
ported inclusion of people with disabilities lived in a conflict area or in fear that the
and strengthened protection from sexual conflict would spread to their locality. Improvised explosive devices; destroyed com-

37

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

munication antennas, bridges and roads;
villages and markets encircled by NSAGs;
and counter-insurgency military operations
all hindered people’s access to services and
livelihoods and prevented the mobility of
humanitarian personnel and commodities.

Amina Adamu
feeds her youngest
son, Muhammed
Modu, in her home
in Elminskin camp,
Maiduguri. WFP has
supported Amina
and her children
with monthly food
rations and nutrition
supplements.
Credit: OCHA/
Damilola Onafuwa

38

ing an IDP protection strategy. Civil-military
and access coordination mechanisms were
in place to protect the humanitarian space.
OCHA Mali had 51 staff (34 national, 17 international) in Bamako, Gao, Mopti, Segou and
Timbuktu, 37 per cent of whom are women,
including the DHC, and two SBPs.

Internal displacement increased by 100,000
people in 2021, reaching over 401,000 and
quadrupling the number seen two years ago.
At least 156,000 Malian refugees resided in Nigeria
neighbouring countries, while Mali hosted Ongoing conflict displaced millions of peoand provided protection and assistance to ple, devastated agricultural production and
48,000 refugees.
livelihoods, cut off essential services and
caused a protection crisis for 8.7 million
OCHA-supported coordination mechanisms people in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe (BAY
enabled humanitarian partners to reach 2.6 states). Of these people, 1.7 million were
million people of the 4.7 million targeted. internally displaced.
OCHA helped strengthen humanitarian coordination in Bamako and in the field through Hundreds of thousands of IDPs remained
the Deputy HC (DHC) stationed in Mopti.
concentrated within the perimeter of ‘garrison towns’ defended by the Nigerian armed
OCHA strengthened gender and protection forces, while an estimated 1 million people
issues across the response by working closely lived in areas inaccessible to international
with clusters and the DHC to set up an HCT humanitarian actors.
task force focused on gender, and by develop-

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

The conflict and insecurity made humanitarian operations costly, difficult and dangerous, and most operations depended on
the limited capacity of UNHAS.
The north-west, the middle belt and
north-central Nigeria also had unprecedented levels of humanitarian needs. Intercommunal conflict between herders
and farmers, criminal groups and banditry
caused large-scale displacement, and a development deficit combined with natural
hazards. A nascent secessionist movement
grew in the south-east.
A food security and nutrition crisis was
averted through concerted efforts by humanitarian partners and donors, coordinated by OCHA. These efforts were also central
in advocating for action in a major cholera
outbreak in the BAY states.

OCHA Nigeria had 76 staff (53 national, 23
international). Of the 23 international posts,
20 were based in the BAY states and three in
Abuja. Of the 53 national posts, 37 were in
the BAY states and 16 in Abuja.
Niger

The situation in Niger remained precarious,
and the population continued to bear the
brunt of climatic instability (droughts and
floods), widespread malnutrition, chronic food insecurity and epidemics, including COVID-19.
OCHA coordinated the development of the
2021 HRP and its review. At least 3.8 million
people needed humanitarian and protection
assistance, and the HRP aimed to reach 2.1
million of those people. Its financial ask of
$523.2 million was only 43 per cent funded.

A woman drags her
belongings out of
a flooded shelter
in Gamou camp,

OCHA was present in Abuja and Maiduguri The number of IDPs increased by 53 per cent
(Borno), and in two sub-offices in Yola (Ad- in Tahoua and Tillabéri regions in 12 months.
Niger hosted more than 250,000 refugees
amawa) and Damaturu (Yobe).

Niamey, Niger.
Credit: OCHA/
Michele Cattani

39

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

and asylum-seekers, with 75 per cent coming
from Nigeria, 20 per cent from Mali and 4 per
cent from Burkina Faso.
The 2021 humanitarian appeal, which did
not present an increase in needs despite
the deteriorating situation and the impact
of various shocks, was the result of better
prioritization that considered the efforts of
other stakeholders (Government, development entities).
Humanitarian access continued to be restricted in some areas due to armed entities.
Following the NSAG attack in Koure in August
2020, in which seven humanitarian workers
were killed, the Government, through its
note verbale of September 2020, made armed
escorts mandatory for the movement of humanitarian goods and personnel.
OCHA had a leading role in advocating for
humanitarian principles and revising the
note verbale, which delegated decision-making authority to subnational levels. Using the
civil-military coordination mechanism as
an enabler, OCHA facilitated access for 148
humanitarian organizations, including 14
UN agencies, 53 national NGOs, 77 international NGOs and 4 Red Cross organizations.
With 51 staff (37 national, 14 international),
OCHA supported the response through a
head office in Niamey, sub-offices in Diffa,
Maradi, Tahoua and Tillabéri, and the suboffice in Ouallam. It also supported deepfield coordination in hard-to-reach areas
through missions. The sub-offices in Tahoua
and Maradi and the head office in Niamey
monitored the humanitarian situations in
Agadez, Zinder and Dosso, respectively.

40

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Half the number of people affected by natural hazards worldwide in 2021 lived in the
Regional Office for Asia and the
Asia-Pacific region. Such events affected
Pacific (ROAP)
some 40 million people across the region, reThroughout 2021, humanitarian needs and sulting in nearly 4,400 fatalities. In Decemhuman vulnerabilities grew across Asia-Pa- ber 2021, Super Typhoon Rai (known locally
cific due to pandemic-related health and so- as Odette) affected over 11 million people
cioeconomic shocks. Over 44 million COV- in the Philippines, damaging or destroying
ID-19 cases were reported in 41 countries over 2 million houses and causing significant
in the region, with at least 695,000 deaths damage to infrastructure, agricultural land,
attributed to the disease. Even in countries fishing communities and livelihoods across
with fewer reported cases, there were severe a vast territory. In Indonesia, over 3,000 disimpacts on livelihoods, household income asters were recorded, directly affecting 7.6
and poverty, food security and access to million people and damaging approximately
medical care for non-COVID-19-related 140,000 houses and other buildings.
concerns. This included the effect on maternal and child health-care and protection The region was also home to one quarter of
concerns, including rising rates of sexual the world’s conflicts and several protracted
and gender-based violence and child pro- crises, with 4.2 million refugees across the
tection issues.
region and the world’s biggest refugee settlement in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh.
Asia-Pacific also experienced frequent natural hazards and weather-related events with Over 3.7 million IDPs were living in the
extreme impacts.
region, including almost 2.9 million IDPs
in Afghanistan. In Myanmar, over 400,000
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

OCHA’s Head
of Office in the
Philippines, Manja
Vidic, with Vin Johan
Sanchez Manlapaz,
Head of a hospital
that suffered
extensive damage
when Typhoon
Odette struck
Dinagat Island in
Caraga.
Credit: OCHA/Anna
Jefferys

41

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

A-PAD network, a
member of CBi and

people were displaced due to the situation’s staff provided 2,380 days of surge support
dramatic deterioration and increased hos- to 14 countries; this includes 1,452 days of
tilities in 2021.
in-country surge support and 923 days of
remote surge assistance.
Beyond large-scale conflict and displacement situations, such as Afghanistan and OCHA ROAP had a presence in Thailand with
Myanmar, several countries also experienced 24 staff (9 national, 15 international) in admore localized conflict and instability. For dition to HATs for DPRK with 2 staff (1 UNV,
example, sporadic armed clashes in the high- 1 international), in Indonesia with 4 staff (3
lands of Indonesia’s Papua and West Papua national, 1 international), in Japan with 2
Provinces resulted in 44 deaths, including 15 staff (1 national, 1 international), in Pakistan
personnel from the police and armed forc- with 8 staff (7 national, 1 international) and
es. In the Philippines, some 115,000 people in the Philippines with 9 staff (8 national, 1
were displaced in Mindanao due to conflict, international).
including 3,300 people displaced by conflict
in December alone.

a leading Sri Lankan
telecommunications
private sector
entity, circulated
early warning
messages to at-risk
communities in
the outskirts of the
Kelani river basin in
2021.
Credit: A-PAD SL

42

Despite ongoing pandemic-related access
restrictions, ROAP staff deployed to emergencies in Afghanistan, Myanmar, Pakistan
and the Philippines. ROAP also provided outof-region surge to Burkina Faso, Ethiopia
and Haiti. Due to ongoing pandemic-related access restrictions, ROAP staff provided remote support to countries including
Bangladesh, DPR Korea (DPRK), Timor Leste,
Nepal and Papua New Guinea. Twenty-four

Connecting Business
initiative reached more
than 1 million people

The Connecting Business initiative (CBi), a
joint partnership with OCHA and the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
continued to support the private sector to

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

prepare for, respond to and recover from
emergencies.
CBi Member Networks reached more than 1
million people during responses to the pandemic, the earthquake in Haiti, Typhoon Rai in
the Philippines, drought in Madagascar, floods
in Sri Lanka and other crises. The networks
collected and distributed more than $7.2
million in cash and in-kind assistance, including ready-to-eat meals, water, mobile phone
credits and cargo transport.
The Philippine Disaster Resilience Foundation (PDRF), a CBi Member Network, actively
engaged in the humanitarian response to
Typhoon Rai. As the only private sector organization to sit in a HCT, PDRF worked closely
with the UN system and the humanitarian
community during the response. It monitored
the crisis through its unique business-led
Emergency Operations Centre, deployed
teams on the ground, and mobilized more
than $6 million in financial donations and inkind contributions.
Following the earthquake in Haiti in August,
the Alliance for Risk Management and Busi-

ness Continuity (AGERCA), a CBi Member
Network, supported the Government-led response. In addition to financial contributions,
AGERCA member companies and partners
made critical in-kind donations including
thousands of gallons of drinking water,
clothes and solar-powered refrigerators.
The CBi secretariat supported Member
Networks’ response activities through
coordination, communication and technical
advice. CBi also supported Member Networks’
disaster preparedness and recovery activities,
including cash transfers in Vanuatu, business
continuity training in Türkiye and Fiji, and
search-and-rescue training in Sri Lanka.
Through its funding facility, CBi helped Member Networks invest in support for micro-,
small- and medium-sized enterprises, climate
action, anticipatory projects and private sector coordination.

OCHA staff talk with
Ihsanullah at a food
distribution point.
He told them he will
bring the food home

Indonesia and Viet Nam joined CBi in
2021, bringing the number of Member
Networks to 13.

to his 11 siblings
before he goes to
school.
Credit: OCHA/Sayed
Habib Bidel

43

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Afghanistan

Following the Taliban takeover in August,
the already dire humanitarian situation in
Afghanistan rapidly deteriorated. This was
primarily due to severe economic contractions and crippled banking and financial
systems, compounded by the worst drought
in 27 years. Twenty-three million people
faced acute hunger, almost 9 million of
whom were at emergency levels (IPC 4).

OCHA played a central role in advocating for
and supporting humanitarian partners and
people in need in a highly volatile political
and security environment.

The number of people in need rose from 1
million in January to 3 million in mid-2021
to 14.4 million by the year’s end. Food insecurity was the most significant driver of
this increase, while the geographic scope
of need expanded from three states to the
The 2021 update of the multi-year Afghani- entire country, with sharp increases in need
stan HRP aimed to assist 17.7 million people in the south-east and the north-west, and in
with the support of OCHA’s coordination Kachin and Shan states. OCHA led planning
activities across all sectors. By the year’s end, with humanitarian partners to ensure that
humanitarian actors had assisted 19.6 mil- plans for 2021 and 2022 reflected the new
lion people across the country’s 397 (of 401) level and scope of need.
districts. This was 2 million more people than
humanitarians planned to reach last year.
By the year’s end, more than 320,000 people
were displaced by violence following the
Most of this reach was largely achieved by military takeover, in addition to the more
the scale-up in food assistance, particular- than 350,000 people who had been and rely since September 2021. This significant mained displaced prior to February. Access
achievement was made possible by the to many of those in need remained limited,
IASC’s decision in September to activate sys- particularly in conflict-affected areas.
tem-wide scale-up protocols for Afghanistan,
which resulted in additional support and OCHA continued to lead engagement with
expedited processes.
all relevant parties to facilitate access to
communities in need, advocating at State
With 84 staff members (68 national, 16 and union levels.
international) and 4 SBPs, OCHA operated through its Kabul country office, with The Myanmar Humanitarian Fund supportsub-offices in Jalalabad (east), Kandahar ed local humanitarian initiatives, providing
(south), Hirat (west), Mazar (north) and just over $20 million for 45 projects in 2021.
Kunduz (north-east), and field offices in Almost one third of the funds went to naFaizabad and Maimana. The sub-office for tional partners.
central, central highlands and the south-east
operates from the country office. Some 20 With 58 staff (12 national, 46 international),
surge staff deployed to support the Afghani- OCHA supported humanitarian operations
stan response, mainly following the Taliban through its main office in Yangon, sub-oftakeover on 15 August.
fices in Lashio, Myitkyina and Sittwe, and a
liaison unit in Nay Pyi Taw.
Myanmar

The situation deteriorated significantly in
2021 following a military takeover in February. It precipitated a countrywide increase in
conflict, violence and displacement as well
as a massive economic downturn, all while
the pandemic ravaged fragile communities.

44

Office of the Pacific (OoP)

Based in Fiji, OCHA OoP covers 14 countries:
Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia
(FSM), Fiji, Kiribati, Republic of the Marshall
Islands (RMI), Nauru, Niue, Palau, Samoa,

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu
and Vanuatu.

This platform (the PHT Principals forum
chaired by the three RCs, and the PHT inter-cluster coordination group chaired by
Due to the pandemic, OoP continued rea- OCHA) is the humanitarian mechanism to
ligning its programming areas in 2021. This respond to disasters collectively.
meant that most preparedness-and-response activities — except those in Fiji Regular meetings (approximately every two
— were carried out remotely due to travel weeks in response time) ensured a comprerestrictions and lockdowns. This proved hensive understanding of the region’s preparticularly constraining, as OCHA did not vailing humanitarian situation, the proper
have staff presence in 12 of the 14 coun- and timely support of Governments and
tries covered.
humanitarian partners on the ground, and
the implementation of a timely, needs-based
Although most areas of the Pacific had ad- and principled humanitarian response.
justed to the ‘new normal’, the pandemic
brought many challenges, as the economic The UN system in the Pacific was modified
downturn continued due to the quasi-col- through the establishment of a third Mullapse of the tourism industry, limited oppor- ti-Country Office (MCO) Micronesia, with its
tunities for seasonal workers to travel abroad, own UN RC, allowing for greater focus and
and steadily changing pandemic protocols coordinated support to the North Pacific. It
throughout the region.
became functional in October 2021 and covers FSM, Kiribati, Nauru, Palau and RMI. This
Some countries that were initially free from also meant that the MCO Fiji was reduced
the pandemic experienced COVID-19 cases from 10 to five countries, now responsible
and others through communal transmission for Fiji, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu
(e.g., a severe spike in Fiji from April 2021). and Vanuatu. The MCO Samoa remains the
This affected mission travel and in-country same, covering Cook Islands, Niue, Samoa
support of National Disaster Management and Tokelau.
Offices (NDMOs) — OCHA’s prime interlocutors in the Pacific — and humanitari- At the end of 2021, there were seven staff
an partners (UN agencies, NGOs and line (three national, two international and
ministries).
two national UNVs) for OoP in Suva, and
one national staff for the OoP satellite of2021 saw growing traction of OCHA’s man- fice in Samoa.
dated work with other Pacific countries besides the five most disaster-prone countries
(Fiji, Vanuatu, Solomon Islands, Samoa and
Tonga), with increased preparedness work
throughout the Pacific region despite pandemic-related challenges.
In the context of supporting national Governments’ response and preparedness, OoP
continued working closely with NDMOs in
coordination, IM, and preparedness-and-response capacity.
OoP continued to function as the secretariat
for the Pacific Humanitarian Team (PHT) –
comprising UN agencies, NGOs and IFRC.

45

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA staff member
Laura Solórzano
talks to a family
affected by floods
in north-east
Guatemala.
Credit: OCHA

46

Due to the compounded effects of the pandemic, Hurricanes Eta and Iota, and linRegional Office for Latin America and the
gering inequality, protection and socioecoCaribbean (ROLAC)
nomic issues, ROLAC led the development of
Humanitarian needs increased in Lat- three first-time HRPs for the North of Central
in America and the Caribbean (LAC), the America (El Salvador, Guatemala and Honworld’s second-most disaster-prone region duras), with a total funding requirement
and the region with the most inequality, with of $588 million to assist 4.3 million people.
26.4 million people in need in 2021 (up from
9.6 million in 2018).
The progressive COVID-19 vaccine roll-out
in LAC and the subsequent lifting of travThis increase was partly due to the rising el restrictions gave way to renewed surge
frequency and intensity of sudden-onset deployments in 2021. ROLAC staff carried
events and recurrent climate shocks, the out 55 missions, including to Guatemala
devastating impacts of the pandemic, and and Honduras after storms Eta and Iota;
challenging socioeconomic conditions that Saint Vincent and the Grenadines for the
have left 287 million people in poverty or La Soufrière volcanic eruption; Haiti after
extreme poverty.
the earthquake in the southern departments;
and Equatorial Guinea.
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

ROLAC provided demand-driven support
to UN RCs and UNCTs confronting spikes
in mixed movements, and it actively participated in the UN’s Issue-Based Coalition on
Human Mobility in the region.

tion agenda and provided direct funding to
21 national NGOs (out of a total of 30).
OCHA consolidated its analytical capacity
and presence with 21 staff in Caracas (13
national, 8 international) and 24 in field
locations (21 national, 3 international). The
field locations include Ciudad Guayana, Maracaibo and San Cristobal.

ROLAC employed 40 staff (28 national, 12
international, including 4 national and 2
international UNVs) located in its regional
office in Panama; 2 national staff in each of
the HATs (Barbados, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Peru), as well as one Colombia
national staff each in Bolivia and Mexico Humanitarian needs continued to deteriosupporting the region.
rate due to the expansion of NSAGs, resulting
in over 73,000 people displaced by armed
violence ­— the highest reported cases in
Venezuela
over a decade. Food security, nutrition and
More than 7 million Venezuelans continued poverty worsened.
to need humanitarian assistance. This was
driven by eight years of economic contrac- Needs increased due to natural hazards, bortion, episodes of hyperinflation, institutional der violence with Venezuela, and a massive
challenges and political polarization.
influx of transcontinental migrants and
refugees that stretched national response
COVID-19 compounded the situation with capacity. Indigenous communities were
rising costs of food and essential non-food particularly affected.
items, resulting in increased hardship for the
most vulnerable people. Food security and
nutrition remained key concerns.

Darío Macedo and
his wife, María Ester
Machín, belong
to the Cocama
Indigenous group,
who live along the
Amazon River in
Colombia.
Credit: OCHA/
Yohana Pantevis

OCHA coordinated health, protection, and
water, sanitation and hygiene assistance to
more than 3.8 million people across Venezuela. The HCT’s implementation of the
access strategy was an important milestone
to expand humanitarian operational space.
OCHA was key in strengthening NGO capacity through extensive training opportunities.
Partners and donors worked closely to track
the response plan’s progress.
Advocacy and communication efforts increased humanitarian funding: $374.4 million was raised, representing a 44 per cent
increase from 2020.

NSAGs’ territorial expansion resulted in 40
per cent of municipalities (7 million people) living under their control. Eighty-eight
massacres were reported, often leading to
mass displacements, largely affecting ethnic
The Venezuela Humanitarian Fund sur- groups. Increased cases of forced confinepassed its funding target and allocated $11.5 ment and mobility restrictions imposed by
million in 2021, reaching 132,000 people. It armed groups were also reported.
also contributed to advancing the localiza-

47

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Natural hazards affected over 540,000 people. CERF funding ($2 million) provided
life-saving support to some 156,000 people
affected by floods in the La Mojana subregion.

Following the
earthquake in Haiti,
UN teams evaluate
damage to buildings
and interview
residents about their
needs in Les Cayes.
Credit: OCHA/Matteo
Minasi

48

Haiti

The security situation continued to deteriorate due to gang violence, hampering
people’s access to life-saving services.
President Moïse’s assassination in July and
OCHA increased monitoring of mass dis- other events exposed the failings of State
placements and confinements across the authorities. Political, human rights, economcountry and coordinated response efforts. ic and humanitarian crises intersected and
This included adjusting its presence based on accentuated insecurity and instability.
field dynamics, such as opening a new office
in Cauca due to a rapid increase in needs.
The 7.2-magnitude earthquake that struck
Haiti on 14 August, followed by Tropical
With OCHA’s support, the HCT scaled up its Cyclone Grace, killed 2,248 people, injured
response and reached some 2.1 million peo- 12,763 and forced 39,000 to seek temporary
ple — up from 1.6 million in 2020 — despite shelter. Some 800,000 people needed huthe HRP being only 39 per cent funded.
manitarian assistance, which exacerbated
existing vulnerabilities.
OCHA had 31 staff (29 national, 2 international).
An estimated 4.4 million Haitians, over 40
per cent of the population, required emer-

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

gency assistance. In September, 4.3 million
Haitians were acutely food insecure (IPC 3+).
While Haiti was not hit as hard by the pandemic as expected, vaccinating the population remained a challenge, with the country
having the lowest vaccination rate in the LAC
region (less than 1 per cent).
OCHA increased its role in ensuring effective
humanitarian coordination among all organizations at the strategic and operational levels. Two successive UNDAC teams were deployed, and ASG a.i. Rajasingham launched
a Flash Appeal in Port-au-Prince in August.
OCHA supported Haitian authorities in coordinating the response to the earthquake and
violence-related emergencies. Thirty-five
UNDAC members were deployed, in addition to 14 surge deployments and 6 SBPs.
OCHA coordinated the implementation
of three CERF Rapid Response allocations
totalling $12.9 million to respond to earthquake-induced needs and those of IDPs
displaced by violence.
OCHA set up a Humanitarian Access Working
Group, supported the creation of a Gender
Equality Working Group and initiated the
revitalization of the Accountability Working
Group. OCHA and partners also coordinated
the return of Haitian refugees from the LAC
region throughout 2021.
The OCHA office comprised 14 staff (11 national, 3 international) and benefited from
14 surge deployments. In October 2021, an
OCHA field office was set up in Les Cayes.

49

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

advocate for civilians’ increased freedom
of movement during the extended closures
Ukraine
caused by pandemic-related restrictions.
The pandemic exacerbated humanitarian OCHA also advanced many key protection
needs caused by almost seven years of armed issues with the Government, such as supconflict in eastern Ukraine, leaving some 3.4 porting digitalization via phone apps to almillion people in need of assistance. Pan- low IDPs to virtually verify their residency
demic-related restrictions were imposed on despite movement restrictions.
the movement of people across the “contact
line,” causing a 97 per cent drop in the num- OCHA continued to manage the Ukraine
ber of people crossing.
Humanitarian Fund, allocating $11.3 million to 30 projects to support the pandemic
The closure of the crossing points prevented response and winterization. From January
most people from reaching administrative to September, OCHA coordinated the efforts
and medical services or accessing pen- of 56 humanitarian partners to assist more
sions and cash in Government-controlled than 1 million people on both sides of the
areas (GCA).
contact line.
EUROPE

The ceasefire that came into effect in July
2020 led to a 14 per cent reduction in civilian
casualties, but no political solution to the
conflict was apparent.
Humanitarian access remained a significant
challenge in the non-Government-controlled areas (NGCA). OCHA continued to

Residents of
Pishchevik, eastern
Ukraine, arrive
with empty bottles
to collect water
at a distribution
site located at a
closed checkpoint.
UNICEF provides
the drinking water
in cooperation with
charity organization
Adventist
Development and
Relief Agency.
Credit: UNICEF/
Volskyi

50

OCHA had 43 staff (35 national, 8 international), 1 national UNV and 1 SBP. It
maintained a national office in Kyiv and
subnational offices in Kramatorsk and
Sievierodonetsk (GCA) and Donetsk and
Luhansk (NGCA).

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

UNCTs in rolling out the IASC Emergency
Response Preparedness approach. The team
Regional Office for the Middle East and North
renewed previously active partnerships with
Africa (ROMENA)
the League of Arab States (LAS), Türkiye’s
The region was home to some of the world’s disaster and management agency, AFAD, and
largest and most complex humanitarian cri- the National Disaster Management Organises. A combination of conflict hostilities, eco- zation in Iran, as their capabilities in carrying
nomic contraction and political instability out disaster management activities were
drove up humanitarian and protection needs affected by the pandemic over the past two
in Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, occupied Palestinian years. ROMENA initiated new partnerships
territory (oPt), Syria and Yemen. The situa- with think tanks, namely Al-Ahram Center
tion was compounded by natural hazards for Political and Strategic Studies and Natusuch as earthquakes, droughts and floods. ral Disaster Research Institute in Iran.
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

Eleven staff members (five national, six international) deployed for a total of 620 days
to support emergency response efforts in
ongoing crises. This included 198 days for
support to Syria (86 days in Damascus, 77
in the Regional Office for the Syria Crisis and
35 days in Gaziantep), 125 days for Lebanon,
147 days for Afghanistan, 78 days for Libya
and 72 days for Yemen. One staff member
supported the Office of the USG in New York
for 107 days.

ROMENA supported the establishment of
the Lebanon Emergency Response Plan
2021-2022.

In terms of capacity-building, ROMENA conducted eight training events, including an IM
workshop for 30 technical staff from the King
Salman Center; two humanitarian action
workshops with LAS; a regional workshop on
international humanitarian law and the humanitarian notification system; training on
contextualized Multi-Cluster/Sector Initial
Due to pandemic-related travel restrictions, Rapid Assessment in Iran; a training workseven ROMENA staff provided full-time re- shop in collaboration with the Kuwaiti Red
mote surge support to regional crises for a Crescent; and training for public information
total of 621 days, including Syria (209 days officers in the MENA region.
for Gaziantep), Lebanon (184 days), Libya
(120 days), Yemen (70 days) and Syria (38 The IM team helped OCHA Libya to build
days) in addition to extensive ad hoc support. a comprehensive geospatial information
services platform to monitor the areas of
ROMENA supported the Humanitarian Pro- influence in different parts of Libya, and it
gramme Cycle (HPC) in Yemen, Libya and provided training to manage, update and
Syria with assessment and planning pro- use the platform.
cesses. The team contributed to regional
analysis and strengthening regional-level ROMENA comprised 28 staff (20 napartnerships, including the Regional Gender tional, 8 international) working from
in Humanitarian Action Working Group in Egypt and Jordan.
the Arab States/MENA. It also supported
climate-related regional workstreams, including engagement with the Inter-Agency
Task Force on Climate Change, Peace and
Security in the MENA region.
Three scoping missions were conducted
to Iran, Tunisia and Türkiye to support respective Resident Coordinator Offices and

51

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Yemen

More than 20 million people continued to
need humanitarian assistance and protection. Most of these needs were driven by the
country’s ongoing economic collapse — itself a result of more than six years of conflict.

A surge in funding early in the year allowed
agencies to scale up programmes that were
scaled back in 2020. By midyear, partners
were reaching more than 12 million people
with assistance across the country every
month. However, funds were lagging by
the third quarter, forcing agencies to start
scaling down again by the year’s end. In
December, WFP announced the reduction
of food rations for 8 million people.

on agreed benchmarks. Throughout the year,
OCHA maintained strong levels of support
for the aid operation, working with about
200 national and international humanitarian partners and facilitating coordination
forums, including the Inter-Cluster Coordination Mechanism, the HCT, and working
groups on access, IM and public information.
CERF allocated $40 million to support the
response to escalating conflict in Ma’rib,
while the Yemen Humanitarian Fund allocated $109 million to support aid operations
across the country.

By the year’s end, OCHA Yemen had 107
staff (72 national, 35 international). This
includes 96 staff serving in nine locations
Agencies continued to face serious obstacles inside Yemen (Aden, Al Hodeidah, Al Turin delivering principled humanitarian assis- bah, Ibb, Ma’rib, Makha, Mukallah, Sa’ada
tance. These obstacles persisted across the and Sana’a), as well as six who were part of
country, but they remained the most severe a donor engagement and support team in
in areas controlled by the Houthi de facto Amman, Jordan, and five who are part of a
authorities.
Riyadh-based team that continued to oversee the humanitarian notification system.
With strong support from OCHA, agencies
and donors continued working together to
address these obstacles and track progress

Distribution of
WFP assistance
in Al-Hudaydah
Governorate, Yemen.
Credit: OCHA/
Abdullah Al-Halaby

52

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Capturing
Yemenis’ resilience
To shine a spotlight on Yemen, OCHA produced a photo series by award-winning
photojournalist Giles Clarke. Clarke travelled
to Yemen to document life for ordinary people
trapped in violent conflict. The portraits,
promoted through a digital campaign and featured in The New York Times, captured the resilience, hopes and dreams of Yemeni children,
women and men as they look towards a future
without war. The portraits are the centrepiece
of an advocacy campaign that calls for the
humanitarian needs of all Yemenis to be met.

Regional Office for the Syria Crisis (ROSC)

More than 10 years into the crisis, the scale,
severity and complexity of humanitarian
needs and protection risks of the Syrian people remain extensive. An estimated 13.4 million people needed humanitarian assistance,
including 4.51 million who required urgent
aid. The impact of present and past hostilities on civilians remained the principal driver
of humanitarian needs, exacerbated by a

sharply deteriorating economic situation,
COVID-19 and environmental shocks.
ROSC provided support in policy, planning
and operational coordination, inclusive of all
response modalities, as well as administrative services to humanitarian organizations
across the ‘Whole of Syria’ response.
In support of the Regional HC for Syria, ROSC
brought together humanitarian organizations working from within and outside Syria
to develop a shared analysis, common objectives and a collective focus on results.
ROSC enhanced its engagement and coor-

dination with key regional stakeholders in
the response, namely UN Regional Directors,
international NGOs, Member States and
donors. It supported regular strategic and
operational coordination forums, including a
Strategic Steering Group that brings together
national and international humanitarian
organizations to provide overall direction
to the operation.

Credit: OCHA/Giles
Clarke

53

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

ROSC maintained a leadership role in ensuring a common needs analysis, a single
response plan and appeal, regular prioritization of critical funding gaps, and a common
approach to global priority areas and critical
challenges facing the response, including
AAP, PSEA, GBV response, disability, cash,
gender and age.

OCHA supported the country team in risk
management and due diligence efforts to
enhance transparency and contribute to
confidence-building related to the response.
OCHA Syria had 74 staff (61 national, 13 international).

ROSC had 32 staff (17 national, 11 interna- Syria OCHA Operation in Türkiye
tional, 2 Junior Professional Officers and 2 Of the 4.4 million people living in the northsecondments) based in Amman, Jordan.
west, an estimated 3.4 million needed humanitarian assistance. Some 2.8 million
people were estimated to be displaced, with
Syria
1.7 million, primarily women and children,
Humanitarian organizations operating from living in displacement sites.
within Syria continued scaling up their response to address rising needs. The Damas- Despite a March ceasefire agreement, hostilicus-based operation reached an average of ties continued to claim civilian lives through4.5 million people each month, including out the year, while explosive hazards and
around 4 million people who received food, clashes between armed groups heightened
800,000 people who received nutrition sup- the security challenges facing civilians, inport and 3.1 million children who benefited cluding humanitarian workers. June saw the
largest escalation of hostilities, leading to
from education assistance.
more than 40,000 people displaced.
OCHA was pivotal in negotiating access to
people in need on behalf of the humanitar- OCHA continued to coordinate the cross-borian community. It also coordinated targeted der response into north-west Syria from
assistance plans suited to the unique cir- Türkiye. With different parts of Syria concumstances of different parts of the country, trolled by various parties to the conflict, the
including cross-line assistance to non-Gov- UN cross-border response was authorized
ernment-controlled areas of north-west Syr- to deliver aid to people in need by Security
ia from Government-controlled areas, Al Hol Council resolution 2165 (2014) and subsecamp in the north-east and Rukban in the quent resolutions. The cross-border mechsouth. Despite pandemic-related challenges, anism remains a vital lifeline for delivering
OCHA carried out numerous inter-agency humanitarian assistance to millions of peoassessments throughout the year, gener- ple in north-west Syria.
ating a clearer picture of the differentiated
needs of women, girls, boys and men. It also The OCHA-coordinated cross-border recontinued advocating with all stakeholders sponse delivered life-saving aid to an avfor protection and assistance for the most erage of 2.4 million people per month in
vulnerable people where they were, based north-west Syria in 2021. This was despite
strictly on need.
challenges posed by renewed hostilities and
operational uncertainty around the extenOCHA allocated $66 million for humanitari- sion of the authorization for UN cross-border
an programming through the Syria Humani- assistance in July.
tarian Fund in 2021, including allocations to
address new humanitarian needs generated Almost 10,000 truck journeys brought
by the worsening socioeconomic situation. life-saving assistance to communities in

54

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

north-west Syria. Following access negotiations supported by OCHA Türkiye, two crossline convoys were deployed to non-Government-controlled areas, carrying food and
nutrition assistance for 43,500 people as
well as other multisectoral assistance. These
were the first cross-line missions since 2017.
In December, after setting up a new distribution system, aid began reaching people in
need. The Syria Cross-Border Humanitarian
Fund disbursed $151 million for 153 projects.

OCHA helped ensure that the ongoing humanitarian response in Jordan continued to
address long-standing and emerging needs.
Within the UNHCR-led refugee response and
the Whole of Syria structure, OCHA supported the RC/HC in meeting global humanitarian accountabilities. Priorities included
strengthening humanitarian coordination
structures and advocacy, progressing humanitarian-development collaboration, and
bringing the humanitarian community together to address sexual exploitation and
OCHA Türkiye had 36 staff (23 national, 13 in- abuse (SEA) in the aid sector.
ternational) primarily in Gaziantep. A liaison
office in Ankara supported close engagement The pandemic exacerbated hardships among
with Turkish authorities.
refugees and vulnerable Jordanians alike.
OCHA supported a contingency planning
exercise that analysed projected needs, inJordan
cluding in health, protection and livelihoods,
More than a decade since the Syria crisis and it encouraged a stronger interface bebegan, over 1 million Syrians remained in tween humanitarian and development acJordan, comprising nearly 10 per cent of tion. OCHA also liaised and advocated with
the population.
the Government of Jordan, the Jordanian

In December, heavy
rains in north-west
Syria damaged
displacement camps
in Kafr Arouq, north
of Idlib.
Credit: OCHA/Bilal
Al-Hammoud

55

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

military, international coalition forces and
UN partners to support IDPs in the Rukban
area, on the Syria-Jordan border. It also provided support to the Jordan, Israel and Palestine project, an initiative to bolster disaster
preparedness and response.

of Hope online festival at New York’s Carnegie
Hall, and the photography was featured at the
International Festival of Photojournalism's
Visa pour L'image, in Perpignan, France.

Iraq

The humanitarian context remained precarThe Jordan Humanitarian Fund directed ious. Since the conclusion of the large-scale
funding to UN, NGO and Red Cross part- military operations against the Islamic State
ners for urgent priorities, allocating $2.02 of Iraq and the Levant in 2017, significant
million in 2021.
reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts had
restored roads, re-established local markets,
OCHA Jordan had 14 staff (11 national, 3 in- regenerated public infrastructure, and rebuilt housing, health facilities and schools.
ternational) based in Amman.

A dream for Syria
To mark a decade of conflict in Syria, OCHA
teamed up with Yo-Yo Ma’s Silk Road Ensemble to create I wish it had been a dream,
a four-minute Soundscape that mixed 100
self-recorded messages from people inside
Syria with music from renowned Syrian
clarinettist and Silk Road artist Kinan Azmeh.
Accompanying the music was a curated photography series from the 10-year archives of
16 Syrian photographers, most of whom are
still in Syria. Their personally selected images
and handwritten captions provided a unique
portrayal of the crisis and an inside look into
the lives of Syrians during 10 years of conflict.
Azmeh performed the piece during the Voices

Credit: OCHA/
Bassam Khabieh

56

However, there was no significant improvement in the humanitarian situation for
millions of IDPs and returnees. Of the 6.1
million people displaced between 2014 and
2017, about 1.2 million remained internally
displaced, 67 per cent of whom were displaced during the first 15 months of the crisis.
The remaining displaced people, most of
them outside formal camps, continued to
face significant challenges finding durable
solutions. Many of those who have returned
struggle with limited access to services and
livelihoods amid high levels of social, political and security tensions in areas of return.
The Government of Iraq and the UN signed
the first UN Sustainable Development Co-

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

operation Framework in September, with a
focus on advancing durable solutions to end
the displacement crisis. Amid a changing
context, increasing focus on durable solutions, and decreasing humanitarian capacities and funding, the humanitarian community significantly revised its processes to
determine humanitarian needs and ensure
stricter prioritization for programming.
The OCHA-managed Iraq Humanitarian
Fund allocated $25.4 million to 21 implementing partners through its standard
and reserve allocations, targeting at least
642,000 people across nine governorates.
With 64 staff (43 national, 20 international
and 1 international UNV), OCHA maintained
an agile and strategic footprint in Iraq.

2021 Global
Humanitarian Policy Forum
In partnership with the United Nations Foundation, OCHA convened the tenth Global Humanitarian Policy Forum (GHPF) in December.
This marked OCHA’s third year of working
with the UN Foundation on the two-day GHPF,
and the second year that the event was
virtual. Hosted on Zoom and live streamed on
Twitter, GHPF secured more than 2,000 views
from over 110 countries.
The forum assessed the current landscape
through thematic, interactive panel discussions on the growing humanitarian climate
crisis, persistent challenges around access
and humanitarian negotiations, increasing
cyberthreats affecting humanitarian action,
the links between COVID-19 and conflict, and
the importance of vaccines in humanitarian settings.

Lebanon

The socioeconomic and financial crisis affecting Lebanese and non-Lebanese communities across the country further accelerated. This was due to the pandemic, the
consequences of the Beirut Port explosions,
delays in essential reforms and the continued impact of the Syrian crisis.
OCHA coordinated the development of a
12-month inter-agency Emergency Response
Plan (ERP) under the leadership of the HC
and the HCT. The plan complemented the
UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
Refugees in the Near East programmes and
the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan.
Since August 2021, Lebanon has suffered severe electricity and fuel shortages. As part of
the ERP, OCHA coordinated an exceptional
time-bound, gap-filling fuel distribution to
keep critical health-care and water services
operational across all districts. OCHA also
ensured the provision of life-saving services
to the most vulnerable Lebanese, Palestine
refugees and migrants. Due to the deteriorating situation, OCHA conducted a multisectoral needs analysis in collaboration with
sectors and the humanitarian data initiative,
REACH. This enabled an in-depth analysis
of humanitarian needs to inform ongoing
humanitarian response.
In 2021, the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund
launched four multisectoral allocations totalling $25.3 million.
OCHA had 18 staff (11 national, 7 international) in its office in Beirut.

57

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

occupied Palestinian territory

A protracted protection crisis continued in
oPt, leaving many Palestinians struggling
to live a life with dignity. The crisis is characterized by Israel’s military occupation
and the blockade on the Gaza Strip, a lack
of respect for international law, continuing
internal Palestinian divisions, and recurrent
escalations of hostilities between Israel and
Palestinian armed groups.

through emergency food assistance, shelter
rehabilitation, water and sanitation, and
pandemic response.

OCHA supported the HC and the humanitarian community to mobilize an immediate system-wide response for the Gaza
escalation in May. Quick action was taken
to provide people in Gaza with urgent assistance, such as water, food and essential
items, and to resume fuel deliveries to the
In Gaza, 2021 saw the most serious escala- Gaza power plant.
tion of hostilities between Palestinian armed
factions and Israeli forces since 2014. The These activities were carried out by 56 staff
conflict caused significant damage and (46 national, 10 international) based in East
loss of life, and deepened poverty and Jerusalem and sub-offices in Gaza, Hebron,
aid dependency.
Nablus and Ramallah.
In the West Bank, including in East Jerusalem, there was a continuation of Israeli
settlement activity, loss of land, movement
restrictions, property destruction, and restricted access to basic services and livelihoods. There were continued concerns
about Israeli soldiers’ use of excessive force,
including during protests and search and
arrest operations, that resulted in the death
or injury of Palestinians.

Needs increased due to the pandemic and
the Palestinian Authority’s worsening fiscal
situation. Nearly half of oPt’s population of
5.3 million people needed assistance. Vulnerable families struggled to cope with poverty,
food insecurity, unemployment and inadequate access to essential services (health
care, water, sanitation and education).

Libya

Libya witnessed positive developments
throughout the year, most notably a cessation of hostilities, which helped to improve
the humanitarian situation, especially for
the return of displaced people to their homes
(reducing from 426,000 people in June 2020
to 212,000 people by August 2021). However, concerns remained about a lack of basic
services, and explosive hazard contamination, particularly around southern Tripoli,
hindered further progress.
As the conflict diminished, the pandemic’s
impact increased exponentially. It brought
the health system to the point of collapse,
and shortages of health workers, medical
supplies and personal protective equipment
resulted in further closures of health facilities
and significant socioeconomic repercussions.

Humanitarian partners faced significant
constraints due to record-low funding,
movement restrictions and unsubstan- Given unfolding political and economic
tiated claims that delegitimize humani- developments, the 2021 HRP was extendtarian action.
ed through the end of 2022. An estimated
800,000 people needed humanitarian assisThe OCHA-managed oPt Humanitarian tance, down from 1.3 million (or a 36 per cent
Fund allocated over $27.8 million to sup- reduction). Key humanitarian needs were
port life-sustaining activities, including linked to protection, access to critical ser-

58

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

vices such as health care and education, safe
drinking water and sanitation, and access to
basic household goods and commodities, including food and essential household items.
The conditions for migrants and refugees
remained precarious, with thousands arbitrarily detained in inhumane conditions and
many more attempting the Mediterranean
Sea crossing, often at the cost of their lives.
OCHA Libya maintained critical staff capacity in the country throughout the year.
With 29 staff (18 national, 11 international),
it supported the response by maintaining a
field-based presence through its head office;
coordination capacity in Tripoli for the west;
an expanded presence in Benghazi in the
east; and a national staff member in Sebha
in the south.

Fathi Mazen's farm
in Al-Zahra, Libya,
has dried up over
the years due to
long dry spells
caused by climate
change.
Credit: OCHA/Ahmed
Rih

59

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Building on anticipatory
action pilots
Today, the humanitarian community is better placed to anticipate and respond ahead
of predictable crises, especially those caused
by climate-related shocks. This helps in providing timely assistance to vulnerable people
and mitigating the impact of crises. Recent
advances in forecasting, data availability
and the humanitarian sector’s capacity have
made this possible.
In 2021, OCHA continued supporting the
collective scale-up of anticipatory action.
In addition to pilots already in place for
Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Somalia, OCHA
facilitated and finalized anticipatory action
frameworks for dry spells in Malawi, floods
in Nepal and storms in the Philippines. Together, all finalized pilots provided humanitarian assistance to more than 4 million people ahead of predictable humanitarian crises.

In Somalia, CERF financed an anticipatory
action pilot that provided cash assistance to
almost 100,000 families over three months
ahead of the drought. The funds could, for
example, enable the families to repair boreholes, vaccinate livestock and access mobile health teams. Acting earlier saved costs
and assisted more families. Dignity kits and
menstrual hygiene kits were distributed to
7,500 women and girls, improving protection
against GBV.

In September, a high-level event to advance
anticipatory action brought together ministers and senior officials from 75 UN Member
States, and leaders from 60 international
civil-society organizations (CSOs), the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, UN entities, international financial
institutions and the private sector. Fifteen
countries made financial pledges supporting
More evidence is still required on the ap- anticipatory action, while 21 countries made
plicability and value of anticipatory action. non-financial pledges, expressing interest
However, the results of pilots in 2021 show in instituting national laws and policies to
promise in highlighting the positive effects support anticipatory action.
of timely humanitarian response.

OCHA-facilitated anticipatory action portfolio 2021

Niger
Drought
Burkina Faso
Drought

60

Bangladesh
Floods
Philippines
Typhoon

Ethiopia
Drought

Democratic
Republic
of the Congo
Cholera

Framework
Activated
Endorsed
In development

Nepal
Floods

Chad
Drought

Somalia
Drought

Malawi
Dry spells
Madagascar
Plague

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA has continued working on anticipatory approaches through innovative financing. In July, it established an agreement with
the African Risk Capacity to collaborate on
developing anticipatory insurance policies in
a selection of countries. When out-of-the-ordinary events are predicted, and before they
cause significant damage, earlier insurance
payouts can help Governments to mitigate
rather than compensate a loss, especially
when the money is used to implement preagreed plans.
The pandemic has similarly exposed the
need to rethink crisis risk management and
how the anticipatory action approach could
apply in highly dynamic and uncertain situations. Throughout 2021, OCHA analysed the
pandemic’s health and socioeconomic impacts on countries with HRPs. This analysis
helped advocate for a more equitable vaccine
roll-out. OCHA updated a COVID-19 index
based on the Omicron outbreak to prioritize
action in the most vulnerable countries with
humanitarian appeals.

Predictive analytics
in support of
anticipatory action
Throughout 2021, OCHA’s Centre for Humanitarian Data (CHD) has supported humanitarian partners to develop the mechanisms that
trigger OCHA’s anticipatory action. This is
done through historical analysis, assessment
of available models and forecasts, and design
of trigger mechanisms for anticipatory action.
CHD acts as a technical translator, ensuring
effective communication between modelers
and forecast producers, and humanitarian
decision makers.

“Through our Centre for Humanitarian Data, OCHA is providing technical expertise to
assess forecasts, validate models and then design trigger mechanisms for anticipatory action
frameworks. This is detailed technical work, and this is one of the areas in which we must invest
efforts, and indeed at OCHA we are seeking to do so.”
Martin Griffiths,
United Nations Under-Secretary-General
for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator

61

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Promoting women’s leadership
in humanitarian action

The NGO COOPI
conducts an
awareness-raising
session about

Humanitarian crises disproportionately affect women and girls, as they have distinct
needs, experiences, resources, capacities and
coping strategies. Sudden-onset emergencies, protracted crises and displacement can
exacerbate existing gender norms, gender
discrimination and gender inequalities,
such as women’s and girls’ limited access
to decision-making processes, education,
work, and increasing gaps in sexual and
reproductive health services.

sexual and genderbased violence at
an IDP site in Zémio,
CAR.
Credit: OCHA/Anita
Cadonau

62

Crisis settings also showcase women’s
strengths and leadership skills: women are
often first responders in a crisis and play a
central role in the survival and resilience of
families and communities.

Addressing gaps in the representation of
women-led organizations in humanitarian
decision-making was a notable finding in
the first system-wide Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluation on Gender Equality and
the Empowerment of Women and Girls in
2020. The OCHA Gender Policy Instruction
was updated in 2021 and included the ERC's
request to include women CSOs in HCTs
to ensure their engagement in humanitarian decision-making processes. OCHA
and partners increased the engagement of
local women-led organizations and their
meaningful participation in designing and
planning the HPC and in HCTs, particularly
in Ethiopia, Iraq, Myanmar, Palestine, Syria and Yemen.

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

In 2021, some $35 million was made available
specifically to local women-led organizations (WLOs)/women's rights organizations
(WROs), and some 172 WLO/WRO partners
were trained.
The CBPFs’ Global Guidelines will be updated to better encourage and improve access to
the funds for local WLOs and WROs and to
promote their participation in governance
arrangements, including advisory boards
and project review committees.
In Afghanistan, the HCT embraced a strategy
that emphasizes the centrality of women’s
and girls’ rights and the participation of
women and women’s CSOs. In 2021, the HCT
established an Afghan Women’s Advisory
Group to provide guidance and advice to the
HCT in facilitating more context-specific and
locally anchored engagement with the Taliban to ensure that women’s and girls’ rights
remain comprehensively integrated in humanitarian assistance. The Advisory Group
supports the HCT to ensure that women are
part of the strategic planning processes.

2021, 15 countries in conflict, post-conflict
and humanitarian settings reported and verified trends and patterns of conflict-related
sexual violence targeting women and girls.
While the funding shortfall for GBV and
gender programming remained a serious
challenge, CERF allocated $372 million, or
70 per cent of total CERF funding, to projects
that intended to contribute to gender equality — a significant increase from 63 per cent
in 2020. All of these projects had high Gender
with Age Marker (GAM) scores of between 3
and 4. GAM is a tool to design and monitor
humanitarian interventions.
Across 20 country operations, CBPFs provided $707 million for projects with strong
gender components, as scored by GAM.
According to the Financial Tracking Service
(FTS), although $207 million of GBV funding
was received in 2021, there remained a 72 per
cent funding shortfall for the sector.

The Call to Action on Protection from Gender-Based Violence in Emergencies, now
In 2021, Gender in Humanitarian Action chaired by Denmark, continued to chamgroups contributing to the HCT were active pion the importance of fully funding GBV in
emergencies to meet survivors’ differing and
in 13 crisis settings.
distinct needs. In 2021, the ERC convened
The IASC's Gender Standby Capacity Pro- a high-level GBV round table to address
ject, a mechanism to deploy expert advisers funding gaps, which led to a dedicated GBV
to humanitarian operations, completed 22 page on FTS to track actual investments in
deployments (20 at the country level, 2 at GBV prevention and response, and to hold
the global level) in 2021.
the humanitarian sector accountable for its
commitments to address GBV funding gaps.
In addition, CERF established a Gender Contact Group of experts to address the funding
Globally, one in three women experiences vi- shortfall for gender and GBV projects.
olence during her lifetime. However, in some
humanitarian emergencies more than 70 per
cent of women have experienced GBV, and
an estimated one in five displaced women
will experience sexual violence.
Prioritizing and funding GBV prevention, mitigation and response in emergencies

Armed conflict, natural hazards and humanitarian emergencies can significantly
weaken a society’s ability to protect women
and girls from GBV. Rates of intimate partner
violence often increase in crisis settings. In
63

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

OCHA’s role in the Inter-Agency
Standing Committee
OCHA carries out its coordination function IASC subsidiary bodies supported the huthrough the IASC — the primary global hu- manitarian system’s responses on the ground
by providing critical guidance, frameworks
manitarian coordination platform.
and tools. Learning and improvement opOCHA chairs the IASC, and with support portunities were provided via key initiatives
from the Geneva-based IASC secretariat, the including the Inter-Agency Humanitarian
ERC convenes IASC members and ensures Evaluations on Gender Equality and the
they work together towards a more efficient Empowerment of Women and Girls, and
humanitarian response system.
IASC reviews on PSEA and the centrality
of protection.
In 2021, the IASC continued strengthening
field support and coordinated response to The ERC and the IASC Principals guided the
crises. This included the declaration of its humanitarian system to address gaps in the
System-Wide Emergency Activation Proce- pandemic response, particularly its impact
dures ­— referred to as a Scale-Up — to re- on high-risk and vulnerable populations in
spond to crises in Afghanistan, Ethiopia and humanitarian settings.
Mozambique. IASC members also ensured
more joined-up and increased advocacy by
issuing joint statements on key crises, in- Inclusion of persons with disabilities
cluding Ethiopia and Yemen, and on themat- In 2021, OCHA provided critical guidance
ic issues such as actions against racism and and training to increase the inclusion of perracial discrimination in the humanitarian sons with disabilities as criteria in funding
sector, and GBV.
decisions. This enabled the use of reliable
Rakan, a 10-year-old
from rural Aleppo,
was injured by an air
strike. He moved to
Türkiye for treatment
and now lives in
the Al-Ghadfa camp
near Maarrat Misrin,
Syria.
Credit: OCHA/Bilal Al
Hammoud

64

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

data and analysis of the risks faced by these
vulnerable individuals.

and to ensure that their priorities and views
inform, shape and adapt humanitarian preparedness and response. The Accountability
CERF made its first-ever allocation to ad- and Inclusion Portal, the Results Tracker and
dress the specific barriers and needs of peo- the Collective AAP Framework are among
ple with disabilities. It allocated $10 million the tools and guidance developed in 2021.
to seven countries: Afghanistan, DRC, Mo- This resulted in affected people participatzambique, Nigeria, South Sudan, Syria and ing in the advisory boards of funding and
Venezuela. Additionally, the HPC framework coordination mechanisms.
made progress in taking into account the
priorities identified by affected people and
their vulnerabilities and diversities, such as Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse
those linked to gender, age and disability.
The IASC remained vigilant in increasing
protection from sexual exploitation and
Inclusion-related issues also featured prom- abuse and sexual harassment (PSEAH)
inently at the Humanitarian Networks and in humanitarian response. The 2021 IASC
Partnerships Weeks, as noted by the Over- Champion for PSEAH, a role led by the Unitseas Development Institute in its post-event ed Nations Population Fund, led initiatives
report. OCHA continued supporting the to bolster dedicated country-level capacity,
Reference Group on Inclusion of Persons improve access to quality information and
with Disabilities in Humanitarian Action assistance to victims and survivors, and
to implement the IASC Guidelines.
strengthen coordination and coherence.
A cornerstone of this work was commissioning an external review of the IASC’s PSEAH
In 2021, the IASC continued addressing the initiatives that examined progress over the
barriers to system-wide AAP. It led a work- last decade and the remaining challenges.
shop on AAP with several HCs, documented Presented in November 2021, the review
good practices and lessons learned in five noted progress but highlighted areas that
responses (CAR, DRC, Indonesia, the Syria did not meet stated objectives. Leadership
cross-border response and Uganda), and and accountability at the country level have
supported HCTs to develop AAP action plans. improved, but there is a need for more sustained and dedicated capacity in the field,
To strengthen operational accountability more timely and transparent investigations,
towards affected people, the IASC provided and a multi-year plan of action to coalesce
tools and guidance and field tested them in around agreed objectives and measure reseveral country operations, most notably in sults. This will set the stage for ambitious
the Syria cross-border response. The work- coordinated action in the coming years.
shops and field tests of the AAP Framework
helped to develop an Action Plan for Change In March, OCHA revised its Standard Opin the Syria cross-border response, which erating Procedures on Sexual Misconduct,
included key steps for a more inclusive and published in English, Arabic, Spanish and
accountable humanitarian response. For French. They include corporate responsibiliexample, simultaneous translation during ties for the reporting, receipt and handling of
Humanitarian Liaison Group meetings led SEA complaints, including for implementing
to more inclusion and participation.
partners, and they outline OCHA’s role in
supporting HCs and HCTs. PSEA focal points
The IASC adapted its tools and strengthened are now established in all OCHA offices, and
mechanisms to enable affected people to staff members complete mandatory trainparticipate in humanitarian coordination, ings and sign an acknowledgement of the

Accountability to Affected People

65

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

expected standard of conduct upon recruit- health and psychosocial support operations
at the onset of a humanitarian situation. In
ment or reassignment.
2021, the number of country-level techniIn 2021, OCHA’s pooled funds received spe- cal mental health and psychosocial coorcific guidance and tools to implement the dination groups increased to 48 (from 23
UN Protocol on Allegations of SEA involving in March 2020), including in Afghanistan,
Implementing Partners. Procedures are also Ukraine and Yemen.
in place for reporting and responding to sexual harassment in the workplace, in line with The IASC MHPSS RG supported 27 groups
UN system-wide policies.
through field missions, teleconferences, capacity-building activities and resource adaptation, and 15 surge deployments supported
Mental Health and Psychosocial Support
some of the groups, thanks to support from
The IASC Mental Health and Psychosocial the Netherlands.
Support Reference Group (MHPSS RG),
comprising 60 humanitarian organiza- Inter-agency collaboration in five countries
tions, developed a wide range of resources allowed for progress on the joint developfor response to the pandemic and human- ment and field testing of a minimum services
itarian crises. They include products such package for mental health and psychosocial
as My Hero Is You, Storybook for Children on support in humanitarian settings. This is
COVID-19 and updated guidelines for the expected to be ready for IASC endorsement
pandemic response. Published in multiple at the end of 2022.
languages and accessible formats, the products were disseminated widely in humanitarian emergencies in 2021.
In October, the Global Mental Health Summit, held in Paris, again underlined the importance of scaling up cross-sectoral mental
Children in Ahl
al-Tah camp for
displaced people,
north of Idlib City in
Syria, take part in a
solidarity event on
World Mental Health
Day, 10 October
2021.
Credit: OCHA/Ali Haj
Suleiman

66

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Cameroon, DRC, Ethiopia, Haiti, Libya, Mozambique, Myanmar, Somalia, South Sudan,
OCHA manages the inter-agency ProCap and Sudan, Venezuela, Yemen and Zimbabwe.
GenCap projects in a long-standing partner- All country-level deployments were in the
ship with the Norwegian Refugee Council. context of the HRPs, signalling the project’s
The projects aim to strengthen leadership, relevance to system-wide priorities. ProCap
programmes and localization strategies on also supported the Global Protection Cluster
protection and gender equality by providing and the IASC Results Group 1 subgroup on
direct support to field operations.
the centrality of protection.
Supplying capacity to protect civilians and
support gender-related activities

This is chiefly done by deploying senior
advisers who work closely with HCs, HCTs,
and other coordination mechanisms and
stakeholders, including local partners. The
projects also support global policy and advocacy around protection, gender equality
and women’s empowerment in close collaboration with partners.

The deployments improved efforts to support IDPs, for example in Somalia. ProCap
experts’ collaborative approaches with local
organizations led to improved and inclusive
responses. In addition, ProCap facilitated
the establishment of an Inter-Cluster Inclusion Working Group and the mapping
of the engagement level between local organizations and the humanitarian response.

In South Sudan, ProCap supported the HCT
to strengthen capacities and foster links
In 2021, ProCap deployed senior protection between humanitarian, development and
experts to 17 countries and two global con- peace entities. ProCap also helped improve
texts. Their expertise supported humani- collective efforts to protect affected peotarian responses in Afghanistan, Burundi, ple within the Inter-Cluster Coordination
Inter-agency Protection Standby
Capacity Project

INTER-AGENCY PROCAP DEPLOYMENTS
January–August 2021

GLOBAL
AFGHANISTAN

LIBYA
HAITI

YEMEN

SUDAN

ETHIOPIA
SOMALIA

CAMEROON

SOUTH SUDAN
DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
OF THE CONGO

MOZAMBIQUE
ZIMBABWE

67

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Group and conflict-sensitive protection
risk analysis.

This included providing senior gender expertise to Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
CAR, Chad, DRC, northern Ethiopia, Haiti,
ProCap management proactively reaches out Honduras, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeto country operations for early engagement ria, the Philippines, Somalia, South Sudan,
in sudden-onset or rapidly developing cri- Türkiye/Whole of Syria, Venezuela, Yemen
ses, particularly those under the IASC Sys- and Zimbabwe.
tem-Wide Scale-Up activation protocols. Deployments to Scale-Up activation contexts Most country-level deployments supported
were fast-tracked in 2021, a practice that will the preparation of inter-agency coordinated
strengthen in 2022. ProCap also maintains appeals, notably HRPs. At the global level,
its usual support to protracted crises.
GenCap helped strengthen gender mainstreaming in the HPC and the roll-out of
the IASC GAM.
Inter-agency Gender Standby Capacity Project

The situation of women and girls continues
to be a major concern across all response
contexts, with the pandemic exacerbating
existing challenges, including GBV.

GenCap’s work has led to strengthened
gender-equality programming, meaningful involvement of women’s groups, gendered assessments and gender analysis
informing response programming, and
In 2021, GenCap deployed senior gender ex- alignment across the humanitarian-develperts to support 20 country responses and opment-peace nexus. For example, GenCap
in Mali brought together the humanitarian
two global contexts.
coordination leadership, the HCT, clusters,
CSOs, local and international NGOs, UN

INTER-AGENCY GENCAP DEPLOYMENTS
January–August 2021

GLOBAL
TÜRKİYE
NIGER
HAITI
HONDURAS

MALI

YEMEN
ETHIOPIA
SOMALIA

BURKINA FASO
NIGERIA
CAMEROON
CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC
DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
OF THE CONGO

68

CHAD

SOUTH SUDAN
MOZAMBIQUE
ZIMBABWE

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

agencies, donors and national authorities
to collectively develop a road map on gender-equality programming in emergencies.
GenCap facilitated the participation of local
partners, with several NGOs leading the road
map’s different areas of activity.

pines was prioritized following the impact
of natural hazards.
Sustaining localization

In 2021, local entities and organizations were
critical to and at the forefront of the panIn support of the northern Ethiopia response, demic response, particularly in sustaining
GenCap helped to collect gender data in humanitarian operations.
conflict-affected areas and inject gender
analysis into the HNO, HRP and other key The gradual progress in localization, fosstrategic documents.
tering a greater role for national and local
aid actors, was backed by political support.
In Honduras, GenCap provided expertise This included through the Grand Bargain
to integrate gender perspectives into the process and as international entities adopted
National Plan for Reconstruction and Sus- measures to improve funding flexibility in
tainable Development, and to enhance local the context of COVID-19.
planning for and response to emergencies
from a gender perspective by training hun- OCHA, together with partners including the
International Council for Voluntary Agencies,
dreds of municipal officials.
drafted the IASC Guidance on Strengthening
GenCap continues to emphasize early en- Participation, Representation and Leadergagement in sudden-onset or rapidly evolv- ship of Local and National Actors in IASC
ing crises, particularly those under the IASC Humanitarian Coordination Mechanisms.
System-Wide Scale-Up activation protocols. Endorsed by the IASC in July 2021 and transIn 2021, such GenCap deployments were lated into four languages, the guidance
fast-tracked to support the Afghanistan resulted in a set of IASC-agreed indicators
and northern Ethiopia responses. Equally, that would allow system-wide, coordinated
in-country support to Haiti and the Philip- tracking of global progress on localization
A sewing class
at the Burco
Vocational
Training Centre in
Somaliland. Local
NGO Candlelight
provides vocational
training to young
boys and girls in
carpentry, tailoring,
hospitality, and
basic electrical and
mechanical work.
Credit: OCHA/Ahmed
Fais

69

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

for the first time. OCHA committed to track
these indicators annually.
Through the IASC, OCHA led the development of “Mapping of Good Practices in the
Humanitarian-Development-Peace Nexus
approaches, Country Briefs and Synthesis
Report 2021.” The report tracks progress and
makes recommendations on localization
in the nexus.
According to analysis for 2020 (processed in
2021), local and national entities constituted
49 per cent of the total membership of cluster
groups worldwide (16,351 members in total)
and 32 per cent of total cluster leadership (as
co-lead or co-chair). Seventy-four per cent
of clusters/sectors at the national level and
88 per cent at the subnational level reported
using an official or a local language of the
country of operation in their meetings.
The IASC established an online repository to
strengthen resource and information sharing
on localization and coordination across the
humanitarian system.
OCHA-managed CBPFs were vital for localization in 2021. During the year, 793 partners
received funding, of which 325 (41 per cent)
were national or local organizations. The
Funds collectively channelled $268 million
directly to national and local actors. This corresponds to 27 per cent of the total amount
allocated, above the 25 per cent global
benchmark set at the World Humanitarian
Summit. Individually, seven Funds allocated
over a third of all funding to local and national partners. In addition to direct funding,
$84 million was made available to national
NGOs through subgrants. This brings the
total amount of all funding — direct and
indirect — allocated during the year to local
and national NGOs to $352 million (35 per
cent of total funding).
To better measure financing flows, OCHA
continued to ensure that local and national
entities are classified on FTS. By the year’s
end, 10,000 of 12,000 reporting organiza-

70

tions were classified. Local and national
entities received 5 per cent of total humanitarian funding.
Local private sector entities became increasingly engaged in crisis response and were
recognized as key actors. When flash floods
hit Sri Lanka in June 2021, local private sector
network A-PAD SL, part of CBi, quickly organized emergency assistance in partnership
with the local hospitality sector, providing
hot meals to thousands of affected people.

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Responding to environmental
emergencies
The UN Environment Programme and OCHA
Joint Unit, known as JEU, supports countries affected by natural and human-made
environmental emergencies and works to
ensure that humanitarian action minimizes
environmental harm. Between its creation
in 1994 and the end of 2021, JEU has carried
out 227 missions in 105 countries.

The unit also coordinates with partners to
adapt to climate change in humanitarian
settings, increase collaboration between environmental and humanitarian actors, and
mitigate environmental risks in humanitarian projects and programmes.

Plumes of ash
billow from the La
Soufrière volcano,
on the island of
St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, which
erupted in April
2021.
Credit: OCHA/Navin

The unit works closely with UN agencies,
programmes and affiliated organizations,
regional organizations, Member States, the
private sector, civil society and academia.

Pato Patterson

It can deploy technical expertise within
48 hours to affected countries and provide
remote support.

71

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Ammunition explosions in Equatorial Guinea

On 7 March, ammunition explosions in the
city of Bata, Equatorial Guinea, caused extensive damage to residential buildings and
a newly built hospital.

A JEU staff member led an UNDAC team to
conduct environmental assessments and
support the Government’s response. Multi-sector Initial Rapid Assessment (MIRA)
results were shared with the UNCT and
the Government.

A JEU team deployed to Barbados and Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines to monitor the
volcano and lahar flows (flows of mud or
debris), and to assist with the toxicologic
analysis of ash, and ash clean-up and disposal.
Flooding in Guyana

In May and June, flooding caused by heavy
rainfall affected over 150,000 people in
Guyana. JEU supported the UNDAC team’s
assessment, focusing on the environmental
impact on the country’s mining sector.

Based on the MIRA findings, the ERC released
$1 million from CERF for humanitarian as- The UNDAC team recommended a flood consistance. UNDAC coordinated an Emergency tingency-planning process, which is being
Response and Recovery Plan, appealing for followed up by ROLAC.
$10 million.

OCHA staff at
the site of the
ammunition
explosion in
Equatorial Guinea.
Credit: OCHA/JEU

Volcano eruption in the Caribbean

On 9 April, the La Soufrière volcano in Saint
Vincent erupted with accompanying ash. It
affected people in Barbados, Saint Lucia and
Grenada, forcing them from their homes.

72

Vessel fire in Sri Lanka

In early June, the Singapore-flagged X-Press
Pearl vessel, which caught fire in Sri Lankan
national waters in May, sank. At the time of
the fire, the vessel was carrying 1,486 containers, 81 of which were dangerous-goods

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

containers, in addition to 322 tons of fuel oil. izations and several clusters on how to use
This raised concerns about actual and poten- the tool, and how to incorporate NEAT+ astial oil, chemical and plastic contamination. sessments into regional or global programme
requirements. Several humanitarian partFollowing a request from the Government ners began using the tool and turned to JEU
of Sri Lanka, JEU deployed a team com- for technical support in their roll-out. For
prising three experts on oil, chemical and example, the Norwegian Red Cross secured
plastic pollution, and a UNEP team leader. almost €1 million to lead NEAT+ training
They advised the Government on incident programmes in over 10 of its country offices
management and assessed the emergency’s worldwide. Oxfam indicated it will require
environmental and humanitarian impact.
NEAT+ assessments globally, and IFRC will
pilot the tool in the Americas.
Sustainable humanitarian action
 JEU will combine Rural NEAT+ and Urban
OCHA and JEU are coordinating efforts to NEAT+ into the www.neatplus.org platreduce humanitarian organizations’ carbon form in 2022.
footprint and promote risk-informed action.

The Nexus Environmental Assessment Tool
(NEAT+) rapidly identifies the environmental risks of humanitarian projects. An example of such risks is the impact of an IDP
camp on nearby water resources. NEAT+ also
provides organizations with ways to reduce
their environmental impact.

Knowledge platforms

JEU runs two online platforms — EEcentre.
org and EHAConnect.org — that provide tools to prepare for environmental
emergencies.

During 2021, JEU developed a version of
NEAT+ that could identify environmental
risks of humanitarian projects in urban areas.
JEU provided online training to over 900
members of dozens of humanitarian organWith UN
agencies' support,
communities in
Bagarine, eastern
Chad, plant crops,
trees and shrubs
to create more
diverse, productive,
profitable, healthy
and sustainable
land-use systems in
a changing climate.
Credit: OCHA/
Federica Gabellini

73

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Humanitarian financing
IOM distributes
assistance,
including money for
rent, to relocated
displaced people at
Kigaramango camp,
thanks to CERF.
Credit: OCHA/
Camille Marquis

OCHA works with humanitarian partners
globally to identify the most critical humanitarian needs, and it leads collective
efforts to mobilize funding to respond.
In 2021, OCHA mobilized $20.3 billion for
coordinated humanitarian appeals — an
increase from the $18.9 billion raised in
2020 — supporting partners worldwide
to assist people in need.
Through its pooled funds, OCHA enables responsive, predictable and strategic funding.
With generous support from donors, CERF
and the CBPFs disbursed over $1.5 billion1 in
2021. This included $548 million from CERF
and over $1 billion through the CBPFs.
1.	 Pfdata.unocha.org as of 2/22/2022

74

OCHA drives better humanitarian financing by encouraging innovative and more
effective ways of funding. Its funds adapt
to reach the most vulnerable people, use
innovative approaches, evaluate, learn and
share knowledge.
Mobilizing more funding for crisis response

The pandemic and its economic effects made
people more vulnerable to conflict and natural disasters in 2021. OCHA led system-wide
resource mobilization efforts for coordinated
HRPs in crisis-affected countries, regionally
and globally.

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

The Global Humanitarian Overview (GHO)
is the world's most comprehensive, authoritative and evidence-based humanitarian
needs assessment. It reflects global trends
and requirements for inter-agency appeals
and explores opportunities to deliver humanitarian assistance together, better.

OCHA mobilized funding through several
advocacy and pledging events. These virtual
and hybrid high-level humanitarian events
brought together a diverse group and an
increased number of Member States, international financial institutions, regional
organizations, the private sector and the
public. They included:

In 2021, 235 million people needed humanitarian assistance and protection. The UN and •	 The High-Level Pledging Event for
Yemen (March), co-hosted with the Govits NGO partners appealed for $35.1 billion
ernments of Sweden and Switzerland, at
to help 160 million people in need across
which
donors pledged $1.7 billion. In the
56 countries. By 31 December, adjusted relead-up to the event, then USG/ERC Mark
quirements were $37.7 billion to assist 174
Lowcock warned the Security Council that
million people. The GHO received $20.12
it needed to act immediately to prevent
billion (53 per cent).
famine in Yemen.
OCHA supported the humanitarian system •	 The Supporting the Future of Syria and
to broaden the donor base. It convened
the Region virtual event (March). Pledges
briefings and high-level events that includof $5.3 billion for 2021 and beyond were
ed the participation of Member States from
received for Syria and neighbouring
the global South, international financial
countries hosting the largest number of
institutions, affected Governments, local
Syrian refugees.
organizations and INGO voices. These events
•	 The hybrid High-Level Ministerial
provided Member States and partners with
Meeting on Afghanistan (September),
up-to-date information on immediate needs.
at which Member States pledged almost
They reinforced how the humanitarian sys$1.4 billion for 2021 and beyond.
tem responds, the impact of funds received
and key challenges. These forums collective- •	 The High-Level Event on Anticipatory
Action (September), at which over 135
ly helped inform Member States' decisions
Member States and partners expressed
on policy and resource allocation, and they
support for anticipatory action and their
further demonstrated confidence in the mulintention to act before crises.
tilateral humanitarian system.
•	 The High-Level Event on Famine PreTo further diversify funding sources, CBi
vention for the High-Level Taskforce
engaged the private sector before, during
(October), at which donors committed
and after emergencies to work hand-in-hand
multi-year and flexible support for famwith Governments, civil society and humanine prevention.
itarian organizations to provide urgent assis•	 CERF's hybrid High-Level Pledging
tance and build more resilient societies. CBi
Event (December), at which donors
gathers over 8,000 businesses, associations
pledged over $467 million for 2022.
and federations and is present in 12 countries
and the Pacific region. In 2021, it collected Despite these advocacy efforts and more,
and distributed more than $7.2 million in close to half of the required GHO funding
cash and in-kind assistance.
was not received, resulting in a funding gap

75

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

of $17.6 billion. The consequences of this
were severe. Millions of people could not
escape malnutrition or access life-saving
assistance, such as safe water and sanitation,
health care, or protection services. For example, in Yemen, underfunding forced agencies
to scale down their life-saving programmes.
In December, WFP announced the reduction
of food rations for 8 million people.
GHO 2021: PEOPLE IN NEED AND
FUNDING REQUIREMENTS
$20.25B FUNDED

The HC and the HCT can decide how best to
use these different funding sources based
on each fund's comparative advantage at
the country level.
•	 CERF's unique added value rests in its
agility, scope and scale. As a global enabler of humanitarian action, CERF funding
can be made available anywhere in the
world, often within hours. This allows
responders to kick-start relief efforts immediately when a crisis emerges, and to
scale up and address critical needs when
no other funding is available.

$37.71B REQUESTED

•	 The CBPFs allow donors to pool their
contributions into country-specific
54%
funds to support local humanitarian
efforts.
They operate in a limited number
174.0M PEOPLE REACHED 250.2 PEOPLE IN NEED
of countries and provide predictability
for HCs and partners by availing funding
annually in the respective country. Their
added value includes a longer-term local
OCHA-MANAGED POOLED FUNDS
structure embedded in humanitarian response operations to inject HRP funding in
Throughout the year, OCHA provided critthe most strategic areas, and their broad
ical financial support to humanitarian oppartnership networks and ability to superations globally through CERF and at the
port front-line responders.
country level through the CBPFs.
In 2021, the complementary use of both fundIn 2021, the pooled funds channelled over ing mechanisms strengthened humanitarian
$1.5 billion to ensure life-saving assistance response in several countries. This included
for millions of people caught in crisis. This the response to the crisis in Afghanistan, the
included $548 million from CERF (made armed conflict in Yemen, the violent conflict
possible through the second-highest level in Ethiopia’s Tigray region, and the crises
of contributions ever) and over $1 billion in Lebanon and South Sudan. For instance,
through the CBPFs (made possible through when Lebanon faced critical fuel shortages,
CERF funding to WFP focused on keeping
the highest-ever level of contributions).
water stations up and running, while the
Together, the funds responded to the world's Lebanon Humanitarian Fund supported fuel
most challenging crises, with CERF sup- for hospitals and health clinics.
porting humanitarian responses across 40
countries and the CBPFs providing support In Ethiopia, the HC was able to harness
CERF to ensure support for conflict-affected
in 20 different settings.
communities in underfunded sectors such
When the CBPFs and CERF provide resources as health care, food assistance and shelter
for the same emergencies, the HCs ensure in the north. As conflict reached Afar and
that resources complement one another. In Amhara, the Ethiopia Humanitarian Fund
2021, $415 million, or 75 per cent of CERF made it possible for local front-line NGOs
funding, went to 15 countries with CBPFs.2 to respond to urgent new needs.
2.	 Afghanistan, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Lebanon, Myanmar, Niger, Nigeria, occupied
Palestinian territory, Sudan, Somalia, South Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela and Yemen.

76

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Beyond saving the lives of millions of people Communicating the value
caught in humanitarian disasters and emergencies, allocations from the pooled funds of CERF and the CBPFs
helped to improve how the humanitarian
community delivers assistance.
OCHA set up a dedicated team to offer more
The funds increase attention to particular
crises, and they highlight protection and the
specific needs of women, girls and people
with disabilities. For example, CERF allocated a specific envelope to promote inclusion
of vulnerable people with disabilities, such
as removing barriers to accessing humanitarian services and promoting meaningful
participation, in countries from Afghanistan
to Venezuela in 2021.
The CBPFs promote localization and collectively channelled $268 million directly to
national and local actors. This corresponds
to 27 per cent of total allocations, which is
above the 25 per cent global benchmark set
at the 2016 World Humanitarian Summit.

visibility to donors, especially those providing
unearmarked funding to OCHA and its pooled
funds. For example, OCHA launched two communication products: the Story Hub, a repository of human-interest stories to highlight the
impact of the funds, and the email newsletter
“CBPFs in Action,” which provides the latest
news and funding analysis. A dedicated team
works with donors to facilitate communications with their own parliamentarians, partners and publics to promote the way in which
money channelled through the pooled funds
enables immediate impact for people in crisis.
In addition to the CBPFs' website, the Pooled
Funds Data Hub offers real-time information on contributions, allocations and
people assisted.

A baby being treated
for malnutrition at
the Spin Boldak
Hospital, Kandahar,
funded by UNICEF
through a CERF
allocation.
Credit: OCHA/Sayed
Habib Bidel

77

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

CENTRAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE FUND

Rapid Response

CERF's Rapid Response window enabled
Established by the United Nations General urgent responses to new and rapidly deteAssembly in 2005 as a fund "by all, for all," riorating crises. Rapid Response funding
CERF funds UN agencies to deliver life-sav- amounted to $413 million, or 75 per cent of
ing aid whenever and wherever crises strike. CERF’s total allocations in 2021.
As an essential enabler of global humanitarian action, CERF's Rapid Response window
allows country teams to kick-start relief efforts when a crisis emerges, and its Underfunded Emergencies window helps ensure
that critically underfunded operations can
continue. CERF also has a loan facility to
cover humanitarian operations, based on indications that donor funding is forthcoming.

One example is CERF's response to the rapidly deteriorating situation in Afghanistan.
During the year, CERF allocated over $90
million to response efforts in that country,
including $20 million in August from its
Rapid Response window to enable the Afghanistan Country Team to "stay and deliver"
and maintain and scale up the humanitarian
response. In September, CERF released $45
million from its Rapid Response window to
With humanitarian needs increasing in 2021, prevent a collapse of the country's healthCERF allocated $548 million across 40 coun- care system and ensure the continuation of
tries — the second-largest amount in the life-saving health services.
Fund's 15-year history. This was enabled by
the generous support of 56 Member States Within hours of the earthquake in Haiti in
and observers, three regional authorities August, CERF's timely response through
and many private donors that contributed this window allowed UN agencies and
$638.5 million to CERF — the second-high- partners to deliver life-saving assistance to
the 280,000 most affected people. Similarly,
est amount in its history.
Rapid Response funding enabled humanDuring the year, CERF enabled partners to itarian entities to respond to the needs of
provide life-saving assistance to 51.5 million some 60,000 Rohingya refugees and host
people. This included the second-highest communities on the same day that a fire tore
number of people — 19.4 million — affected through the world's largest refugee camp in
by displacement since CERF's inception. A Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh. And to contain the
large number of people assisted with CERF Ebola outbreak, CERF allocated $6 million
funding (28.1 million people, or 55 per cent) to Guinea within 48 hours of the outbreak.
were women and girls.
CERF funding to respond to conflict, which
is the major cause of humanitarian needs
globally, increased by over 15 per cent. Conflict-related crises affected 85 per cent of
people assisted with CERF funding in 2021.
CERF funding to respond to weather-related and other natural hazards accounted
for $117.5 million, or 19 per cent of funding.
CERF advanced the anticipatory action
agenda, enabling partners to get ahead of
predictable shocks.

78

Underfunded Emergencies

Through its Underfunded Emergencies
(UFE) window, CERF disbursed $135 million to 12 particularly underfunded crises
to sustain and scale up interventions and
reach almost 9 million people.
In Syria, for example, a $22 million UFE allocation was critical in sustaining and scaling
up the response in the most underserved
sectors, strengthening robust protection

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

mechanisms and delivering essential health- to save lives, alleviate suffering and maintain
care and nutrition services.
human dignity.
A $12.4 million UFE allocation for South Sudan helped promote access to education and CBPFs in 2021
provide protection services, including the Donors demonstrated their confidence in
prevention of and response to GBV.
the CBPFs by giving the highest-ever level of
contributions: $1.13 billion. This allowed the
In 2021, CERF's UFE funding included a 20 funds to be at the front line of response,
dedicated $10 million envelope to support allocating over $1 billion.
transformative interventions to address the
specific barriers and needs of people with During the year, the funds helped address
disabilities. This was allocated to seven the needs of about 42.9 million people affectcountries (Afghanistan, DRC, Mozambique, ed by crises. CBPFs helped to respond to seNigeria, South Sudan, Syria and Venezuela) vere humanitarian needs, most significantly
to promote the 'must do' actions highlighted those arising from conflict ($706 million
in the IASC's Guidelines on the Inclusion allocated or 70 per cent), weather-related
of Persons with Disabilities in Humani- and natural hazards ($161 million or 16 per
tarian Action.
cent) and disease outbreaks ($111 million or
11 per cent).
The funds enable a response to needs identified in the HRPs. The CBPFs support the The CBPFs responded to the year’s most
best-placed partners and promote coordi- challenging crises, including in Afghanistan,
nation among humanitarian actors, includ- where the Afghanistan Humanitarian Fund
ing international and national/local NGOs, was at the forefront of the response, providUN agencies and Red Cross/Red Crescent ing $166 million to assist 9.7 million people.
organizations.
The Ethiopia Humanitarian Fund provided
timely support for the response to escalating conflict in the Tigray region, drought in
CERF ALLOCATIONS BY
the south and other drivers of need, with
EMERGENCY TYPE
$87 million to assist 3.2 million people. The
Myanmar Humanitarian Fund responded to
3.1
2.8
that country’s crisis with $20.7 million to enable life-saving support for 970,000 people.
2.6

1.8
1.6
1.3
1.3

COUNTRY-BASED POOLED FUNDS

Two new funds made their first allocations
in 2021: the Venezuela Humanitarian Fund
and the Regional Humanitarian Fund for
West and Central Africa. In Venezuela, an
$11 million allocation supported a multisectoral response for the most vulnerable
people, including women and adolescents
of reproductive age, older people in care
facilities, people with disabilities and Indigenous people.

CBPFs are multi-donor funds established
by the ERC in specific countries or regions.
Their role is to allocate funding based on The Regional Humanitarian Fund for West
identified humanitarian needs and priorities and Central Africa made its first allocation

79

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

in September: NGOs received $12.5 million
to ensure life-saving support for displaced
people and host communities in border regions between Niger, Burkina Faso and Mali.
This first-ever regional fund was created to
respond to rising needs: in 2021, a record
29 million people in six countries (Burkina
Faso, northern Cameroon, Chad, Mali, Niger
and north-east Nigeria) needed humanitarian assistance.
The funds also provided $30 million to enable partners to respond to the humanitarian
consequences of severe economic disruption
in already fragile contexts now amplified by
the pandemic.
ADAPTING HUMANITARIAN FINANCING TO
A CHANGING ENVIRONMENT

OCHA's funds adapt to reach the world's
most vulnerable people, and they share
knowledge to contribute to positive change
throughout the humanitarian system.

Reach the most vulnerable

CERF and the CBPFs prioritized life-saving
assistance for the most vulnerable people
affected by humanitarian crises.
The CBPFs reached some 29 million women
and girls and over 5 million people with disabilities — a 32 per cent increase since 2020.
CERF assisted over 28 million women and
girls and 3 million people with disabilities.
Both funds sought to mitigate the significant
rise in GBV following the pandemic. CERF
granted some $36 million globally to address
GBV, particularly supporting women's organizations. The CBPFs collectively allocated
$50 million for GBV prevention and protection. CERF provided an earmarked $10 million to enable UN agencies and partners to
implement transformative interventions to
improve access to assistance and to address
the needs of 200,000 people with disabilities
in six countries.

In 2021, OCHA established a Pooled Fund
Gender Contact Group and a Disability IncluThe funds identified ways to improve re- sion Contact Group to provide time-bound,
sults measurement and document and dis- independent expert advice. The groups
seminate lessons learned, including from advised ways to improve the effectiveness
recent innovations.
of the OCHA-managed pooled funds in
terms of GBV, gender and disability. They
discussed participation and representation,
decision-making, technical support, data
quality and allocation strategy. Outputs inCBPFS ALLOCATIONS BY
cluded recommendations on how to ensure
PARTNER TYPE
adequate representation in processes relating to the CBPFs and CERF funding, and op3.1
portunities for incorporating strong gender
2.8
equality and disability inclusion expertise
throughout the programming cycle.
The groups highlighted the need to sensitize decision makers on gender- and disability-related issues and ensure that related
data is incorporated into all projects. They
recommended continued targeted gender/
GBV and disability allocations, such as those
in 2020 and 2021.

80

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

Anticipate and respond to needs

CERF continued to provide early and anticipatory action to get help to people before
a crisis peaks, based on triggers developed
by the Centre for Humanitarian Data's Predictive Analytics team. CERF now supports
a portfolio of multi-stakeholder, multisectoral frameworks, each of which includes a
trigger mechanism and thresholds for action,
pre-arranged finance and pre-agreed activities to reduce humanitarian needs.

Revision of CBPFs guidelines

OCHA reviews Global Guidelines when
required by changing context, and in line
with learning and evolving best practices.
In collaboration with partners, the 2021
review was carried out to reinforce the
funds' strategy, enhance their flexibility
and agility, and ensure they are equipped
to address changing humanitarian needs.
Among other amendments, the new Global
Guidelines will:

Three new anticipatory action (AA) frame- •	 Define localization as a secondary aim
for the funds. While the funds maintain
works were approved in 2021, in addition to
their primary life-saving goal, the Global
the three AA pilots launched in 2019 and 2020
Guidelines capture their leading role in
in Somalia and Ethiopia for drought and in
advancing localization, strengthening
Bangladesh for monsoon flooding. The new
the role of local and national actors, inframeworks include Nepal, which became
cluding women-led and women’s rights
operational in September to mitigate the
organizations, in governance and the
impact of a severe flooding event; the Phildelivery of aid.
ippines, approved in October to enable AA
before destructive typhoons; and Malawi, •	 Define effective programming areas
finalized in October for dry spells.
where each fund adds value, bringing
about system change, and stimulating
For the drought in the Horn of Africa, CERF
new ideas and transformation in the
provided $27 million for AA, $13 million for
funds and the wider humanitarian system.
early action and $12 million for rapid reThis aims to reinforce efforts on protecsponse. Half of this funding was automattion, GBV, gender equality and disability
ically allocated when the AA frameworks in
inclusion, cash and voucher assistance,
Somalia and Ethiopia were triggered.
humanitarian access, AA, complementarity with CERF, and AAP.
Through its Rapid Response window, CERF
•	 Introduce regionally hosted pooled
continued to make forward-looking allofunds as a new vehicle for supporting
cations that sought to respond earlier to
coherent approaches to regional emergenlooming crises based on analyses of risks
cies, cross-border collaborations and synand projections of needs. These allocations
ergies between country-specific actions.
included $40 million in anticipation of displacement in Yemen's Marib and Al Jawf re- •	 Strengthen fund risk-management
processes, including effective screening
gions, and a regional allocation of $5 million
processes
to evaluate partner eligibility
to prevent the spread of Ebola from Guinea
and
performance,
improve feedback
into neighbouring countries.
mechanisms to support partners' systems and control measures, and implement enhanced procedures for handling
misconduct-related incidents, including
fraud and SEA.

81

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

CERF performance and accountability

Each year, CERF commissions independent studies under its Performance and
Accountability Framework. These studies
assess CERF's added value to humanitarian
responses worldwide and seek to provide an
appropriate level of assurance that the funds
are managed properly and lead to meaningful results in line with CERF's mandate.

indicators based on the most frequently
funded activities. It encouraged UN agencies to use these in CERF funding proposals
while leaving room for custom indicators
when required.

The standard indicators include the number of people screened for acute malnutrition, the percentage of households with
acceptable food consumption scores, the
In 2021, under its Performance and Account- number of births attended by skilled health
ability Framework, CERF commissioned personnel, and the number of people who
reviews of three innovative allocations received mental health and psychosocial
launched in 2020: its allocation to NGOs support services.
to support the COVID-19 response, cash
allocations to stave off famine in high-risk
countries, and allocations to support GBV Guidance and learning
prevention and response. The reviews helped Following a review of the Pooled Fund Manidentify best practices, lessons learned and agement Branch structures, OCHA estabareas for improvement, and they provided lished a new section in 2021. The Guidance,
relevant input for the broader humanitarian Learning and Reporting section strengthens
community by highlighting best practices. coherence and complementarity across the
OCHA-managed funds. It leads on cross-cutOCHA made learning a cornerstone of ting issues, such as gender and disability
CERF-supported AA frameworks since the inclusion, AAP and other thematic areas
first pilot was launched in 2019. When an where joint approaches are required.
AA framework is activated, learning actions
are triggered to test proof of concept, and The section facilitates communication on
to identify best practices and opportuni- the work of the funds and drafting annual
ties to improve.
reports and other communications products, and it serves as a liaison with key
stakeholders, such as the CERF Advisory
Improving results reporting
Group. It leads data analysis and oversees
In 2021, CERF worked to strengthen its abil- the development and management of pooled
ity to measure and report on results. OCHA fund data platforms (the Grant Management
commissioned a study to help clarify the System, the funds' websites and the Pooled
concept of impact for its pooled funds. It rec- Fund Data Hub).
ommended modifications to existing definitions while considering that corresponding Read the full reports here.
approaches to measurement and reporting
must be practical and achievable. OCHA will
begin implementing its responses to the
study’s recommendations in 2022, including better defining and communicating how
causal pathways are expected to optimize
the outcomes and impacts of pooled funds.
Working with UN agencies and other partners, CERF developed a list of 100 standard

82

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

MAKING LIVES BETTER

ALLOCATIONS BY COUNTRY AND FUNDING MECHANISM

CERF

CBPFs
Rapid Response

TOTAL
Underfunded
Emergencies

$165.64M

$80.23M

$12.50M

$258.37M

Ethiopia

87.32

54.36

13.00

154.68

Syria cross-border

151.20

Yemen

109.08

39.99

South Sudan

69.15

29.91

12.44

111.50

Democratic Republic of the Congo

66.40

13.71

22.06

102.17

Syria

66.26

22.00

88.26

Somalia

46.27

36.49

Nigeria

31.43

21.00

Republic of the Sudan

55.19

8.14

63.33

occupied Palestinian territory

27.79

7.27

35.06

Myanmar

20.73

12.91

33.64

Central African Republic

23.30

8.00

31.30

Lebanon

25.27

4.00

29.27

Iraq

25.39

1.59

26.98

Venezuela

11.46

1.59

Niger

12.48

8.50

20.98

16.75

16.75

Afghanistan

Bangladesh

151.20

Burkina Faso

9.01

Haiti

12.88

Ukraine

149.08

82.76
12.50

8.00

7.00

16.01
11.33

5.02

Madagascar
Cameroon

21.05

12.88

11.33

Mozambique

64.93

2.77

Chad

5.50

10.52

8.00

8.00

5.00

7.77

7.00

7.00

Guinea

6.00

6.00

Kenya

5.00

5.00

Angola

5.00

5.00

Colombia

4.78

4.78

Nepal

3.20

3.20

Mali

2.29

2.29

Jordan

2.02

2.02

Armenia

2.00

2.00

Azerbaijan

2.00

2.00

Pakistan

1.54

1.54

Burundi

1.50

1.50

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

1.00

1.00

Equatorial Guinea

0.99

0.99

Côte d'Ivoire

0.95

0.95

Liberia

0.94

0.94

Sierra Leone

0.90

0.90

Guinea Bissau 

0.75

0.75

Senegal

0.65

0.65

Fiji

0.50

0.50

Note: Regional and global allocations are disaggregated by country.

83

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

Funding

FUNDING
To implement its mandate, OCHA relies heavily on voluntary
contributions, mostly from Governments. Only a small
percentage of OCHA’s programme budget is funded from the
UN Regular Budget. CERF and the CBPFs are funded entirely by
voluntary contributions.

84

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

Funding

PROGRAMME BUDGET

PROGRAMME AND POOLED FUNDS

In 2021, 94 per cent of OCHA’s programme
activities were funded by voluntary contributions. The remaining 6 per cent came from
the UN Regular Budget, which is paid from
UN Member States’ assessed contributions.

Donor income for the three strands of
OCHA’s activities (programme, CERF and
the CBPFs) reached a record $2.06 billion
in 2021, up from $1.77 billion in 2020 and
slightly above the previous record income of
$2.04 billion in 2019. While income for CERF
OCHA’s extrabudgetary (XB) programme and OCHA’s programme increased compared
budget was $263.8 million at the start of 2021. to 2020, the biggest increase was in the $1.1
Thanks to disciplined spending, the budget billion in funding to the CBPFs, compared
increased by less than 1 per cent during 2021, to $863 million in 2020.
closing the year at $265.6 million. Most of
the budget increase was in the field to meet More information on the pooled funds can be
rising increased coordination requirements found in the Humanitarian Funding chapter
mainly in Africa, including CAR, Chad and of this report, and in the funds’ respective
South Sudan. At the year’s end, the field op- annual reports, available on unocha.org.
erations budget represented 75 per cent of
total XB requirements, up from 74 per cent In 2021, income for OCHA’s XB programme
budget reached $286 million in flexible
at the end of 2020.
contributions that could be carried over to
start funding 2022 activities. This exceedFIELD PROPORTION OF OCHA’S
ed
OCHA’s XB programme requirements by
PROGRAMME BUDGET TREND
$20.4 million. Given the overall financial
context, with the pandemic affecting donors’
economies, this generous level of support
demonstrated continued confidence in
FIELD XB BUDGET
65%
70%
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)
OCHA’s capacity to implement its mandate
and maintain operational performance.

2017

29%

HQ XB BUDGET
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)

24%

6%

REGULAR BUDGET

6%

2018

2019

2020

2021

EXTRABUDGETARY BUDGET:
FIELD VS. HQ BUDGET (US$)
HQ ACTIVITIES
$66.8M
25%

FIELD ACTIVITIES
$198.9M
75%

In addition to funds for the programme
budget, $19.5 million was received for
OCHA-managed activities implemented
in partnership with other entities, such as
the Centre for Humanitarian Data in The
Hague, the Protection and Gender Standby
Capacity Project rosters, CBi, and national
UNDAC mission accounts held with OCHA.
As these are pass-through contributions
and not included in OCHA’s XB programme
budget, income for these activities is counted separately.
To cover its administrative costs, OCHA
charges programme support costs of 7 per
cent on its XB programme activities, 3 per
cent for other pass-through grants, and 2
per cent on CERF and the CBPFs.

85

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

Funding

M= Million

EARMARKING TRENDS – TOTAL (US$)

250
200

2021
$144.5M

UNEARMARKED

TOP DONORS – UNEARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)
United Kingdom
Sweden
Denmark

150

Norway

100

Netherlands

EARMARKED

Qatar

50

Australia
2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

Belgium
Germany
Ireland
France

EARMARKING TRENDS – PERCENTAGES

New Zealand
United States
Finland

55%

UNEARMARKED
51%

Switzerland

EARMARKED
49%

45%
2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

TIMELINESS OF DISBURSEMENT
100%

FINAL DISTRIBUTION OF
UNEARMARKED FUNDING (US$)

HEADQUARTERS
$49.1M
31%

COUNTRY OFFICES
75%

3RD QUARTER

50%

2ND QUARTER

25%

2018

$71.0M
44%

2020

2021

HQ

37%

REGIONAL OFFICES

$11.2M
7%

FLEXIBLE
IMPLEMENTATION
2019

ALLOCATED

FIELD
63%

CARRIED
THROUGH
2022

(CARRIED THROUGH
2022)
$28.5M
18%

Note: The difference of $15.2 M, between unearmarked donor contributions received in 2021
($144.5 M) and unearmarked cash that was utilized ($159.7M) is due to: 1) donor unpaid
contributions by the end of 2021; 2) cash received in 2021 for pending unpaid 2020 pledges; 3)
carry-over from 2020.

86

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

Funding

OCHA measures the quality of its income in
terms of predictability, flexibility, timeliness
and diversity. Positive trends were shown
against all these criteria in 2021.

Diversity

In 2021, OCHA received contributions for its
programme, CERF and the CBPFs from 69
Member States and the European Commission. Fifty-six Member States contributed
to CERF, 35 Member States and the EuroPredictability
pean Commission contributed to the CBPFs,
OCHA benefited from a predictable and sta- and 38 Member States and the European
ble income of $112.9 million to its XB pro- Commission contributed to the programme
gramme budget from multi-year agreements budget. OCHA also received contributions
with 18 donors. Fifty-nine per cent of this from private sector entities, regional authorincome is fully unearmarked.
ities and individuals.
OCHA has consistency in its overall number
of donors, but it continues to rely on a small
group of donors for most of its funding. The
top three donors to OCHA’s programme contributed 43 per cent of all income, and the
top 10 donors contributed 77 per cent of all
income. In line with its 2018-2021 Corporate
Resource Mobilization Strategy, OCHA has
continued to seek to broaden the donor base
for its programme and pooled funds, tarFlexibility
geting high- and middle-income countries
In 2021, donors gave a record $144.5 million through direct outreach, as well as generally
as fully unearmarked contributions, repre- strengthening public communication and
senting 50.5 per cent of total programme demonstrating results and added value.
income. This is higher than the $138.4 million received in 2020 in fully unearmarked
funds. Donors also gave an additional $43.6 OCHA Donor
million as softly earmarked contributions
(for a geographic region or regional crisis), Support Group
almost twice as much as in 2020 for this
type of income.
Created by Member States in 1998 as a
The CBPFs benefited from multi-year agreements with eight donors for a total predictable income of $267 million in 2021. CERF
had multi-year agreements with 16 donors
totaling $439.1 million. OCHA’s strong and
long-standing relationships with members
of the OCHA Donor Support Group (ODSG)
also ensure consistent income year-on-year.

Timeliness

Timely payments are an important element
for effective cash management to cover XB
activities. In 2021, more payments were
received in the first and third quarters (32
per cent each) than in 2020. Sixty per cent
of contributions were received during the
first half of 2021, roughly the same level as
in 2020. Only 9 per cent of contributions
were received in the last quarter versus
19 per cent in 2020. OCHA thus benefited
from a stable cash-and-liquidity situation
throughout the year.

“group of friends,” originally with seven members, the ODSG included 30 members by the
end of 2021, with no new members joining
during the year. The group is a sounding
board on a range of issues related to policy,
programme and finance. The membership
criteria include a commitment to provide continued financial support to OCHA and willingness to provide political support to implement
General Assembly resolution 46/182. In 2021,
ODSG members continued to provide nearly
all of OCHA’s income.

87

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

Funding

Programme expenditure

OCHA’s implementation rate in 2021 was 98
per cent under the XB programme budget,
continuing the trend from previous years
for OCHA to operate at nearly full capacity.

DIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES (US$)
Field-based
humanitarian coordination

71.1% 186.5M

Direct HQ support
for field coordination

42.5M 16.2%

Communication and
information management

OPERATING CASH BALANCE

OCHA ended the year with a sound programme closing balance of $222 million,
including $147 million earned from accumulated interest income over the years that
is kept as an operating cash balance (up from
$144.3 million for the previous year).
OCHA needs an operating cash balance of at
least $114 million at the beginning of each
year in order to advance about $63 million to
field offices and headquarters in anticipation
of cash received from donors during the year.
OCHA also needs to advance $51 million to
UNDP to cover national staff and UNV salaries’ liability for the entire year.

14.7M 5.6%

Humanitarian
financing support

7.1M 2.7%

Executive direction
and management

4.3M 1.6%

Programme
common cost

3.8M 1.4%

One-time costs

2M 0.8%

Dormant accounts
and others

0.8M 0.3%

Policy and
normative development

0.7M 0.3%

DIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIVITIES (US$)
Administrative
activities

58.3% 20.2M

Field-based humanitarian
coordination

11M 31.9%

Communication and
information management

3.4M 9.8%

120
CLOSING BALANCE
BREAKDOWN (US$)
105
90

OPERATIONAL
CASH
$147.1M
66%

75
60
45

UNEARMARKED
FUNDS
$36.4M*
16%

30
EARMARKED
FUNDS
$19.71M
9%

15

**

0

*Including unpaid pledge $8.25M
**Including unpaid pledge $3.04M

88

OTHER

(NON-PROGRAMMABLE)
$18.98M
9%

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Funding

FLEXIBLE INCOME IN 2021
Flexible funding received in 2021

Flexible income consists of unearmarked
and softly earmarked contributions, which
give OCHA full or partial flexibility to use
funds based on operational requirements.
Funds are considered unearmarked when
they are for OCHA’s overall activities, with
no limitation for use in any specific office or
project. Donors typically restrict softly earmarked contributions for use in a geographic
region or regional crisis. Flexible funding allows OCHA to plan more strategically across
its operations and to scale up its presence
during a disaster, or to deploy staff in anticipation of a disaster and without having
to wait for donors to provide the resources.

transaction costs related to dealing with any
overlapping and/or cumulative restrictions
on the use of funds. OCHA’s administrative
efficiency is thus enhanced.
Use of flexible funding

Of the $144.5 million in unearmarked income
received in 2021, $131.3 million was used during the year. The balance consisted of late
income received in December 2021 with flexible implementation dates that was carried
over and used in early 2022. Flexible funding
was used to cover the full range of OCHA’s
coordination tools and services worldwide. It
helped to kick-start responses to new emergencies (including the pandemic response);
scale up operations in deteriorating crises;
fill temporary funding gaps to avoid interOCHA has historically received a substan- ruptions in critical operations in protracted,
tial portion of its income as unearmarked. lower-profile crises; and ensure the delivery
In 2021, it received a record $144.5 million of essential field support from global proin unearmarked funding, above the $138.4 grammes. Flexible funding can serve more
million received in 2020, and $43.6 million than one of these purposes, as it can be
in softly earmarked funding, nearly double moved from one activity to another throughthe amount received in 2020 ($23.7 million). out the year to where it is needed most.
Thirty donors contributed unearmarked
funding (including four non-ODSG donors) When all income, including earmarked inand 14 donors contributed softly earmarked come, was received at the end of 2021, 63
funding. The largest donors of unearmarked per cent of unearmarked funding remained
funding in 2021 were the United Kingdom directly allocated to field operations and
and Sweden, together representing 29 per only 37 per cent to global headquarters procent of the total. Denmark and Norway grammes. All regional and country offices decontributed more than $10 million in un- pended on unearmarked funding allocations
earmarked funding.
to fully cover their operational requirements
in 2021, even high-profile and traditionally
Thanks to its flexible nature, unearmarked well-funded crises, such as Syria and Yemen.
funding can be tapped into several times OCHA’s largest field operations, DRC and
during a budget cycle, thus achieving a “mul- South Sudan, also relied on unearmarked
tiplier effect.” For example, if unearmarked funding to fully cover operational needs.
funding is allocated to kick-start a response In other words, it would be impossible for
to a sudden-onset disaster, any unused por- OCHA to operate seamlessly without untion can be moved to address funding gaps earmarked funding.
in other operations once other funding is
received for the sudden-onset disaster.
OCHA Sudan, with a cost plan of $9.1 million in 2021, is one of OCHA’s largest counUnearmarked and softly earmarked contri- try operations and a good example of the
butions play a unique role in OCHA’s cash- importance of unearmarked funding. With
flow management, and they greatly reduce five donors providing earmarked funding

89

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

Funding

amounting to $6.3 million, OCHA Sudan
had 70 per cent of its requirements covered
from earmarked contributions. However,
less than $1 million in earmarked income
had been paid in the first quarter, which was
insufficient to cover costs. Unearmarked
funding was critical to cover this gap until
earmarked contributions were paid in the
second quarter, and it ensured OCHA could
provide uninterrupted services.
Unearmarked funding is also critical to ensure the continuation of OCHA’s operations
in prolonged — and often neglected — crises,
including many countries in Africa where
conflict, insecurity and the impact of climate
change affect several million people. OCHA
country offices in Africa used $42.5 million in
unearmarked funds — a third of the unearmarked funds used in 2021. Country offices
in the Middle East used another $16.5 million
— 12.5 per cent of total unearmarked income.
OCHA’s five regional offices needed $11.5
million in unearmarked funding (8.7 per
cent of total allocated funding) for their
activities in 2021, including surge support.
Regional offices deployed surge staff to support emergency response in many countries,
including those with an OCHA office, relying
on unearmarked funding.
In 2021, programmes centrally managed at
headquarters received over a third of all unearmarked funding. This enabled essential
programmes including standby response
tools; IM services, including the scale-up of
remote surge support to the field; HPC expertise; civil-military capability; policy; and
advocacy. Their achievements, along with
many other global programmes described
in this report, were possible only thanks to
unearmarked contributions.

Children walk from
school in Idlib, Syria.
Credit: OCHA/Ali Haj
Suleiman

90

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

Funding

91

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

annexes

ANNEXES

92

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

annexes

Acronyms
AAP Accountability to affected people
ASG Assistant Secretary-General
CAR Central African Republic
CBi Connecting Business initiative
CBPFs Country-Based Pooled Funds
CERF Central Emergency Response Fund
CSO Civil-Society Organization
DERC Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator
DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo
ERC Emergency Relief Coordinator
FTS Financial Tracking Service
GAM Gender with Age Marker
GBV Gender-based violence
GENCAP Gender Standby Capacity Project
GHO Global Humanitarian Overview
HAT Humanitarian Advisory Team
HC Humanitarian Coordinator
HCT Humanitarian Country Team
HDX Humanitarian Data Exchange
HPC Humanitarian Programme Cycle
HRP Humanitarian Response Plan
IAHE Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluation
IASC Inter-Agency Standing Committee
IDP Internally displaced person
IFRC International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies
IM Information Management
INGO International non-governmental organization
IOM International Organization for Migration
IPC Integrated Food Security Phase Classification
MHPSS Mental health and psychosocial support
NGO Non-governmental organization
NSAG Non-State armed group
OCHA United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
ODSG OCHA Donor Support Group
PROCAP Protection Standby Capacity Project
PSEA Prevention of sexual exploitation and abuse
RC Resident Coordinator

ROAP Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
ROLAC Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
ROMENA Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
ROSC Regional Office for the Syria Crisis
ROSEA Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa
ROWCA Regional Office for West and Central Africa
SBP Standby Partner
SCB Strategic Communications Branch
SEA Sexual exploitation and abuse
UNCT UN Country Team
UNDAC United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination
UNDP United Nations Development Programme
UNHCR United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF United Nations Children’s Fund
USG Under-Secretary-General
UNV United Nations Volunteer
WFP World Food Programme
XB Extrabudgetary

93

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

annexes

OCHA Organization Chart
UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL
FOR HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS AND
EMERGENCY RELIEF COORDINATOR
OFFICE OF THE UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL
STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Office of the Chief
Media Relations Section
Design and Multimedia Unit
Public Advocacy and Campaigns Section

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT BRANCH
Office of the Chief
Information Services Section

ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
FOR HUMANITARIAN
AFFAIRS AND DEPUTY
EMERGENCY RELIEF
COORDINATOR

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
POLICY BRANCH
EXECUTIVE OFFICE
Budget and Finance Section
Human Resources Section
Staff Learning and Development Section

Digital Services Section

Staff Welfare Section

The Centre for Humanitarian Data

Supply Chain and Procurement Section

Field Information Services

Evaluation and Oversight Section

ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT

Travel Section

SENIOR ADVISER ON INTERNAL DISPLACEMENT

COORDINATION
DIVISION
INTER-AGENCY
SUPPORT BRANCH
Inter-Agency Standing Committee
(IASC) Secretariat
Humanitarian Leadership
Strengthening Section
ProCap/GenCap Project

GENDER UNIT

HUMANITARIAN
FINANCING AND RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION DIVISION
POOLED FUNDS
MANAGEMENT BRANCH
Central Emergency Response
Fund secretariat
Country-Based Pooled
Funds Section

IASC's Peer-2-Peer

ASSESSMENT, PLANNING
AND MONITORING BRANCH
Needs and Response Analysis Section
Monitoring and Tools Section
System-Wide Approaches
and Practices Section
Humanitarian-Development
Collaboration Section

RESPONSE SUPPORT
BRANCH
Emergency Response Section
Civil-Military Coordination Service

94

PARTNERSHIPS AND RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION BRANCH
Donor Relations Section
External Relations
and Partnerships Section

OPERATIONS AND
ADVOCACY DIVISION
Section
Europe, Latin America and the
Caribbean, Asia and the Pacific
(ELACAP)
Section
West and Central Africa (Africa II)
Section
Southern and Eastern Africa (Africa I)
Section
Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
Office of the Director
Policy Advice and Planning Section
OAD Geneva
COVID-19 Team

Inter-Governmental Policy Section
Humanitarian Financing Strategy
and Analysis Section

Field offices

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

annexes

OPERATIONS AND
ADVOCACY DIVISION

EUROPE, LATIN AMERICA AND
THE CARIBBEAN, ASIA AND
THE PACIFIC (ELACAP)

SOUTHERN AND
EASTERN AFRICA (AFRICA I)

Regional Office for Asia and the
Pacific (ROAP)

Regional Office for Southern and
Eastern Africa (ROSEA)

Regional Office for Latin America and
the Caribbean (ROLAC)

Burundi

Office of the Pacific
Afghanistan
Colombia
Haiti
Myanmar
Ukraine
Venezuela

WEST AND
CENTRAL AFRICA (AFRICA II)
Regional Office for West and
Central Africa (ROWCA)
Burkina Faso
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Mali
Niger
Nigeria

Eritrea
Ethiopia
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan

MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA (MENA)
Regional Office for Middle East and
North Africa (ROMENA)
Regional Office for the Syria Crisis
(ROSC)
Iraq
Jordan
Lebanon
Libya
occupied Palestinian territories
Syria
Türkiye
United Arab Emirates (Abu Dhabi)
Yemen

95

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

annexes

Financial tables
DONOR INCOME OVERVIEW - PAID + PLEDGED
DONORS RANKED BY TOTAL FUNDING IN 2021
(US$ MILLION)
2019

2020

2021

Total

OCHA
programme

CBPFs

CERF

Total

OCHA
programme

CBPFs

CERF

Total

Germany

18.31

166.69

105.42

290.42

14.21%

24.97

224.33

125.23

374.52

United Kingdom

29.23

319.69

394.57

743.49

36.37%

35.98

182.12

88.60

7.66

62.67

61.06

131.38

6.43%

7.92

75.09

Sweden

33.46

89.19

82.30

204.95

10.02%

31.27

Norway

14.70

44.49

53.07

112.27

5.49%

Canada

10.17

19.78

21.65

51.60

Denmark

4.55

45.98

25.43

Belgium

6.35

48.16

19.26

55.11

31.25

Ireland

3.71

35.35

Switzerland

6.83

23.62

France

3.42

11.48

Italy

1.10

5.50

Finland

2.82

Australia

7.16

Netherlands

United States

15.26

OCHA
programme

CBPFs

CERF

Total

21.35%

26.24

393.64

153.38

573.26

27.85%

306.70

17.49%

38.29

164.90

88.54

291.73

14.17%

95.78

178.79

10.19%

8.47

90.74

94.98

194.19

9.43%

70.44

80.78

182.49

10.40%

35.34

60.61

70.37

166.33

8.08%

14.37

42.36

52.41

109.14

6.22%

15.58

54.13

54.80

124.51

6.05%

2.52%

10.65

36.54

21.90

69.10

3.94%

12.12

62.94

23.42

98.48

4.78%

75.96

3.72%

10.64

34.52

31.26

76.42

4.36%

11.43

50.24

32.48

94.15

4.57%

73.77

3.61%

7.23

52.25

24.98

84.45

4.81%

7.64

57.34

20.59

85.57

4.16%

86.36

4.22%

50.20

10.00

60.20

3.43%

49.59

30.41

80.00

3.89%

11.28

50.34

2.46%

4.25

34.98

10.68

49.91

2.85%

4.63

48.25

13.20

66.08

3.21%

6.95

37.40

1.83%

7.97

28.33

24.24

60.54

3.45%

6.97

30.63

5.54

43.14

2.10%

14.90

0.73%

3.64

12.94

1.14

17.72

1.01%

5.95

31.22

3.66

40.82

1.98%

3.96

10.56

0.52%

0.75

9.05

5.90

15.69

0.89%

20.52

17.11

37.63

1.83%

9.04

11.86

0.58%

2.76

1.19

15.34

19.30

1.10%

3.03

20.62

23.65

1.15%

7.84

30.27

1.48%

6.70

13.93

7.52

28.15

1.60%

7.87

5.43

8.52

21.82

1.06%

14.59

0.71%

12.87

4.42

17.29

0.99%

15.14

4.55

19.68

0.96%

European
Commission

14.59

Korea,
Republic of

1.70

7.80

5.00

14.50

0.71%

2.17

11.05

5.82

19.04

1.09%

2.00

8.50

6.00

16.50

0.80%

Luxembourg

1.00

3.57

5.56

10.13

0.50%

0.98

4.13

5.40

10.51

0.60%

1.10

5.35

6.02

12.47

0.61%

Qatar

10.00

3.50

1.00

14.50

0.71%

10.36

5.20

1.00

16.56

0.94%

8.00

2.00

1.00

11.00

0.53%

Saudi Arabia

15.97

0.15

16.12

0.79%

0.50

0.15

0.65

0.04%

9.23

9.23

0.45%

New Zealand

3.42

2.25

2.01

7.68

0.38%

2.96

8.06

14.49

0.83%

3.51

2.44

2.09

8.03

0.39%

Japan

5.82

0.40

0.68

6.90

0.34%

5.65

0.26

5.92

0.34%

6.31

0.80

0.13

7.24

0.35%

United
Arab Emirates

1.75

5.00

6.75

0.33%

2.00

5.00

7.00

0.40%

2.00

5.00

7.00

0.34%

Spain

3.55

3.32

10.03

0.49%

4.24

3.58

10.75

0.61%

0.56

2.83

6.77

0.33%

Austria

1.20

1.20

0.06%

1.32

1.21

2.53

0.14%

1.12

1.59

2.71

0.13%

Russian
Federation

0.97

1.50

2.47

0.12%

1.00

1.50

2.50

0.14%

1.00

1.50

2.50

0.12%

Iceland

0.21

0.40

0.41

1.02

0.05%

0.50

0.96

0.72

2.18

0.12%

0.50

1.18

0.74

2.42

0.12%

Estonia

0.58

0.06

0.11

0.75

0.04%

0.58

0.24

0.11

0.93

0.05%

0.74

0.12

0.18

1.04

0.05%

Türkiye

0.50

0.40

0.90

0.04%

0.50

0.45

0.95

0.05%

0.50

0.45

0.95

0.05%

Poland

0.49

0.52

1.01

0.05%

0.78

0.24

1.02

0.06%

0.56

0.56

0.03%

Non ODSG

0.97

4.96

4.40

10.34

0.51%

0.80

3.02

4.79

8.61

0.49%

0.56

9.20

0.45%

267.32

945.73

831.38

2,044.43

266.52

863.46

624.05

GRAND TOTAL

96

3.16

100%

3.46

2.93

1,754.03

100%

3.38

5.10

286.00 1,134.40

3.54

638.27 2,058.68

100%

Totals include paid and pledged contributions.
Note: CBPF MPTF; source is GMS based on actual cash received while CBPF OCHA, source is OCT based on pledge value.

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

annexes

PROGRAMME INCOME
2021 OCHA PROGRAMME DONOR INCOME (US$)
Donor

Earmarked

Softly Earmarked

Unearmarked

Total

United States

43,593,620

2,500,000

3,500,000

49,593,620

2,653,552

1,080,182

34,556,169

38,289,903

-

13,181,792

22,161,431

35,343,223

Germany

14,892,131

5,447,942

5,903,484

26,243,557

Norway

4,686,539

363,758

10,533,700

15,583,997

13,835,768

1,299,329

-

15,135,097

4,448,124

6,069,941

1,597,610

12,115,675

United Kingdom
Sweden

European Commission
Canada
Denmark

-

-

11,431,415

11,431,415

Saudi Arabia

-

8,734,504

500,000

9,234,504

Netherlands

-

-

8,474,576

8,474,576

Qatar

-

-

8,000,000

8,000,000

Australia

-

786,864

7,081,776

7,868,640

Belgium

-

563,063

7,073,171

7,636,234

Switzerland

4,553,373

217,628

2,195,390

6,966,391

Japan

4,295,000

1,400,000

614,008

6,309,008

France

1,371,951

914,634

3,658,537

5,945,122

Ireland

805,194

-

3,823,178

4,628,372
3,512,500

New Zealand

-

-

3,512,500

Finland

-

-

3,033,981

3,033,981

500,000

-

1,500,000

2,000,000

United Arab Emirates
Korea, Republic of

-

-

2,000,000

2,000,000

Austria

-

1,013,514

108,592

1,122,106

121,951

-

975,610

1,097,561

-

-

1,000,000

1,000,000

Estonia

562,707

-

179,211

741,918

Poland

564,810

-

-

564,810

Spain

563,063

-

-

563,063

-

-

500,000

500,000

Luxembourg
Russian Federation

Iceland
Türkiye

-

-

500,000

500,000

Greece

171,645

-

-

171,645

Portugal

84,459

-

-

84,459

Jersey

66,489

-

-

66,489

Mexico

50,000

-

-

50,000
36,720

Monaco

-

-

36,720

China

-

-

27,000

27,000

Singapore

-

-

19,980

19,980

Azerbaijan

16,667

-

-

16,667

Latvia

11,261

-

-

11,261

Malaysia

10,000

-

-

10,000

Kazakhstan

-

-

97,858,302

43,573,150

144,508,039

Private Donations**

50,000

-

-

UN, NGOs and other entities

10,678

-

-

Subtotal

60,678

-

-

97,918,980

43,573,150

144,508,039

Subtotal

TOTAL 2020

10,000

Totals include paid and pledged
contributions. This year's figures
reflect the cash methodology
i.e Paid amount (US$ is actually
cash value) and Pledge (US$
value is calculated at the time
the pledge was signed).

10,000
285,939,491
50,000
10,678
60,678
286,000,169

97

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

annexes

TOP 20 DONORS
VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS – BREAKDOWN OF TOP 20 DONOR EARMARKING IN 2021 (US$)
United States

United
Kingdom

Sweden

Germany

Norway

European
Commission

Canada

3,500,000

34,556,169

22,161,431

5,903,484

10,533,700

-

1,597,610

11,431,415

500,000

46,093,620

3,733,734

13,181,792

20,340,073

5,050,297

15,135,097

10,518,065

-

8,734,504

HEADQUARTER

12,468,620

-

-

1,062,627

-

-

240,116

-

-

FIELD

33,625,000

3,733,734

13,181,792

19,277,446

5,050,297

15,135,097

10,277,949

-

8,734,504

6,000,000

46,696

1,940,590

586,166

-

365,322

3,288,325

-

-

1,000,000

-

508,932

-

-

-

575,457

-

-

1,500,000

-

334,703

-

-

-

1,233,122

-

-

1,500,000

-

424,110

586,166

-

365,322

739,873

-

-

1,000,000

-

283,122

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

46,696

389,723

-

-

-

739,873

-

-

27,625,000

3,687,038

11,241,202

18,691,280

5,050,297

14,769,775

6,989,624

-

8,734,504

Office
UNEARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS
EARMARKED AND
SOFTLY EARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS

REGIONAL OFFICES
Regional Office for Asia
and the Pacific
Regional Office for Latin
America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Southern
and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for the
Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for West and
Central Africa

COUNTRY OFFICES
Africa

Burkina Faso

900,000

14,837

-

1,204,932

-

484,261

205,520

-

-

Burundi

500,000

-

151,304

586,166

-

302,664

-

-

-

Cameroon

700,000

-

298,023

611,995

52,139

726,392

164,416

-

-

1,500,000

-

745,058

1,189,061

485,011

791,531

246,624

-

-

Central African Republic
Chad

-

-

393,161

605,327

67,902

726,046

411,041

-

-

1,000,000

-

1,100,393

1,218,029

363,759

1,217,741

575,457

-

-

-

-

178,814

242,131

-

-

164,416

-

-

Ethiopia

2,500,000

-

435,572

1,787,434

349,967

954,654

243,854

-

-

Mali

1,200,000

24,003

416,086

608,273

72,145

359,567

205,520

-

-

900,000

32,731

362,213

608,273

62,081

479,423

164,416

-

-

Nigeria

1,125,000

-

614,386

1,189,061

473,250

605,327

205,520

-

-

Somalia

1,500,000

697,350

618,971

611,995

242,506

605,327

205,520

-

-

South Sudan

2,500,000

-

762,251

1,217,322

606,264

Sudan

3,000,000

-

653,358

1,199,857

17,325,000

768,921

6,729,590

12,879,856

Myanmar

600,000

-

334,703

Office of the Pacific Islands

200,000

-

800,000

-

800,000

Democratic Republic
of the Congo
Eritrea

Niger

898,917

164,416

-

-

1,217,741

246,624

-

-

2,775,024

9,369,591

3,203,344

-

-

363,196

-

302,664

158,126

-

-

120,355

-

-

-

246,624

-

-

455,058

363,196

-

302,664

404,750

-

-

-

691,184

726,392

905,116

601,495

205,520

-

-

800,000

-

691,184

726,392

905,116

601,495

205,520

-

-

500,000

-

288,853

242,131

157,629

299,639

82,208

-

-

500,000

-

288,853

242,131

157,629

299,639

82,208

-

-

Colombia

700,000

-

-

-

-

363,196

-

-

-

Haiti

250,000

-

103,162

-

-

304,435

-

-

-

1,000,000

-

149,012

-

-

1,210,654

328,832

-

-

1,950,000

-

252,174

-

-

1,878,285

328,832

-

-

1,050,000

-

573,121

1,092,535

-

-

1,450,056

-

-

200,000

1,208,564

348,458

363,196

-

299,639

-

-

-

Africa Total
Asia and the Pacific

Asia and the
Pacific Total
Central Asia, Pakistan
Afghanistan
and Afghanistan
Central Asia, Pakistan
and Afghanistan Total
Europe

Ukraine

Europe Total
Latin America and
the Caribbean

Venezuela support
Latin America and the
Caribbean Total
Middle East, Northern &
Iraq
Central Asia
Libya
oPt
Syria *
United Arab Emirates
Yemen

98

Middle East, Northern &
Central Asia Total

GRAND TOTAL

Denmark Saudi Arabia

-

-

477,983

606,796

-

719,133

394,394

-

-

2,000,000

1,709,553

1,321,619

605,326

727,517

1,299,329

509,479

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,000,000

-

103,162

1,811,852

485,011

-

411,041

-

8,734,504

6,250,000

2,918,117

2,824,343

4,479,705

1,212,528

2,318,101

2,764,970

-

8,734,504

49,593,620

38,289,903

35,343,223

26,243,557

15,583,997

15,135,097

12,115,675

11,431,415

9,234,504

*Total for Syria includes funding to the following offices: Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Türkiye, as well as funding to the Syria Regional Humanitarian Coordinator.

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

annexes

Finland

United Arab
Emirates

Others

GRAND
TOTAL

3,512,500

3,033,981

1,500,000

5,357,113

144,508,039

805,194

-

-

500,000

3,297,244

141,492,130

-

-

-

-

-

398,516

16,322,606

Netherlands

Qatar

Australia

Belgium

Switzerland

Japan

France

Ireland New Zealand

8,474,576

8,000,000

7,081,776

7,073,171

2,195,390

614,008

3,658,537

3,823,178

-

-

786,864

563,063

4,771,001

5,695,000

2,286,585

-

-

-

563,063

1,589,664

-

-

-

786,864

-

3,181,337

5,695,000

2,286,585

805,194

-

-

500,000

2,898,728

125,169,524

-

-

629,491

-

-

320,000

-

-

-

-

-

44,820

13,221,410

-

-

629,491

-

-

320,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,033,880

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,067,825

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

44,820

3,660,291

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,283,122

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,176,292

-

-

157,373

-

3,181,337

5,375,000

2,286,585

805,194

-

-

500,000

2,853,908

111,948,115

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,809,550

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,540,134

-

-

-

-

318,134

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,871,099

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,957,283

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,203,477

-

-

-

-

-

400,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,875,379

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

585,361

-

-

-

-

371,156

600,000

-

563,063

-

-

-

373,822

8,179,522

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

242,949

3,128,543

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,609,137

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,212,544

-

-

-

-

318,134

500,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,299,803

-

-

-

-

318,134

400,000

-

-

-

-

-

1,013,514

7,880,818

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

6,317,580

-

-

-

-

1,325,558

1,900,000

-

563,063

-

-

-

1,630,285

58,470,230

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,758,689

-

-

157,373

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

724,352

-

-

157,373

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,483,041

-

-

-

-

-

1,100,000

-

-

-

-

-

227,292

5,256,999

-

-

-

-

-

1,100,000

-

-

-

-

-

227,292

5,256,999

-

-

-

-

265,111

-

-

-

-

-

-

149,343

1,984,914

-

-

-

-

265,111

-

-

-

-

-

-

149,343

1,984,914

-

-

-

-

265,111

-

-

-

-

-

-

225,225

1,553,532

-

-

-

-

-

-

152,439

-

-

-

-

-

810,036

-

-

-

-

265,111

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,953,609

-

-

-

-

530,222

-

152,439

-

-

-

-

225,225

5,317,177

-

-

-

-

-

550,000

-

-

-

-

-

69,737

4,785,449

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,419,857

-

-

-

-

530,223

450,000

914,634

242,131

-

-

-

59,737

4,395,031

-

-

-

-

530,223

1,000,000

1,219,512

-

-

-

-

492,289

11,414,847

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

500,000

-

500,000

-

-

-

-

-

375,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

14,920,570

-

-

-

-

1,060,446

2,375,000

2,134,146

242,131

-

-

500,000

621,763

38,435,754

8,474,576

8,000,000

7,868,640

7,636,234

6,966,391

6,309,008

5,945,122

4,628,372

3,512,500

3,033,981

2,000,000

8,654,357

286,000,169

99

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

annexes

ALLOCATION OF UNEARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS

ALLOCATION OF UNEARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2021 (US$)
HEADQUARTERS

49,054,651

FIELD ACTIVITIES

82,211,863

REGIONAL OFFICE
Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific

3,876,780

Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean

1,303,721

Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa

2,091,099

Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa

1,553,025

Regional Office for West and Central Africa

2,372,899

AFRICA
Burundi
Cameroon

299,000
1,446,270

Central African Republic

6,592,832

Chad

3,281,978

Democratic Republic of Congo

9,992,368

Eritrea

274,366

Ethiopia

693,750

Mali

3,026,176

Niger

2,457,243

Nigeria

4,211,164

Somalia

4,144,236

South Sudan

3,952,118

Sudan

2,086,600

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Myanmar
Office of the Pacific Islands

2,619,357
506,472

Central Asia, Pakistan and Afghanistan
Afghanistan

6,202,363

EUROPE
Ukraine

1,997,972

LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Haiti

461,634

Venezuela support

268,094

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Iraq

2,313,862

Libya

1,328,418

occupied Palestinian territory

2,524,795

Syria

2,760,729

Syria OCHA Operation in Jordan
Syria OCHA Operation in Lebanon
Syria OCHA Operation in Türkiye
United Arab Emirates

1,564,027
425,350
271,115

Yemen

3,421,276

Syria, Regional Office for the Syria Crisis (ROSC)

1,202,605

Total allocated in 2021
With flexible implementation carried through 2022
GRAND TOTAL

100

688,169

131,266,514
28,464,956
159,731,470

Note: The difference of $15.2 M, between
unearmarked donor contributions received
in 2021 ($144.5 M) and unearmarked cash
that was utilized ($159.7M) is due to: 1) donor
unpaid contributions by the end of 2021; 2)
cash received in 2021 for pending unpaid 2020
pledges; 3) carry-over from 2020.

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

annexes

FINANCIAL STATUS

OCHA FINANCIAL STATUS AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2021 (US$)

OCHA-Mandated Programme
and Administrative Activities

Programme
Activities (a.)

CBPF Humanitarian
Financing Units (b.)

Total Trust fund excluding
CBPF grants-out (a+b)

Administrative
Activities

Regular
Budget

Opening Balance - 1 Jan 2021¹

190,352,131

11,723,702

202,962,426

-

-

2021 Donor Contributions for
Programme Activities2

286,000,169

15,954,276

301,954,446

-

-

2021 Income for Administrative Activities
(Transfer of Programme Support Charges)3

-

-

-

33,098,663

-

2021 Allocation for Regular Budget

-

-

-

-

17,513,200

476,352,300

27,677,979

504,030,279

33,098,663

17,513,200

-17,091,481

-1,601,383

-18,692,864

-

-

-246,408,935

-22,870,781

-269,279,715

-33,028,375

-17,350,641

-263,500,416

-24,472,164

-287,972,580

-33,028,375

-17,350,641

212,851,884

3,205,815

216,057,699

70,288

162,559

286,412

5,856,742

6,143,154

-

-

213,138,296

9,062,557

222,200,853

-

-

Increase / (Decrease) in opening balance

22,786,165

-2,661,146

20,125,019

-

-

AVAILABLE BALANCE FOR SPENDING

213,138,296

9,062,557

222,200,853

-

-

Available Funds
Transfer of Programme Support Charges (PSC)
Direct Expenditure

4

Total Expenditure Charged against

5

Net Available Funds before Other Income,
adjustments, transfers, refunds
Other income, adjustments, transfers, refunds
Closing Balance

Project SIDP used to be categorized as OCHA-Mandated Programme in 2020, then it was changed to category SDC starting in 2021, hence, by removing SIDP, the opening balance
reduced by $886,592.

1

2

For programme activities it includes paid contributions and unpaid pledges totalling $11.29 million.

3

Transfer of PSC for administrative activities, including PSC levied from programme activities, CBPFs, and Specially Designated Contributions.

4

Includes disbursements and unliquidated obligations as at 31 December 2021.

For programme activities, expenditure charged against budget is the direct programme expenditure plus programme support transfers. For administrative and regular budget
activities, it is the direct expenditure only.
5

IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS
IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)
Entity

Description

UNHCR

Technical assistance/expert services

US$

WFP

Technical assistance/expert services

82,386

UNICEF

Technical assistance/expert services

78,538
71,835

112,613

FAO

Technical assistance/expert services

Government, International Humanitarian City Dubai - UAE

Office Space

15,666

Asian Disaster Reduction Center, Kobe, Japan

Office Space

44,033
69,000

Government - Beirut, Lebanon

Office Space

WFP - Dori, Burkina Faso

Office Space

6,659

Government - Almaty, Kazakhstan

Office Space

7,620

Government - Dushanbe, Tajikistan

Office Space

5,300

Government - Mishref, Kuwait

Office Space

10,000

101

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

annexes

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE
OCHA BUDGET AND
EXPENDITURE IN 2021 (US$)
REGULAR BUDGET ACTIVITIES

Extrabudgetary Administrative Activities

Mandated Programme Activities
Original budget

Final budget

Expenditure

17,442,100

17,513,200

17,350,641

1,297,833
2,364,700
26,394,872
1,813,075
420,888

1,563,453
2,829,969
26,133,363
1,813,076
420,888

7,668,607

Expend. Rate Original budget

Final budget

Expenditure

Expend Rate

99%

-

-

-

-

1,239,727
2,554,859
24,847,387
1,504,611
341,190

79%
90%
95%
83%
81%

8,860,694
10,689,242
-

8,845,222
10,704,715
-

8,141,019
10,469,988
-

7,835,348

7,559,788

96%

11,467,120

11,467,120

11,037,232

596,914
9,138,614
11,294,770
541,352
4,464,718
65,996,343

699,249
9,233,582
11,230,570
469,147
4,534,588
66,763,233

650,729
9,082,253
11,142,728
292,489
4,527,713
63,743,474

93%
98%
99%
62%
100%
95%

3,268,937
34,285,993

3,268,937
34,285,994

3,275,150
32,923,389

25,421,357

22,843,890

22,739,881

100%

-

-

-

-

6,819,735
4,354,836
5,500,000
3,509,565
5,237,221

6,692,787
3,781,117
5,327,020
2,844,858
4,198,108

6,685,376
3,776,740
5,242,329
2,844,472
4,190,964

100%
100%
98%
100%
100%

-

-

-

-

172,385,795
94,802,731

176,048,518
100,643,751

174,772,666
99,670,435

99%
99%

-

-

-

-

2,243,594
1,808,000
4,177,630
10,350,005
5,261,426
15,699,973
895,000
5,926,000
5,612,000
4,829,591
8,609,798
9,086,057
11,000,001
9,303,656
5,661,622

2,614,032
1,898,561
4,111,080
11,443,396
5,338,556
15,632,106
813,080
7,672,730
6,968,659
4,987,572
8,588,672
8,971,131
12,616,979
8,987,197
5,535,521

2,562,643
1,845,367
4,102,163
11,426,924
5,327,653
15,527,728
812,710
7,613,844
6,627,888
4,987,919
8,549,296
8,947,594
12,616,978
8,721,727
5,513,820

98%
97%
100%
100%
100%
99%
100%
99%
95%
100%
100%
100%
100%
97%
100%

4,383,155
1,278,467
10,049,691

4,404,555
1,130,966
10,695,213

4,396,178
1,117,642
10,682,247

100%
99%
100%

10,049,691
3,705,981

10,695,213
3,807,147

10,682,247
3,795,641

100%
100%

3,705,981
5,935,606

3,807,147
5,968,720

3,795,641
5,886,443

100%
99%

1,466,001
1,282,520
3,187,085
51,467,124

1,468,864
1,354,501
3,145,355
49,398,166

1,462,157
1,284,599
3,139,687
49,224,080

100%
95%
100%
100%

7,914,758
4,763,726
6,885,470
6,443,239
1,066,241
2,116,000
3,579,819
4,102,824
915,047
13,680,001
763,041

6,955,717
3,787,999
6,473,057
6,272,780
1,177,949
2,308,600
3,154,461
3,736,059
778,028
13,733,996
1,019,520
-

6,959,059
3,752,146
6,459,213
6,220,932
1,173,096
2,297,829
3,138,385
3,718,825
771,453
13,733,490
999,653
-

100%
99%
100%
99%
100%
100%
99%
100%
99%
100%
98%
0%

-

-

-

-

763,041

-

-

0%

-

-

-

-

197,807,152

198,892,408

197,512,547

99%

-

-

-

-

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES
HEADQUARTERS
OFFICE OF USG/ASG
CENTRAL COSTS
COORDINATION
EXECUTIVE OFFICE
GENDER
HUMANITARIAN FINANCING AND RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION DIVISION
IDP
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
OPERATIONS AND ADVOCACY
ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS
HEADQUARTERS Total
FIELD
REGIONAL OFFICES
Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for West and Central Africa
COUNTRY OFFICES
AFRICA
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Mali
Niger
Nigeria
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Myanmar
Office of the Pacific Islands
CENTRAL ASIA, PAKISTAN AND AFGHANISTAN
Afghanistan
EUROPE
Ukraine
LATIN AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN
Colombia
Haiti
Venezuela support
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Iraq
Libya
Occupied Palestinian Territory
Syria
Syria OCHA Operation in Jordan
Syria OCHA Operation in Lebanon
Syria OCHA Operation in Türkiye
Syria, Regional Office for the Syria Crisis (ROSC)
United Arab Emirates
Yemen
Yemen - Saudi Arabia Grant
OAD FRONT OFFICE
Field surge
FIELD Total

102

92%
98%
96%
100%

96%

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

annexes

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES

34,285,993 34,285,994 32,923,389

96%

263,803,495

265,655,641

261,256,021

98%

32,317,165

33,521,118

24,472,164

73%

-

-

-

-

Afghanistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

2,386,319

2,628,991

1,839,537

70%

-

-

-

-

Central African Republic - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

1,610,233

1,610,233

1,597,020

99%

-

-

-

-

Democratic Republic of Congo - CBPF Humanitarian
Financing Unit

4,510,870

4,508,358

3,396,072

75%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

CBPF HUMANITARIAN FINANCING UNITS

Ethiopia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Iraq - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Jordan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Lebanon - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Myanmar - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Nigeria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
oPt - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Pakistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Regional Office in Dakar - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

1,379,628
1,136,471
519,108
586,918
599,649
1,561,640
669,832
228,278
-

1,379,628
1,136,471
519,108
723,420
599,648
1,519,684
693,213
228,278
459,544

910,887
843,554
446,757
401,771
489,785
1,219,197
590,425
123,445
161,411

66%
74%
86%
56%
82%
80%
85%
54%
35%

-

-

-

-

Somalia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

2,009,638

2,152,548

1,618,431

75%

-

-

-

-

South Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Syria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Türkiye - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Ukraine - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Venezuela - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

2,374,897
2,481,871
2,020,580
3,515,299
626,311
596,936

2,572,278
2,481,871
2,020,579
3,594,907
592,734
596,937

1,987,079
1,776,875
1,202,885
1,827,959
309,860
324,862

77%
72%
60%
51%
52%
54%

-

-

-

-

Yemen - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

3,502,688

3,502,688

3,404,354

97%

-

-

-

-

ONE-OFF DECENTRALIZATION COSTS

-

3,289,733

2,131,017

65%

-

311,114

102,743

33%

DORMANT ACCOUNTS AND OTHERS

-

-

113,378

0%

-

-

2,243

0%

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES INCLUDING CBPF, ONE-OFF
DECENTRALIZATION, DORMANT AND OTHERS TOTAL

296,120,660

302,466,492

287,972,580

95%

34,285,993

34,597,108

33,028,375

99%

TOTAL OCHA ACTIVITIES (REGULAR BUDGET AND
EXTRABUDGETARY)

313,562,760 319,979,692 305,323,220

95%

34,285,993

34,597,108

33,028,375

99%

103

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

annexes

DONOR RANKING SORTED BY (TOTAL)

DONOR RANKING FOR PROGRAMMATIC ACTIVITIES
Donor

OCHA Programme

Pass-through contributions

Total
53,468,620

MEMBER STATES
United States

49,593,620

3,875,000

United Kingdom

38,289,903

349,638

38,639,541

Sweden

35,343,223

-

35,343,223

Germany

26,243,557

2,418,387

28,661,944

Norway

15,583,997

1,749,837

17,333,834

European Commission

15,135,097

479,405

15,614,502

Denmark

11,431,415

1,103,319

12,534,734

Saudi Arabia
Canada

9,234,504

3,265,496

12,500,000

12,115,675

80,039

12,195,714
11,622,372

Netherlands

8,474,576

3,147,796

Qatar

8,000,000

203,021

8,203,021

Australia

7,868,640

-

7,868,640

Switzerland

6,966,391

767,918

7,734,309

Belgium

7,636,234

-

7,636,234

Japan

6,309,008

-

6,309,008

France

5,945,122

-

5,945,122

Ireland

4,628,372

-

4,628,372

New Zealand

3,512,500

-

3,512,500

Finland

3,033,981

-

3,033,981

United Arab Emirates

2,000,000

500,000

2,500,000

Korea, Republic of

2,000,000

-

2,000,000

10,678

1,254,802

1,265,480

Luxembourg

1,097,561

56,306

1,153,867

Austria

1,122,106

-

1,122,106

Russian Federation

1,000,000

UN, NGOs and other entities

1,000,000

-

Estonia

741,918

23,895

765,813

Spain

563,063

56,306

619,369

Poland

564,810

22,396

587,206

Türkiye

500,000

-

500,000

Iceland

500,000

-

500,000

Greece

171,645

-

171,645

Private Donations

50,000

77,526

127,526

Portugal

84,459

-

84,459

China

27,000

50,000

77,000

Jersey

66,489

-

66,489

Mexico

50,000

-

50,000

Monaco

36,720

-

36,720

Singapore

19,980

-

19,980

Costa Rica

-

18,487

18,487

Azerbaijan

16,667

-

16,667

Latvia

11,261

-

11,261

Malaysia

10,000

-

10,000

Kazakhstan

10,000

-

10,000

Czech Republic

-

5,000

5,000

Algeria

-

4,982

4,982

OTHERS
Jersey

66,489

-

66,489

UN entities

10,678

1,254,802

1,265,480

-

77,526

University of Ottawa
UPS Foundation
TOTAL

104

50,000
286,000,169

77,526
50,000

19,509,556

305,509,725

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

annexes

CERF CONTRIBUTIONS

2021 DONOR INCOME TO CERF (US$)
DONOR
Germany

AMOUNT
153,378,000

Netherlands

94,982,700

United Kingdom

88,538,410

Sweden

70,374,300

Norway

54,795,260

Denmark

32,483,317

Canada

23,424,484

Finland

20,620,715

Belgium

20,587,000

Italy

17,113,900

Ireland

13,204,560

Australia

8,515,088

Luxembourg

6,021,500

Korea, Republic of

6,000,000

Switzerland

5,539,553

United Arab Emirates

5,000,000

France

3,658,537

Spain

2,829,250

New Zealand

2,086,200

Austria

1,585,080

Russian Federation

1,500,000

Qatar

1,000,000

Iceland

735,298

China

450,000

Türkiye

450,000

Czech Republic

230,436

Liechtenstein

224,694

Portugal

208,913

Estonia

181,995

Japan

129,629

Monaco

119,270

Morocco

100,000

Turkmenistan

100,000

Uzbekistan

100,000

Slovenia

56,540

Philippines

50,000

Singapore

50,000

Brunei Darussalam

50,000

Kazakhstan

35,000

Bangladesh

25,000

Algeria

20,000

Thailand

20,000

Andorra

17,753

Myanmar

10,000

Vietnam

10,000

Mongolia

10,000

Yemen

10,000

Tunisia

5,000

Armenia

5,000

Sri Lanka

5,000

Maldives

5,000

Montenegro

3,588

Lao People's Democratic Republic

3,000

Peru

2,704

Fiji

2,392

Bhutan

1,500

Subtotal
Observers, regional and local authority
Private Donations
Subtotal
GRAND TOTAL

636,665,566
1,465,045
142,345
1,607,390
638,272,956

105

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

annexes

CBPFs CONTRIBUTIONS

OCHA-managed
Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office managed

COUNTRY-BASED POOLED FUNDS: CONTRIBUTIONS BY DONOR AND FUND IN 2021 (US$)
Recipient

Afghanistan

Burkina Faso

CAR1

DRC2

Ethiopia

Iraq

Jordan

Lebanon

Myanmar

Niger

Germany

93,458,567

1,126,126

15,133,916

23,347,749

24,735,114

9,917,118

2,344,666

8,067,710

4,031,381

5,966,587

United Kingdom

82,416,700

-

4,774,960

18,268,291

10,556,579

-

-

3,424,759

-

Netherlands

23,078,900

5,733,945

-

7,247,790

-

-

-

-

-

-

Canada

6,488,047

120,804

2,500,033

6,434,479

7,133,802

1,195,081

-

796,721

806,728

597,454

Sweden

8,639,847

-

1,379,286

5,747,025

5,402,204

804,584

-

1,724,108

1,609,167

-

Donor

Belgium

2,262,048

3,537,736

-

10,348,725

-

-

-

8,374,552

-

-

Norway

3,512,564

1,212,528

-

1,201,821

4,015,301

-

-

-

-

1,212,528

Denmark

16,099,278

5,302,227

-

-

4,606,566

-

-

2,449,623

-

5,592,952

Ireland

1,738,732

-

3,638,391

3,003,491

11,399,882

1,193,317

-

1,789,976

563,063

563,063

France

13,513,514

1,219,512

563,063

-

1,219,512

-

-

609,756

-

-

4,157,795

648,649

1,411,957

-

2,513,186

-

-

1,102,536

1,624,618

994,595

Switzerland
United States
Italy
Korea, Republic of
Australia
Luxembourg

-

-

3,000,000

-

12,000,000

-

-

-

1,000,000

-

12,055,452

-

1,175,210

-

582,751

563,063

582,751

1,407,658

-

-

-

750,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

300,000

750,000

1,572,815

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,859,751

-

426,039

426,829

365,176

426,039

-

365,854

-

-

426,829

-

European Commission

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Spain

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

New Zealand

-

-

-

-

1,217,825

-

-

-

1,217,825

-

Qatar

-

-

-

-

-

-

500,000

500,000

-

-

192,604

-

-

-

-

-

-

194,295

-

207,314

Japan

-

-

-

-

-

400,000

-

-

-

-

Lithuania

-

-

--

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Croatia

136,086

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Estonia

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Azerbaijan

-

16,667

-

-

16,667

-

-

-

-

-

Malaysia

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Iceland

100,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Cyprus

Montenegro

57,176

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Greece

36,845

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Malta

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Brunei Darussalam

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Mexico

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Romania

-

-

-

--

-

-

-

-

-

-

Morocco

-

-

-

25,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

Philippines

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

347,806

-

132,979

-

-

-

-

-

143,760

-

1,432

13,991

3,775

3,189

150

33,199

6,654

-

Jersey
Private Donations³
UN, NGOs and
other entities4
GRAND TOTAL (US$)

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,000,000

-

270,086,769

20,095,023

34,291,230

57,796,110

93,247,855

24,998,785

3,427,567

27,050,134

20,870,775

15,884,493

Totals include paid and pledged contributions.									
1

Central African Republic; 2Democratic Republic of the Congo; 3Includes funds received through United Nations Foundation; 4Includes funds received from AGFUND and UNOPS.

106

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

annexes

OCHA-managed
Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office managed

5

Sudan

Syria
Cross-border

Syria

Ukraine

Venezuela

Yemen

19,818,479

24,286,456

64,405,096

3,516,999

5,897,976

4,161,712

29,006,116

393,635,661

3,377,640

13,638,000

19,874,241

4,797,432

-

332,447

-

164,897,549

Nigeria

oPt5

Pakistan

Somalia

South Sudan

13,878,221

12,651,832

-

27,883,840

-

-

-

3,436,500

TOTAL

-

-

-

8,455,755

9,663,720

7,247,790

10,550,996

4,689,332

-

-

14,067,995

90,736,223

3,118,138

-

1,195,081

4,059,441

3,556,247

5,044,015

3,186,883

3,186,883

1,991,802

2,876,529

8,647,444

62,935,612

2,528,691

2,298,810

-

5,652,998

3,793,037

2,873,513

6,892,677

4,597,621

344,822

-

6,321,728

60,610,118

6,097,561

7,209,051

-

-

-

-

4,878,049

8,536,585

-

-

6,097,561

57,341,868

1,818,793

1,212,528

-

4,002,261

5,807,321

1,741,437

11,794,887

11,256,422

727,517

400,134

4,217,950

54,133,992

-

-

-

-

-

-

6,389,530

4,082,678

-

-

5,717,182

50,240,036

1,210,654

475,809

-

4,164,582

3,028,741

3,638,391

4,056,958

-

-

563,063

7,223,687

48,251,800

-

304,878

-

-

-

-

12,566,769

-

-

-

1,219,512

31,216,516

1,088,139

3,299,623

-

1,052,562

2,167,739

-

5,668,231

1,079,914

-

548,847

3,273,440

30,631,831

-

-

-

-

-

7,610,000

-

-

1,000,000

-

5,801,104

30,411,104

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,789,976

2,358,491

-

-

-

20,515,352

-

500,000

-

-

-

-

1,500,000

1,000,000

400,000

800,000

2,500,000

8,500,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,432,566

695,345

-

-

-

365,176

-

-

1,000,223

426,829

-

426,829

5,351,168

-

-

-

-

3,386,766

-

-

-

1,162,791

-

-

4,549,557

-

1,126,126

-

-

-

-

-

1,689,189

-

563,063

-

3,378,378

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,435,650

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

-

-

-

-

2,000,000

-

196,263

-

-

-

-

-

194,295

-

-

196,263

1,181,034

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

400,000

-

-

-

800,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

121,951

-

117,233

239,184

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

136,086

-

-

-

-

-

58,760

-

-

60,976

-

-

119,736

16,667

-

-

-

16,667

-

-

-

-

-

46,667

113,335

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

100,000

100,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

100,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

24,480

81,656

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

35,800

72,645

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

59,243

59,243

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

50,000

50,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

50,000

50,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

28,670

-

-

28,670

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

25,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

10,000

10,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

349,162

-

-

488,827

1,318,774

4,373

9,262

24

5,223

8,883

11,341

2,594

10,885

2,081

-

153,653

414,469

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

150,000

-

-

150,000

2,300,000

30,456,582

29,284,182

1,195,105

58,713,162

54,990,416

66,149,703

154,556,887

52,896,111

12,165,415

10,245,795

96,002,714

1,134,404,813

occupied Palestinian territory

107

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

unocha.org
reliefweb.int
@unocha | @UNReliefChief
facebook.com/UNOCHA

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

