Annual Report
Annual
2020

Report
2021

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Cover: Roma and Egyptian women and youth learned about electoral law changes and voting procedures during a voting education campaign
conducted by the OSCE Presence in Albania ahead of 25 April 2021 parliamentary elections. (OSCE)

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

The Organization for Security
and Co-operation in Europe is

THE WORLD’S
LARGEST REGIONAL
SECURITY
ORGANIZATION
working to ensure peace and stability
for more than a billion people between
Vancouver and Vladivostok.

F O LLOW U S O N
facebook.com/osce.org
twitter.com/OSCE
youtube.com/user/osce
linkedin.com/company/osce
instagram.com/osceorg

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

Published by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)
Communications and Media Relations Section
Office of the Secretary General
OSCE Secretariat
Wallnerstrasse 6
1010 Vienna Austria
www.osce.org
© OSCE 2022
The OSCE Annual Report on OSCE activities and achievements is prepared and submitted
by the OSCE Secretary General. The content of this publication does not necessarily reflect
the views of all OSCE participating States.
All rights reserved. The contents of this publication may be freely used and copied for
educational and other non-commercial purposes, provided that any such reproduction is
accompanied by an acknowledgement of the OSCE as the source.
ISBN 978-3-903128-95-8
Editor: Mary Albon
Design and layout: red hot ’n’ cool
Printed in Luxembourg by Imprimerie Centrale

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Table of contents
MESSAGE FROM THE SECRETARY GENERAL	

5

CHAIRPERSONSHIP	6

PERMANENT COUNCIL	

20

FORUM FOR SECURITY CO-OPERATION	

23

OSCE PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY	

26

FIELD OPERATIONS	
Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine	
Project Co-ordinator in Ukraine	
Observer Mission at the Russian Checkpoints
Gukovo and Donetsk	
Mission to Moldova	
Presence in Albania	
Mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina	
Mission in Kosovo	
Mission to Montenegro	
Mission to Serbia	
Mission to Skopje	
Centre in Ashgabat	
Programme Office in Bishkek	
Programme Office in Dushanbe	
Programme Office in Nur-Sultan	
Project Co-ordinator in Uzbekistan	

29
30
34
37
39
41
43
45
47
49
52
55
57
60
62
65

INSTITUTIONS	67
Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights	 68
High Commissioner on National Minorities	
72
Representative on Freedom of the Media	
74

SECRETARIAT	76
Office of the Secretary General and
central services	
77
Conflict prevention	
79
Transnational threats	
83
Economic and environmental activities	
86
Combating trafficking in human beings	
89
Gender equality	
91
Human resources	
93
Management and finance	
94
Internal oversight	
95

PARTNERSHIPS	96
Asian and Mediterranean Partners for Co-operation	 97
Co-operation with international and
regional organizations	
101

ANNEXES	103
OSCE staff at a glance	
103
Progress towards gender equality	
103
2021 Unified Budget	
104
Contributions by participating States	
106
Extrabudgetary pledges and voluntary contributions	 107
Extrabudgetary expenditures	
108

3

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

OSCE Secretary General Helga Maria Schmid. (OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

4

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Message from the
Secretary General
As I write this message to introduce the 2021 Annual Report,

challenges, co-operation will be more important than ever.

the events of 2022 weigh heavily on us all. Ukraine remains

We also need to engage with younger generations, as the

under siege, with devastation on a scale that has not been

future we are shaping today will be theirs tomorrow.

seen in Europe for decades. Thousands have perished,
millions have sought refuge beyond Ukraine’s borders, and

And in all that we do, we must ensure that we are standing by

many others are displaced within the country. We are in

all of our principles, including gender equality. Empowering

the process of closing the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission

and meaningfully including women – economically, politically,

and the Office of the OSCE Project Co-ordinator in Ukraine

and as peacebuilders – is crucial. Many of the stories in this

(PCUk) is operating out of a temporary location in Uzhhorod

report feature women, not only to showcase how the OSCE

in Western Ukraine. We earnestly hope that peace will be

benefits them and their communities, but to highlight how

restored soon so that Ukrainians can return to their homes

they are contributing to our common security.

and start to rebuild their country. In the meantime, while we
continue the programmatic work in Ukraine conducted by

Throughout 2021, I initiated steps to ensure that the OSCE

PCUk and others to the extent possible, the Organization is

is well equipped to respond effectively to both current and

doing all that it can to facilitate the cessation of hostilities,

future challenges. Through a whole-of-OSCE approach

support the provision of humanitarian assistance, and to help

we are working to more closely link the many entities of

the Ukrainian people in their hour of need.

the Organization. In discussions on how to improve OSCE
effectiveness, a number of challenges were highlighted,

Yet in this moment of crisis we should not lose sight of the

including that of the OSCE budget. Our budget for 2021 saw

importance of the OSCE’s work in all its facets. Our efforts to

a zero nominal growth and was adopted eight months into

strengthen security in all its dimensions – political-military,

the year, severely hampering our activities and the fulfilment

economic and environmental, and human rights – make a

of our mandates. I welcome the intent of many participating

real difference in the lives of women and men across our

States to reform budget processes and increase the OSCE

region and beyond. The 2021 Annual Report shines a light on

budget going forward.

this human impact, with stories about OSCE activities from
the perspective of the individuals and communities that they

In closing, I wish to thank the 2021 Swedish Chairpersonship

serve.

and Troika members Albania and Poland for their cooperation and leadership during last year. I also wish to pay

In 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic threatened global

tribute to the outstanding commitment of OSCE staff across

health and stability for a second year. At the same time,

the entire Organization. Their creativity and dedication

the destructive effects of climate change intensified and

continued to enable the OSCE to fulfil its mandates and

increased in number, with a growing impact on our shared

support our participating States, including in crisis situations

security. The OSCE Ministerial Council’s adoption of a decision

where the OSCE plays an essential role.

to strengthen co-operation on tackling challenges caused by
climate change sends a strong political signal that will add

While this Annual Report is not a comprehensive account of

momentum to the Organization’s work in this area. 2021 also

all our activities in 2021, it illustrates the scope of the OSCE’s

brought instability and humanitarian tragedy to Afghanistan;

work in all three dimensions of security. I invite you to read

and many at the Ministerial Council noted the pressing need

about the work of our remarkable Organization, which is

to mitigate the risks to the to the OSCE region. Supporting

unparalleled in its potential to build trust and foster co-

participating States confronted with the implications of the

operation in our region to strengthen security for us all.

situation in Afghanistan will be an ongoing priority.
I am firmly convinced that in our endeavours to strengthen
security we must focus on the future. The OSCE will continue
its efforts to prevent and manage conflicts and to tackle
current threats to security in all dimensions, but we also need
to be ready to handle emerging challenges. Climate change

Helga Maria Schmid

is one of them. The impact of new technologies, digitalization

OSCE Secretary General Vienna,

and artificial intelligence is another. In confronting these

May 2022

5

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

CHAIRPERSONSHIP
The OSCE Chairpersonship is selected by the OSCE Ministerial Council for a one-year
term. The post of Chairperson-in-Office is held by the foreign minister of the selected
participating State.

Stockholm, Sweden. (Unsplash/Adam Gavlák)

6

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Our commitments, our security,
our OSCE
Chairperson-in-Office: Ann Linde
www.osce.org/chairmanship

Sweden assumed the Chairpersonship in challenging times in the midst of a global pandemic.
Throughout the year, the Chairpersonship sought to defend the European security order,
uphold the OSCE comprehensive concept of security and contribute to the resolution of
conflicts in accordance with international law, standing up for principles and commitments
to which all OSCE participating States have signed up.

G O I N G B AC K T O B A S I C S

Chair’s efforts aimed to ensure that gender equality would be
mainstreamed into all OSCE dimensions and that this would
remain high on the Organization’s agenda in years to come.

Sweden assumed the Chairpersonship at a time when the

Some examples include the newly launched Advisory Group

OSCE region was facing major challenges, with the COVID-19

on Women, Peace and Security in support of the Chair; two

pandemic adding a strain on the region and on international

seminars on the conflict cycle, focusing on inclusive processes

co-operation, resulting in increasing inequalities and

and the role of women and civil society; and a Code of

democratic challenges, adding pressure to an already fragile

Conduct event in Stockholm focusing on women in the armed

security situation.

forces. At the Human Dimension Seminar, which was held for
the first time in four years, particular attention was given to

Throughout the year, the Swedish Chairpersonship

preventing and combating violence against women.

underscored the importance of multilateral co-operation as
a means of addressing common challenges, enabling the

The Chairpersonship also mainstreamed the role of

OSCE to make a difference on the ground and defending the

youth in contributing to the promotion of democracy,

principles on which the Organization was founded. In this

human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule

spirit, Sweden outlined three main priorities:

of law throughout the year. The OSCE’s first Personal
Representative on Children and Security was appointed

•	 Defending the European security order

by the Swedish Chairpersonship.

•	 Upholding the OSCE comprehensive concept of security
•	 Contributing to solving conflicts in accordance with
international law

In the first dimension’s military sphere, the Swedish
Chairpersonship provided both civilian and military highranking officials for various security dialogues – for example,

Sweden stated that it was time to go back to basics,

for a joint meeting of the Forum for Security Co-operation

emphasizing the fundamental tasks of the OSCE.

and the Permanent Council on UNSCR 1325, and for the
High-Level Military Doctrine Seminar. The Annual Security

D E F E N D I N G T H E E U RO PE A N S E C U R I T Y
O R D E R A N D B U I LD I N G S E C U R I T Y F O R
S TAT E S A N D I N D I V I D UA L S

Review Conference discussed issues such as developments
with respect to Ukraine, other conflicts in the OSCE region,
transnational threats and confidence-building measures.
The prevention of organized crime was one of the Swedish

To showcase the OSCE’s comprehensive concept of security,

Chairpersonship’s priorities and hence the topic of the civilian

the Chairpersonship introduced monthly topics, emphasizing

working session at the Annual Security Review Conference.

particular aspects of the comprehensive security concept and

The Alliance conference on human trafficking and the drugs

mainstreaming them across all dimensions. Monthly topics

conference further discussed concrete ways to combat

included confidence-building; gender equality; democracy;

specific aspects of organized crime. The counter-terrorism

freedom of expression; conflict prevention, conflict resolution

conference and the conference on cyber/ICT security further

and OSCE tools; and civil society.

advanced work on these topics.

The Chairpersonship put gender equality and Women, Peace

In the second dimension, Sweden dedicated the three

and Security high on the OSCE agenda, integrating priorities

Economic and Environmental Forum meetings to women’s

into the everyday work of the Organization, including through

economic empowerment, recognizing that women are

the work of field presences and Special Representatives. The

disproportionally exposed to economic vulnerabilities and
7

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

(Government Offices of Sweden/Kristian Pohl)

“During the year, I have visited some 20 participating

challenge the foundation on which the OSCE is built.

States and met with all OSCE field presences to support

By our consistent focus on our priorities, I am proud to

our priorities. I have seen first-hand the essential

have contributed to security in our region and to the

contribution that our organization makes to improve

work of coming Chairs.”

the lives of the people affected by conflict in our region.
“As Chair, we have worked hard to ensure respect for

Ann Linde

the commitments and accountability when they are

OSCE Chairperson-in-Office, Minister for

breached. Over the course of this year, we have seen

Foreign Affairs of Sweden

how violations of our commitments have continued to

that the security and stability of the OSCE region is closely

to mark ODIHR’s many achievements of the last three decades,

interlinked with equal participation in economic life.

consider current challenges and opportunities, and discuss the
Office’s role in continuing to promote democracy and human

During the year, significant progress was made on

rights in the future. As a concrete step, the Chairpersonship

climate and security. This issue was discussed at the first

launched a new smartphone application, HD Commitments,

thematic meeting of the Economic and Environmental

enabling searches among all OSCE commitments related to

Committee of 2021 and at the Bonn Conference. The

human rights, democracy and the rule of law.

Swedish Chairpersonship also commissioned the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) to produce a

The Chairperson-in-Office and the OSCE Representative on

policy brief with recommendations on how to advance the

Freedom of the Media hosted the Stockholm Conference on

role of the OSCE in the field of climate security. Participating

Media Freedom in the OSCE Region. The Chairpersonship

States were able to agree on new commitments on

also organized a virtual expert meeting on combating

strengthening co-operation to address the challenges caused

anti-Semitism in the OSCE region. Its recommendations

by climate change, with a landmark decision adopted at the

were presented at the Malmö International Forum on

Ministerial Council in Stockholm.

Holocaust Remembrance and Combating Antisemitism
by the Chairperson-in-Office’s Personal Representative

8

In the third dimension, the Chairpersonship underlined

on Combating Anti-Semitism. Furthermore, the first

democratic processes, civic space and participation as central

Supplementary Human Dimension Meeting was dedicated

to protecting and promoting respect for human rights and

to media freedom and gender equality. The Chairperson-

fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law.

in-Office also took part in the conference marking the

ODIHR’s 30th anniversary was celebrated in Warsaw, bringing

25th anniversary of the HCNM’s Hague Recommendations

together participating States, OSCE institutions and civil society

regarding the Education Rights of National Minorities.
O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

Regarding the Human Dimension Implementation Meeting,

contribution to conflict resolution. During her visits, the

which all participating States have committed to holding

Chairperson-in-Office also prioritized meeting with elected

annually, the Chairpersonship had to conclude with regret

representatives.

that consensus could not be reached despite long and
intensive negotiations, but underlined that this was without

Within the framework of the Chairpersonship’s ambition

prejudice for coming years.

to strengthen the OSCE’s conflict resolution efforts in the
long term, the Chairperson-in-Office hosted a meeting with

The Swedish Chairpersonship of the Advisory Committee on

her Special Representatives who focused on the protracted

Management and Finance focused on efforts to increase the

conflicts in the region. The Chairpersonship also worked

effectiveness and efficiency of the Organization and achieved

actively to include OSCE field missions and their perspectives

a number of concrete results. The Unified Budget for 2021

in all activities.

was adapted to the continued impact of COVID-19 on travel
and in-person meetings, which allowed a repurposing of

Developments with respect to Ukraine remained the

resources to finance imminent needs related to staff costs

most serious challenge to the European security order.

and inflation. At the same time, the Swedish Chairpersonship

The Chairpersonship placed a high degree of importance

regretted that the adoption of the Unified Budget was

on contributing to a peaceful resolution of the conflict

delayed by more than eight months, which resulted in

with full respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity

unprecedented financial and administrative consequences

and independence of Ukraine within its internationally

for the whole Organization.

recognized borders. In eastern Ukraine, civilians continued
to fall victim to the armed violence on the contact line and

E F F O R T S T O R E S O LV E CO N F LI C T S
T H RO U G H PR E V E N T I O N A N D
CO N F I D E N C E - B U I LD I N G

to face far-reaching restrictions, including on the right
to freedom of movement, limiting their access to basic
services. This issue was highlighted at a side event at the
Stockholm Ministerial Council, against the backdrop of
a thematic report on this issue from the OSCE Special

The OSCE’s role in resolving conflicts and avoiding escalation

Monitoring Mission to Ukraine (SMM).

is one of the Organization’s most important functions.
Throughout 2021, the Chairpersonship engaged in active

The SMM continued to play a crucial role in conflict

and intense diplomacy on crises and conflicts in the OSCE

management by monitoring the security situation and

region, including in Georgia, Moldova the Nagorno-Karabakh

facilitating maintenance of critical civilian infrastructure in

conflict context and developments with respect to Ukraine.

eastern Ukraine. Throughout the year, the Chairperson-in-

The Chairperson-in-Office visited all the participating States

Office expressed deep concern about the systematic and

directly affected by conflicts, meeting with political leaders

unacceptable impediments to freedom of movement that the

and civil society, including human rights defenders and

SMM faced in non-government-controlled areas of Ukraine.

women’s organizations, to support their work for democracy,
the rule of law and human rights. She also met with all

At a time of increased tensions over Ukraine, the Swedish

OSCE field missions in a show of support for their crucial

Chairpersonship explored all possible options in the

OSCE Chairperson-in-Office and Sweden’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, on an official visit to Ukraine, 20 January 2021. (OSCE/MFA Sweden)

9

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

OSCE Secretary General Helga Maria Schmid; OSCE Chairperson-in-Office and Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, and; Permanent
Representative of Sweden to the OSCE and Chair of the Permanent Council Ulrika Funered, opening the 2021 OSCE Annual Security Review Conference,
31 August 2021. (OSCE/Micky Kröll)

OSCE toolbox for conflict prevention. As Chair, Sweden

particular focus on security and humanitarian issues. The

guided the participating States through the process that

Swedish OSCE Chair highlighted the situation of conflict-

followed Ukraine’s activation of Chapter III, paragraph

affected populations, and also increased the focus on the

16.3 of the Vienna Document, whereby clarity on Russian

different ways conflict affects women and men. The Incident

troop movements in and around Ukraine was sought.

Prevention and Response Mechanism in Ergneti addressed

Moreover, the Chairpersonship appointed a new Special

responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, the closures of

Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-Office in Ukraine

crossing points, detention cases and so-called borderization

and in the Trilateral Contact Group (TCG), as well three

processes. The Chairpersonship, through its Special

new co-ordinators of the TCG working groups (thereby also

Representative, also explored ideas on further confidence-

improving the TCG’s gender balance).

building measures in the broader South Caucasus region.

The Chairpersonship underlined that effective and

With regard to the Transdniestrian conflict, the common goal

comprehensive monitoring of the Ukrainian–Russian state

of the OSCE remained attaining a comprehensive, peaceful

border remained essential to improving the security situation

and sustainable settlement based on the sovereignty and

and to finding a sustainable political solution to the conflict. It

territorial integrity of the Republic of Moldova within its

was with deep regret that the Chairpersonship saw the OSCE

internationally recognized borders with a special status for

Observer Mission at the Russian Checkpoints Gukovo and

Transdniestria that fully guarantees the human, political,

Donetsk discontinued on 30 September 2021, as consensus

economic and social rights of its population. The Chairperson-

on the extension of its mandate could not be achieved

in-Office’s visits to Moldova focused on identifying concrete

despite extensive consultations.

steps to further build trust and constructive dialogue between
the Sides to move the process forward together with the

The ceasefire following the Trilateral Statement of November

Chairperson-in-Office’s Special Representative. The need to

2020 in the aftermath of 44 days of armed escalation in and

keep Women, Peace and Security as well as gender equality

around Nagorno-Karabakh remained fragile. Incidents during

high on the agenda in this context was also emphasized.

the year demonstrated the need to address outstanding
issues. The Chairpersonship fully supported the efforts of

The Chairpersonship remained deeply concerned about

the Co-Chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group, including via the

developments in Belarus and welcomed the fact that the

active engagement of the Personal Representative of the

Moscow and Vienna mechanisms were activated before and

Chairperson-in-Office to resume substantive and sustained

during Sweden’s Chairpersonship. The Chairperson-in-Office

negotiations, as well as the personal engagement of the

called on Belarus to fully implement OSCE commitments

Chairperson-in-Office with the sides.

and principles as well as international law. She expressed
the OSCE’s readiness to support Belarus in this regard

10

Relating to Georgia, the OSCE, UN and EU Co-Chairs of the

and regretted that the offer by the previous and current

Geneva International Discussions continued mediation

Chairpersons-in-Office to support and facilitate dialogue in

efforts on the basis of the 2008 ceasefire agreement, with

Belarus was not yet accepted.
O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

OSCE foreign ministers and heads of delegations at the 28th OSCE Ministerial Council in Stockholm, 2 December 2021.
(Government Offices of Sweden / Ninni Andersson)

Decisions and declarations adopted at the 2021 OSCE Ministerial Council
Decision on strengthening co-operation to address the challenges caused by climate change
Decision on the OSCE Chairmanship in the year 2025
Ministerial statement on the negotiations on the Transdniestrian settlement process in the “5+2” format
Decision on the time and place of the next meeting of the OSCE Ministerial Council

In April, the Chairperson-in-Office travelled to Central Asia,

Albanian and the 2022 Polish Chairs. For more information

where demonstrating support to the OSCE field operations

on these activities, please see the chapter on Partnerships.

in the region was one of her objectives. She attached great
importance to the promotion of education, including among
young women, and was impressed by the achievements of

2 8 T H M I N I S T E R I A L CO U N C I L

the OSCE Academy in Bishkek. Accordingly, Sweden made

2–3 DECEMBER 2021, STOCKHOLM

a financial contribution to the Academy’s newly launched
extrabudgetary project. The Chairperson-in-Office also visited

The Stockholm Ministerial Council was held on 2–3

the Border Management Staff College in Dushanbe, and

December, gathering nearly 50 ministers – a record

commended this flagship OSCE institution.

number in recent years. For the first time, negotiations on
Ministerial Council deliverables were concluded in Vienna

The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan in mid-August and

before the meeting started in Stockholm, thus contributing

the unfolding humanitarian crisis in the country posed

to the efficiency of the Organization. In the same spirit, the

security and economic challenges to the OSCE region.

Stockholm Ministerial Council was organized in a new, shorter

At the Stockholm Ministerial Council, the Chairperson-

format that enabled a more politically focused meeting.

in-Office together with the Secretary General shared a

Besides important statements in the plenary, ministers could

food-for-thought paper on the OSCE’s potential response

engage in high-level political discussions on pertinent issues

to the implications of the situation in Afghanistan for the

during the dinner and lunch discussions, numerous bilaterals

OSCE region.

and side events. The Ministerial Council thus brought
participating States back to basics, fostering dialogue to

The Swedish Chairpersonship continued to promote ongoing

build trust in challenging times. The Ministerial Council also

dialogue and joint activities with the Asian and Mediterranean

delivered a landmark decision on climate change.

Partners for Co-operation with support from the 2020
11

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

T R I L AT E R A L CO N TAC T G RO U P

The Special Representative liaised continuously with the
participants in the Trilateral Contact Group discussions, with
the OSCE Chairpersonship and the OSCE participating States,
as well as with members of the Normandy Four group. He
also conducted a number of outreach activities, including in
the areas affected by the conflict.

AMBASSADOR MIKKO KINNUNEN
Special Representative of the Chairperson-in-Office in
Ukraine and in the Trilateral Contact
In 2021, the Trilateral Contact Group brought together
representatives from the OSCE, Ukraine and Russia as well
as, by agreement of its members, participants from certain

AMBASSADOR ANDRZEJ KASPRZYK

areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Facilitated by the

Personal Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-

Special Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-Office,

Office on the Conflict Dealt with by the OSCE Minsk

the Trilateral Contact Group was the only forum where the

Conference

conflict sides met regularly to discuss the implementation of
the Minsk agreements, as well as practical issues of critical

Budget 	 €1,179,700 (Unified Budget)

importance for the civilian population. Its agenda covered a

Staff	

wide range of topics in the political, security, socio-economic

17

and humanitarian fields.

www.osce.org/prcio

The Trilateral Contact Group and its working groups

Throughout the year, the Personal Representative and

met throughout the year in an online format. Despite

his team, with the engagement of the sides, explored

formal adherence to the July 2020 additional measures

opportunities for confidence-building measures. The Office

to strengthen the ceasefire agreement, the security

supported the Chairperson-in-Office and the Minsk Group

situation – as monitored by the OSCE Special Monitoring

Co-Chairs, providing regular reporting from the region,

Mission to Ukraine – continued to deteriorate throughout

including, when required, detailed information on specific

2021, with an increasing number of ceasefire violations

incidents or developments and assistance and input for

as well as the presence and use of weapons banned by

the Co-Chairs’ meetings and visits. The Office’s monitoring

the joint commitments. While the pandemic led to the

activities remained suspended.

further disconnection of the non-government-controlled
areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions from the rest of

In this changed environment, the Office has been charting

Ukraine, the Trilateral Contact Group and its working groups

a way forward together with the Co-Chairs, starting with a

maintained constant attention to enabling, for example, the

planning and co-ordination meeting in Kraków hosted by the

supply of water across the contact line. Particular attention

Personal Representative in January. Ambassador Kasprzyk

was also paid to environmental hazards near the contact

consulted widely with the Chairpersonship, the Conflict

line. Participants in the Political Working Group worked

Prevention Centre, the International Committee of the Red

throughout the year on the preparation of an action plan

Cross, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees

for implementation of the Minsk agreements, upon specific

and in particular the parties themselves, ascertaining both

tasking by the Trilateral Contact Group. In the Humanitarian

humanitarian needs and possibilities for confidence-building

Working Group, participants continued to discuss, among

measures aimed at lowering tensions. Thus far, a series of

others, issues concerning the opening of two new crossing

measures have been proposed, and with an additional eight

points in the Luhansk region. If realized, this would have

armoured vehicles donated by one participating State, the

facilitated human contacts across the contact line – including

Office is well placed to operationalize these plans.

contacts with family members and access to services,

12

pensions and education – with the aim of improving life for

Since May, much of the Office’s attention has been on the

the local population.

Armenian–Azerbaijani border, where a series of clashes

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

resulted in dozens of casualties on both sides and additional

T H E H I G H - L E V E L PL A N N I N G G RO U P

detentions, complicating an already fraught situation
regarding detainees, and threatening to undermine the
relative calm established with the 9 November 2020 Trilateral
Statement.
Upon request, the Personal Representative provided briefings
to or held consultations with a range of interlocutors in
2021, including the current and incoming Chairpersonsin-Office, the OSCE Secretary General, the Chairperson of
the OSCE Permanent Council, the Swedish OSCE Taskforce,
the EU Special Representative for the South Caucasus and
the Crisis in Georgia, and various UN and ICRC officials.
Additionally, often together with the Co-Chairs, he consulted
with high-level interlocutors at the US Department of State
and National Security Council, the Foreign Ministry of the
Russian Federation and various embassies and international

COLONEL CLAES NILSSON

organizations.

Head of the OSCE High-Level Planning Group

Both individually and together with the Co-Chairs, the

The High-Level Planning Group (HLPG), which is the only

Personal Representative held a series of meetings with the

military planning group in the OSCE, is mandated to make

sides at the foreign minister level – and once at the level of

recommendations to the Chairperson-in-Office on developing

heads of State – culminating in joint meetings in New York

a plan for the establishment, force structure requirements

in October and in Paris in November. The leaders of both

and operation of a multinational OSCE peacekeeping force in

countries have expressed willingness, in principle, to meet

the area of conflict dealt with by the OSCE Minsk Conference.

under the auspices of the Co-Chairs. Trilateral meetings at

Following the trilateral statements of 9 November 2020

the level of deputy prime minster have resumed, with the

and 11 January 2021, and the deployment of a Russian

parties discussing the opening of transport links, among

Peacekeeping Contingent, the HLPG initiated and conducted

other issues. They have acknowledged the need for border

a scenario-based conceptual analysis to assess the relevance

delimitation and demarcation as a necessary and important

of its planning options in this changed environment.

step forward. The Personal Representative, under the
guidance of the Chairperson-in-Office and together with the

As the nature of peacekeeping is constantly evolving,

Co-Chairs, continues his efforts to advance the process.

the HLPG has continued to engage with international
organizations and other actors, including relevant UN and
EU institutions, in order to learn from their expertise and to
exchange views on their respective planning procedures. The
HLPG also established contacts and conducted meetings with
primary actors and stakeholders, relevant institutions as well
as the OSCE Secretariat. The HLPG also conducted annual
briefings for the military advisers of the OSCE participating
States.
In 2021, the HLPG initiated and completed a Gender Action
Plan that is in line with the 2004 OSCE Action Plan for the
Promotion of Gender Equality. It also created a new Gender
Annex to its planning options. Both these documents have
been validated by the OSCE Secretariat’s Gender Issues
Programme, and the Gender Annex has also been validated
by the Nordic Centre for Gender in Military Operations. The
HLPG also engaged in preparations for the multinational
exercise Viking 22 organized by the Swedish Armed Forces.

13

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

S O U T H C AU C A S U S

This vital format continued to prevent escalation and
destabilization on the ground. The Co-Chairs continued to
focus on pursuing discussions on the non-use of force and
international security arrangements, and on improving
the situation of conflict-affected populations, including the
different ways conflict affects women and men.
Together with the European Union Monitoring Mission
in Georgia, Ambassador Söder also guaranteed more
frequent meetings of the Incident Prevention and Response
Mechanism (IPRM) in Ergneti, co-facilitating seven rounds
of IPRM talks over the course of the year to address
responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, closures of crossing
points, detention cases and the erection of obstacles
(“borderization”). The de-escalation of the security situation
in the Chorchana-Tsnelisi area and the resolution of

AMBASSADOR ANNIKA SÖDER

outstanding missing persons cases were also a major focus of

Special Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-

the Chairpersonship.

Office for the South Caucasus
Ambassador Söder also explored further confidence-building
In 2021, the OSCE Special Representative of the Chairperson-

and co-operation measures in the broader region, conducting

in-Office for the South Caucasus, Ambassador Annika Söder,

outreach to Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia to explore the

and her fellow Co-Chairs from the UN and the European

OSCE’s potential support for the development of a positive,

Union restored regular meetings of the Geneva International

peaceful vision for the region’s future.

Discussions, with pandemic mitigation measures in place.

Participants at a high level retreat for the Special Representatives and Personal Representatives dealing with conflict in the OSCE region convened in
Vienna by the Chairperson-in-Office on 20-21 October 2021. (Swedish OSCE Chair)

14

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

T R A N S D N I E S T R I A N CO N FL I C T

CO M B AT I N G CO R RU P T I O N

AMBASSADOR THOMAS MAYR-HARTING

PROFESSOR ANITA RAMASASTRY

Special Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-

Special Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-

Office for the Transdniestrian Settlement Process

Office on Combating Corruption

In 2021, the Swedish Chairpersonship worked in close co-

As Special Representative of the Chairperson-in-Office on

operation with the OSCE Mission to Moldova to promote

Combating Corruption, Professor Ramasastry focused on

full implementation of the Berlin Plus “package of eight”

addressing the impact of corruption across all three OSCE

and to facilitate discussions on further confidence-building

dimensions, examining how key OSCE commitments across

measures. The Chairperson-in-Office paid two visits to the

these dimensions were critical to preventing corruption and

Republic of Moldova, in February and October. Special

fostering sound, sustainable and peaceful economies.

Representative Thomas Mayr-Harting was there five times,
including for the joint visit by all observers and mediators

The Special Representative participated in a cross-

to Chisinau and Tiraspol in June. The year saw an increased

dimensional discussion of corruption and good governance

frequency of meetings between the Sides, as well as

jointly hosted by the chairs of the three OSCE committees

interaction in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic,

in July. At the Economic and Environmental Dimension

including with regard to the provision of vaccines and other

Implementation Meeting in October, she focused on the

assistance by the Moldovan authorities to Transdniestria.

importance of transparency and good governance for

But it also saw additional challenges with regard to vehicles

preventing corruption and fostering economic development.

from Transdniestria participating in international road

She worked with the Gender Issues Programme to highlight

traffic, which were the subject of intense discussions

corruption’s disparate impact on women and girls and the

between the Sides at various levels. Throughout the year,

need to address gender as part of strong anti-corruption

the Chairpersonship stressed the need to take into account

strategies.

the specific situation of women, as well as the importance
of fully involving them in the settlement process. Despite

The Special Representative worked closely with ODIHR on

repeated efforts by the Chairpersonship, it proved impossible

numerous events. She participated in a Supplementary

to organize a conference in the 5+2 format in 2021. At the

Human Dimension Meeting focusing on the importance

Stockholm Ministerial Council in December, the 57 OSCE

of ensuring democratic participation in lawmaking, where

participating States adopted a ministerial statement on the

she connected the importance of strong transparency

negotiations on the Transdniestrian Settlement Process

and conflict-of-interest rules in parliaments to increased

in the 5+2 format, which welcomed the commitment of all

confidence in government institutions.

concerned to hold a results-oriented meeting in this format
as soon as possible.

The Special Representative conducted an expert workshop on
responsible recovery and addressing the threat of corruption
across all three OSCE dimensions. A round table on this topic
with staff from the OSCE Secretariat and field presences
on lessons learned and good practices by participating
States resulted in a report of preliminary findings on key
OSCE measures and good practices essential to addressing
future challenges and promoting responsible recovery from
economic recession and the global pandemic.

15

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

The Special Representative emphasized the need for OSCE

human rights and security, with a special focus on improving

participating States to fulfil their existing commitments

the response of OSCE participating States to preventing

to prevent corruption, including their commitments to

violence against women, supporting women’s organizations

transparent and open public procurement, open data and

and diverse women activists focusing on this issue.

digitalization for government services, strong conflictof-interest rules for parliaments, media freedom and

The Special Representative encouraged participating States

transnational co-operation to tackle organized crime

to work harder to implement the Women, Peace and Security

networks.

agenda and to contribute to the work of the Advisory Group
on Women, Peace and Security created by the Swedish Chair.

These commitments are key to preventing and addressing

She addressed this issue at a number of regional and national

major challenges such as the COVID-19 pandemic, since many

events, where she advocated for increased investments in

States have relaxed or abandoned anti-corruption safeguards

women’s capacities to participate in peace mediation and

in public institutions, including healthcare systems. They will

negotiation processes.

also be critical to tackling corruption linked to climate change,
particularly as States transition to green economies.

The Special Representative participated in the launch of the
OSCE Secretary General’s networking platform for women
leaders, including peacebuilders and mediators. During a

PRO M O T I N G G E N D E R E QUA LI T Y

visit to Kyiv, she discussed the challenges facing women
in conflict-affected regions with the Ukrainian authorities,
and stressed the importance of engaging civil society
organizations (CSOs) in the implementation of the National
Action Plan for implementing UN Security Council Resolution
1325. She also addressed the need for CSO participation
in developing Kazakhstan’s National Action Plan on the
platform of the Civil Forum of Kazakhstan facilitated by
the OSCE Programme Office in Nur-Sultan. As a speaker at
the World Forum for Democracy, she highlighted the need
for more gender-sensitive strategies and interventions to
respond to the environmental and humanitarian crises
caused by climate change.

LILIANA PALIHOVICI
Special Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-inOffice on Gender
In 2021, the Special Representative of the Chairperson-inOffice on Gender promoted greater understanding among
OSCE participating States of the international security
implications arising from gender inequalities and women’s
lack of participation, and advocated for increasing women’s
participation in peace processes. In her March address to
the Permanent Council, the Special Representative called on
all OSCE participating States to speed up implementation
of their gender equality commitments, and urged them
to improve national policies to tackle all forms of violence
against women and to ratify and implement the Istanbul
Convention. In partnership with the OSCE’s Gender Issues
Programme, she participated in regional expert consultations
to discuss the challenges countries face in combating
violence against women. She partnered with the Special
Representative and Co-ordinator for Combating Trafficking
in Human Beings, emphasizing the trafficking risks for
both women and men and how innovative approaches can
diminish them, at the launch event for a paper on applying
gender-sensitive approaches in combating trafficking in
human beings. She also partnered with ODIHR to promote
16

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

T O LE R A N C E A N D N O N - D I S C R I M I N AT I O N

RABBI ANDREW BAKER

AMBASSADOR MEHMET PAÇACI

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR

Personal Representative of the OSCE

Personal Representative of the OSCE

REGINA POLAK

Chairperson-in-Office on Combating

Chairperson-in-Office on Combating

Personal Representative of the

Anti-Semitism

Intolerance and Discrimination

OSCE Chairperson-in-Office on

against Muslims

Combating Racism, Xenophobia
and Discrimination, also focusing
on Intolerance and Discrimination
against Christians and Members of
Other Religions

Promoting tolerance and non-discrimination was a priority of

All three Personal Representatives pointed to the negative

the Swedish OSCE Chairpersonship. Following OSCE tradition,

impact on human rights, including the rights of ethnic

in February the Chair convened a high-level expert meeting

and religious minorities, of the COVID-19 pandemic and

to examine the complex problems of anti-Semitism and to

measures to contain its spread in their joint messages on

offer strategies to address them, which all three Personal

the International Day Commemorating Victims of Acts of

Representatives addressed. At both this event and alongside

Violence Based on Religion or Belief, the International Day

the Chairperson-in-Office at the Malmö Forum, Rabbi Baker

for Tolerance and the International Day of Human Rights.

shared a number of strategies and best practices, including

They called for robust hate-crime legislation, support for

the value and importance of adopting the International

victims, and accountability and punishment for perpetrators.

Holocaust Remembrance Alliance’s working definition of

They also urged governments to work together with civil

anti-Semitism, practical tools to address Jewish community

society, especially with religious leaders and communities,

security and the importance of interfaith dialogue and co-

as well as women and young people, to fight intolerance and

operation.

strengthen resilience in a time of crisis.

In his statements at the Antalya Diplomacy Forum and at

The three Personal Representatives resumed in-person

other events, Ambassador Paçacı highlighted growing hostility

country visits in 2021, travelling together to Finland and

and discrimination towards Muslims and those perceived to

Uzbekistan for meetings with religious, civil society and

be Muslims, and expressed concern that Muslims were being

community leaders as well as government officials.

stigmatized by racist political discourse that normalized antiMuslim hatred, which was manifested in legislation that could

Throughout the year, the three Personal Representatives

lead to a narrowing of fundamental rights, including freedom

participated in a number of other OSCE conferences

of association and freedom of religion or belief.

and discussions, including the Stockholm Conference on
Media Freedom in the OSCE Region organized by the OSCE

In her interventions at OSCE meetings and other events,

Representative on Freedom of the Media, a retreat organized

Professor Polak stressed the necessity of strengthening the

by the Swedish Chair and an informal meeting with the OSCE

right to freedom of religion or belief, putting a strong focus

Human Dimension Committee to discuss tolerance and non-

on the importance of combating hate crimes, in particular

discrimination.

against religious and ethnic minorities, people perceived to
be of Asian background, Roma and Sinti, and women.

17

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

YO U T H A N D S E C U R I T Y

C H I LD R E N A N D S E C U R I T Y

ROSALINE MARBINAH

AMBASSADOR RITA IZSÁK-NDIAYE

Special Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-

Personal Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-

Office on Youth and Security

Office on Children and Security

The OSCE Special Representative on Youth and Security

In 2021, the Swedish Chair established the mandate of the

advised the Swedish Chairpersonship throughout the year

Chairperson-in-Office’s Personal Representative on Children

on issues related to youth and security, putting special

and Security to call stronger attention to the situation

emphasis on the involvement of the youth movement and

and rights of children in the OSCE region. The Personal

the engagement of youth in democratic processes. 

Representative conducted initial research on the status

 

of children’s rights issues to assess the current level of

She participated in several events to raise awareness of these

awareness and ongoing activities in this field. She reviewed

issues, including an event in Strasbourg organized by the

all relevant existing materials and documents and conducted

Swedish Chairpersonship in April on youth participation in

interviews with OSCE staff members, field missions and

legislative and policy processes. The Special Representative

representatives of the institutions. Ambassador Izsák-Ndiaye

also met with the Group of Friends of Youth and Security,

also prepared a survey on children and security and invited

highlighting, among other things, the importance of co-

all staff members to contribute in order maximize the

ordination among OSCE structures regarding youth and

outreach, feedback and recommendations formulated by

security.

OSCE colleagues.

 
The representative also communicated on these issues to

The Personal Representative participated in and contributed

a wider public, including via a post on the OSCE blog on

to several online and in-person seminars and meetings,

International Youth Day in which she pointed out how youth

including of the Human Dimension Committee and a round-

all around the world contribute to comprehensive security

table discussion organized by the Contact Point for Roma

by standing up for democracy, human rights, fundamental

and Sinti Issues. She spoke at ODIHR’s 30th-anniversary

freedoms and the rule of law: “They are organized,

conference in Warsaw in a panel discussion on democracy as

courageous and peace-builders. Through their work, they

the only legitimate system of government in the OSCE region.

expand the democratic space in the OSCE region.”

She emphasized the importance of inclusive democracies
and of ensuring children’s participation in decision-making

She also put forward a number of suggestions on how

processes.

to advance the youth, peace and security agenda within
the OSCE, ranging from bigger budget allocations and

During her tenure, Ambassador Izsák-Ndiaye emphasized

more Ministerial Council decisions to developing a cross-

the need for OSCE structures and participating States to pay

dimensional youth action plan and putting together a

dedicated attention to the issue of children and security and

permanent consultative expert panel of youth organizations

to increase regular exchanges and activities in this regard to

to comment on proposals and advise on steps forward

better protect children and their interests.

related to youth, peace and security.

18

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

A S S I S TA N C E W I T H B I L AT E R A L
AG R E E M E N T S

LE G A L F R A M E WO R K

LIEUTENANT COLONEL HELMUT NAPIONTEK

AMBASSADOR HELMUT TICHY

OSCE Representative to the Latvian-Russian Joint

Chairperson of the Informal Working Group on

Commission on Military Pensioners

Strengthening the Legal Framework of the OSCE
 

The Representative continued to assist with the

The Informal Working Group focuses on finding a solution

implementation of the 1994 bilateral agreement between

that would grant international legal personality to the OSCE,

the governments of Latvia and the Russian Federation on

in accordance with one of four options that emerged during

social guarantees for military pensioners from the Russian

discussions in previous years. The Swedish Chairpersonship

Federation and their families residing in Latvia. Some

convened two meetings of the Informal Working Group in

5,464 people currently fall under the special provisions of

May and October 2021, which were chaired by Ambassador

the agreement; this represents a decrease of 530 people

Helmut Tichy. Both meetings were held in a blended format

compared with 2020.

due to COVID-19. The four options were discussed, and the
Secretariat also provided delegations with valuable updates

No certified COVID-19 cases among the military pensioners

on the operational consequences of the lack of a clear

were brought to the attention of the Representative in 2021.

legal status for the OSCE. The October meeting featured a
presentation of a recent paper on operational challenges

As a stable trend since 2008, no individual complaints by

prepared by the OSCE Conflict Prevention Centre, “A Peaceful

military pensioners were submitted in 2021. In essence,

Presence: The First Five Years of the OSCE Special Monitoring

there are currently no new fundamental issues concerning

Mission to Ukraine”.

the work of the Representative. The 2021 report to the
Permanent Council concluded that, in the future, the
Representative’s role should exist on a standby basis,
operating only if requested by either of the parties or by an
individual military pensioner.

19

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

PERMANENT COUNCIL
The Permanent Council is the OSCE’s principal body for regular political dialogue and
decision-making among representatives of the OSCE participating States. It meets
weekly in Vienna.

Delegates at the Permanent Council. (OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

20

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Permanent Council
www.osce.org/permanent-council

The weekly meetings of the Permanent Council throughout
the 2021 Swedish Chairpersonship were chaired by Sweden’s
Permanent Representative to the OSCE, Ambassador Ulrika
Funered. Despite two lockdowns due to the COVID-19
pandemic that posed serious challenges to the continuity
of the Organization’s work, the Swedish Chairpersonship,
building on the working methodology put in place by
the Albanian Chairmanship in 2020, managed to hold 52
sessions of the Permanent Council, including 12 special
sessions.
Between 25 May and 18 November, sessions were held in
a blended format, with preventive measures such as the
wearing of masks, social distancing and requiring proof
of low epidemiological risk in place. Throughout the year,
delegates could participate either in person or remotely. This

(OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

ensured the smooth running of Permanent Council meetings
and equal access for all.

“Sweden took on the Chairpersonship of the OSCE
in a challenging time with the aim to go back to

The weekly meetings of the Permanent Council serve as

basics and adhere to our common commitments by

the main platform for dialogue, debates, consultations,

building trust for our common security. I am proud

the exchange of ideas and decision-making not only

that we have contributed to security in our region

on recurring issues on the OSCE agenda but also in

through steadfast focus on our priorities and hope

matters related to the Chairpersonship’s priorities and to

that our work has laid a good foundation for coming

unpredicted developments in the OSCE area. Throughout

Chairs. I would like to thank all participating States

the year, Ambassador Funered welcomed distinguished

for their support and co-operation for strengthening

guest speakers to the Permanent Council, including foreign

our common security and the OSCE.”

ministers and deputy ministers from the participating
States and high-level representatives from international

Ambassador Ulrika Funered

organizations.

Chairperson of the OSCE Permanent Council,
Permanent Representative of Sweden to the

Whether addressing the Permanent Council in person at

Organization for Security and Co-operation in

the Hofburg, in a blended format or entirely online, guest

Europe

speakers highlighted issues of special relevance to the
Chairpersonship, such as gender equality and the Women,
Peace and Security agenda; monitoring the situation in and
around Ukraine; defending the European security order;
upholding the OSCE concept of comprehensive security; the
full enjoyment of human rights; democracy; the role of civil
society; rule of law; freedom of expression, including media
freedom; as well as economic and environmental security.

CHAIRPERSONS OF THE THREE COMMITTEES
APPOINTED BY THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE
PERMANENT COUNCIL

The Special Representative of the Chairperson-in-Office in
Ukraine and in the Trilateral Contact Group, Ambassador

Ambassador Neil Bush, United Kingdom: Chairperson

Heidi Grau, and her successor, Ambassador Mikko Kinnunen,

of the Security Committee

and the Chief Monitor of the Special Monitoring Mission
to Ukraine, Ambassador Yaşar Halit Çevik, addressed

Ambassador Florian Raunig, Austria: Chairperson of

the Permanent Council four times regarding the crisis in

the Economic and Environmental Committee

and around Ukraine. The Chairperson also called special
meetings – for example, to welcome the Minister for Foreign

Ambassador Anne-Kirsti Karlsen, Norway:

Affairs of Azerbaijan, to facilitate the decision-making

Chairperson of the Human Dimension Committee

process on the 2021 Unified Budget and on holding the
21

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Annual Security Review Conference, as well as to ensure the
to Ukraine.

High-level speakers at
the Permanent Council in 2021

The meetings of the Permanent Council provided an

14 January: 	

extension of the mandate of the Special Monitoring Mission

Ann Linde, 2021 OSCE Chairperson-

opportunity to foster close, mutually beneficial co-operation

in-Office, Minister for Foreign Affairs

with other international organizations active in the OSCE area

of Sweden

through the participation of high-level representatives such
as the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, the Deputy

21 January: 	

Lord Peter Bowness, President of
the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly

Executive Director of UN Women and the President of the
International Committee of the Red Cross.
28 January:	

Michaela Küchler, Chair of
the International Holocaust
Remembrance Alliance

CHAIRPERSONS OF THE INFORMAL
WORKING GROUPS APPOINTED BY THE
CHAIRPERSON OF THE PERMANENT
COUNCIL

15 April: 	

Lasha Darsalia, Deputy Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Georgia

20 May: 	

Åsa Regnér, Deputy Executive
Director of UN Women

Ambassador Károly Dán, Hungary: Chairperson of the
Informal Working Group established by PC Decision No.

25 May:	

1039 on Development of Confidence-Building Measures

Jeygyn Bayramov, Minister of
Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan

to Reduce the Risks of Conflict Stemming from the Use
of Information and Communication Technologies

10 June: 	

Marija Pejčinović Burić, Secretary
General of the Council of Europe

Ambassador Cristóbal Valdés y Valentin-Gamazo,
Spain: Chairperson of the Informal Working Group

15 July:	

on the Structured Dialogue on the current and future

Zbigniew Rau, Minister of Foreign
Affairs of Poland

challenges and risks to security in the OSCE area
pursuant to Ministerial Council Declaration

16 September: 	

No. 4 of 2016
Ambassador Helmut Tichy, Austria: Special Adviser
to the OSCE Chairperson-in-Office on Strengthening the

Margareta Cederfelt, President of
the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly

30 September: 	

Ruslan Kazakbaev, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Kyrgyzstan

Legal Framework of the OSCE and Chairperson of the
Open-Ended Informal Working Group on Strengthening
the Legal Framework of the OSCE
Ambassador Ketevan Tsikhelashvili, Georgia:
Chairperson of the Informal Working Group on Scales
of Contributions
Ambassador Siniša Bencun, Bosnia and
Herzegovina: Chairperson of the Informal Working
Group on civil society participation at OSCE meetings

22

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

FORUM FOR SECURITY
CO-OPERATION
The Forum for Security Co-operation (FSC) is the OSCE’s key decision-making body on
politico-military aspects of security. Its participants meet weekly in Vienna to discuss
issues such as arms control and confidence- and security-building measures. The
Forum Chairmanship rotates among the OSCE participating States, with each state
chairing the FSC for four months. In 2021, the FSC was chaired by the United States of
America, Armenia and Austria.

Forum for Security Co-operation, 19 May 2021. (OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

23

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

Forum for Security
Co-operation
www.osce.org/forum-for-security-cooperation

In 2021, the Forum for Security Co-operation continued

organized by the three FSC Chairs. Several initiatives

to demonstrate its ability to conduct its work despite the

undertaken by participating States led to the adoption of six

challenging circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.

decisions designed to support the implementation of existing

With the invaluable support of the FSC Support Unit of

commitments.

the Conflict Prevention Centre, all scheduled FSC plenary,
working group and related meetings were conducted either

The US, Armenian and Austrian FSC Chairs dedicated security

in a blended format or remotely via teleconference. While

dialogues to arms control and confidence- and security-

recalling politico-military commitments and their relevance

building measures (CSBMs), covering the following topics:

in times of crisis, the FSC Chairs continuously highlighted the

modernization of the Vienna Document; confidence-building

importance of their implementation, and of co-operation

amid strategic ambiguity; challenges of new-generation

among participating States. To that end, participating States

warfare; arms control and CSBMs; transparency in military

were encouraged to resume verification activities under the

exercises and activities; the OSCE Framework for Arms

Vienna Document 2011 as a means of fostering confidence

Control, risks and challenges to security and the future of

and security.

conventional arms control. The Austrian FSC Chair held
a special FSC meeting on the reissuance of the Vienna

In the course of the year, the strategic discussions during

Document (paragraph 152) in October. In addition, the

the security dialogues highlighted the FSC’s importance as a

31st Annual Implementation Assessment Meeting was

platform for dialogue addressing security issues of common

held in March while the United States was FSC Chair. Led

interest and concern. The situation in and around Ukraine

by Mongolia and Montenegro, this meeting provided an

continued to be a dominant topic of discussion in the Forum.

opportunity for delegations to discuss issues related to the

In April 2021, the Vienna Document 2011 mechanism for

implementation of agreed CSBMs.

consultation and co-operation as regards unusual military
activities was invoked and was followed by a special joint

The ninth High-Level Military Doctrine Seminar took place

meeting of the FSC and the PC to assess security concerns.

online in February under the FSC Chairpersonship of the
United States. Held every five years in accordance with the

A variety of other active discussions on a broad range of

Vienna Document 2011, this event provided an important

topics were held during a total of 20 security dialogues

opportunity for high-level military personnel to meet,

US FSC Chairperson Courtney Austrian, Chargé of the US Mission to the OSCE. (OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

24

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

exchange strategic assessments on doctrine and discuss

October visit to Sweden on the Code of Conduct focused on

trends in the first dimension. The Austrian FSC Chair

actions taken within the Swedish Armed Forces to safeguard

dedicated a security dialogue to military-to-military contacts

the full and equal participation of women in the armed

on doctrines and promoted the idea of further exchanges

forces. In addition, the tenth Annual Discussion on the

between sessions of the High-Level Military Doctrine Seminar.

Implementation of the Code of Conduct on Politico-Military
Aspects of Security in June and a regional seminar hosted by

Four security dialogues and many informal meetings were

Albania on the OSCE’s Code in May were held online while

devoted to small arms and light weapons (SALW) and

Armenia was FSC Chair.

stockpiles of conventional ammunition (SCA). The security
dialogues dealt with man-portable air defence systems

Moreover, a security dialogue on United Nations Security

and explosive hazards in Central Asia (US Chairmanship),

Council Resolution 1540 was held under the aegis of the

the OSCE practical assistance mechanism (Armenian

Armenian FSC Chair.

Chairmanship) and ongoing initiatives in the field of SALW
and SCA (Austrian Chairmanship). The latter included a

The FSC Chairs devoted one security dialogue and one joint

demonstration of practical aspects of implementation of the

FSC–Permanent Council meeting to United Nations Security

assistance mechanism. Additionally, throughout the year, the

Council Resolution 1325 and another security dialogue

comprehensive review and update of the OSCE’s Handbook

to gender equality. Moreover, the Austrian FSC Chair

of Best Practices on Small Arms and Light Weapons and the

mainstreamed gender issues in all of its security dialogues.

OSCE Handbook of Best Practices on Conventional Ammunition
continued, including the adoption of an updated “Best Practice

The FSC also contributed to the 2021 Annual Security Review

Guide on National Procedures for the Destruction of Small

Conference within its mandate, providing inputs to relevant

Arms and Light Weapons” in June. The OSCE meeting to review

sessions and focusing on politico-military elements.

the implementation of OSCE assistance projects in the field of
SALW and SCA was held by the Austrian Chair in October.

All three FSC Chairs co-operated closely with the Swedish
OSCE Chair and the Permanent Council on cross-dimensional

Two security dialogues were held with a view to promoting

issues of relevance to both bodies. Three joint meetings of

regional stability and comprehensive and co-operative

the FSC and the Permanent Council were held on the topics

security. The US FSC Chair convened a security dialogue on

of UNSCR 1325, countering terrorism and the Structured

NATO’s enhanced forward presence. The Armenian FSC Chair

Dialogue.

held a security dialogue on regional security arrangements, in
particular the Collective Security Treaty Organization.

The FSC continued to serve as an important platform for
dialogue and decisions while at the same time providing

To facilitate implementation of the Code of Conduct on

participating States with a forum to discuss matters related

Politico-Military Aspects of Security, the Armenian FSC Chair

to politico-military issues. Despite COVID-19, the FSC proved

held security dialogues on compliance with international

successful in taking measures to adapt to the current

humanitarian law. The Austrian FSC Chair devoted a security

situation and in keeping up with its regular work under the

dialogue to the integration of women in armed forces. An

challenging circumstances.

Armenian FSC Chairperson Armen Papikyan, Permanent Representative

Austrian FSC Chairperson Florian Raunig, Permanent Representative of

of Armenia to the OSCE. (OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

Austria to the OSCE. (OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

25

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

OSCE PARLIAMENTARY
ASSEMBLY
Bringing together 323 parliamentarians from across the OSCE region, the Parliamentary
Assembly provides a platform to engage in dialogue, conduct diplomacy, observe
elections and promote governments’ compliance with OSCE commitments. In 2021,
the Assembly focused its efforts on reaffirming the common purpose of the OSCE and
increasing its political support.

OSCE Winter Meeting, Vienna and online, 25 February 2021. (OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

26

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

OSCE Parliamentary Assembly
Secretary General: Roberto Montella

OSCE Parliamentary Assembly | Facebook
OSCE PA (@oscepa) | Twitter

Budget 	

€3,643,000

OSCE Parliamentary Assembly (@osce_pa) | Instagram

Staff 	

38 (including 9 research assistants and

Parliamentary Assembly: Overview | LinkedIn

6 junior political officers)

OSCE Parliamentary Assembly | YouTube

www.oscepa.org

T OWA R D H E L S I N K I + 5 0
At the end of 2020, the Parliamentary Assembly (PA) issued
a Call for Action signed by former Chairpersons-in-Office,
OSCE PA Presidents, Secretaries General and heads of other
institutions. In 2021, a series of web-based roundtable
events were held to explore how to enhance the OSCE’s
effectiveness and promote genuine political dialogue in view
of the upcoming 50th anniversary of the Helsinki Final Act.
Co-ordinated by former OSCE Secretary General and High
Commissioner on National Minorities Lamberto Zannier,
the round tables focused on themes such as building
accountability and transparency in the OSCE’s human
dimension of security, enhancing the role of women in

(OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

peace and security, involving youth in decision-making and
ensuring that the OSCE is able to fully utilize all of its tools

“We need to keep discussions about international

and mechanisms in order to address challenges and crises

challenges on our domestic agendas. We need

facing the region.

to highlight the work of the OSCE in our national
debates. And we need to regularly question our

H Y B R I D PA R LI A M E N TA RY D I PLO M AC Y

governments on the implementation of their
international commitments.”

The OSCE PA continued to work throughout 2021 in a hybrid

Margareta Cederfelt

format due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with a remote

OSCE Parliamentary Assembly President

session convened in the summer to elect Assembly officers
and hold debates. After a year of online meetings, OSCE
parliamentarians began to resume in-person diplomatic
visits, with the PA President leading high-level delegations to

parliamentarians took part in a debate on current security

Tajikistan, Turkey and Uzbekistan. OSCE PA members also

challenges stemming from Afghanistan.

actively engaged with counterparts within and outside of
the OSCE on issues such as corruption, terrorism, human

The OSCE PA worked closely with the OSCE Special

trafficking and climate change.

Representative and Co-ordinator for Combating Trafficking
in Human Beings on the issue of preventing trafficking of

Following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, OSCE PA

migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). A series of online

President Margareta Cederfelt (Sweden) convened an online

meetings with BiH officials in March was followed by an in-

meeting in August with the heads of OSCE PA delegations

person visit in July, with a focus on support for victims and

and representatives of the OSCE Conflict Prevention Centre

assistance for local authorities in combating human trafficking.

and OSCE field offices in the region to discuss the situation.
Afghanistan’s humanitarian crisis was the focus of a virtual

The PA actively contributed to the pre-COP26 Parliamentary

meeting of the OSCE PA’s Ad Hoc Committee on Migration in

Meeting in Rome, and issued a Parliamentary Plea for

September, featuring participation by the Norwegian Refugee

Resolute Climate Action in conjunction with the climate

Council and the International Organization for Migration.

summit in Glasgow as a strong call from PA leaders for drastic

At the Parliamentary Assembly’s Autumn Meeting, over 30

reductions of greenhouse gas emissions, bolder adaptation
27

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

CONTRIBUTING POLITICAL EXPERIENCE TO
OSCE ELECTION OBSERVATION
OSCE PA election observers contributed their
political experience, judgement and visibility to this
essential OSCE endeavour while working closely
with ODIHR and other international partners. In
2021, more than 450 OSCE PA observers deployed
for elections in Albania, Armenia, Bulgaria,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova and Uzbekistan.

OSCE PA Head of Delegation Farah Karimi and OSCE Special Co-ordinator
Peter Juel-Jensen speaking to a poll worker on election day at a polling
station in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, 28 November 2021. (OSCE PA/Nat Parry)

MEETINGS

international partners, the OSCE PA’s Ad Hoc Committee on
Countering Terrorism co-organized the third Parliamentary
Conference on Countering Terrorism and Violent Extremism.

Winter Meeting: Vienna/Online, 24–26 February

The event included debates on the latest terrorism trends
during the pandemic and the need to prevent radicalization

Remote Session: Vienna/Online, 30 June to 6 July

online and in places of detention.

Autumn Meeting: Online, 3–4 November

Addressing the OSCE PA’s Mediterranean Forum in
November, Special Representative on Mediterranean Affairs
and OSCE PA Vice-President Pascal Allizard (France) noted

strategies, immediate mobilization of funds and closer

that the COVID-19 pandemic had exacerbated tensions

collaboration across the board.

and crises in the region, highlighting the need for collective
responses at both the governmental and parliamentary

Together with the OSCE Transnational Threats Department,

levels.

the PA organized the first-ever regional policy dialogue with
legislators from South-Eastern Europe on the challenges

Webinars throughout the year focused on issues such as

posed by the return and repatriation of foreign terrorist

promoting predictability in military affairs, universal health

fighters and their families. Over 30 MPs from the region took

care as a human right, pollution and public health, gender-

part in the event, exchanging views and lessons learned

based violence and humanitarian impacts of conflicts.

on this critical topic with leading experts. Working with

OSCE Special Co-ordinator Reinhold Lopatka and Head of OSCE PA Delegation Daniela De Ridder at a polling station in Tashkent, Uzbekistan,
24 October 2021. (OSCE PA/Anna Di Domenico)

28

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

FIELD OPERATIONS
The OSCE maintains a network of field operations in Eastern Europe, South-Eastern
Europe and Central Asia. Field operations assist host countries in putting their OSCE
commitments into practice and foster local capacities through specific projects that
respond to their needs. Activities vary with the context of the host country and are
governed by the mandate of each field operation. Field operations enable the OSCE
to manage crises and to play a critical post-conflict role, helping to restore trust among
affected communities. Several field operations contribute to early warning and conflict
prevention, and some also monitor and report on developments on the ground.

Luhansk Monitoring Team visiting a school in Zolote. (OSCE/Kristina Babic)

29

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Special Monitoring
Mission to Ukraine
Chief Monitor: Ambassador Yaşar Halit Çevik
Budget	

€108.7 million for the mandate period from
1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022 (€91.3 million
from assessed contributions and €17.4
million from extrabudgetary contributions).
Total expenditure for mandate 2021/2022 as
of 31 December 2021 was €74.7 million,
expenditure.

OSCE SMM – Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine |
Facebook

1,291 (814 international, 477 national),

OSCE SMM (@oscesmm) | Instagram

including 622 monitoring officers across 

OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine | YouTube

ten teams as of 31 December 2021.

OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine | Flickr

including €5.9 million extrabudgetary actual

Staff	

OSCE SMM Ukraine (@OSCE_SMM) | Twitter

www.osce.org/special-monitoring-mission-to-ukraine

The OSCE Special Monitoring Mission (SMM) to Ukraine is a civilian mission that was deployed in
March 2014. Operating 24/7, the Mission is mandated to monitor, establish facts, gather information
and report on the security situation throughout Ukraine with the aim of reducing tensions and
fostering peace, stability and security. It also monitors and supports respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms, including the rights of persons belonging to national minorities, and it
facilitates dialogue on the ground.

MONITORING IN EASTERN UKR AINE

Mission. Throughout the year, the SMM observed that
the number and severity of ceasefire violations steadily

The Special Monitoring Mission observed a significant

increased. By November, the number of ceasefıre violations

change in the environment in which it operates in eastern

exceeded those recorded before the 22 July 2020 Measures

Ukraine, which was marked throughout 2021 by a steady

to strengthen the ceasefire agreement. The number of

degradation of the ceasefire as well as an increase in

observations by the SMM of heavy weapons proscribed by

restrictions on freedom of movement experienced by the

the Minsk agreements deployed to the contact line also

SMM monitoring officers preparing to launch a UAV near Hnutove, Donetsk region. (OSCE/Germain Groll) 

30

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Donetsk Monitoring Team on patrol in Starohnativka. (OSCE/Germain Groll)

grew, as did their reported use in ceasefire violations. Pilot

facilities such as water, gas and electricity networks benefiting

disengagement areas – established to designate places along

civilians on both sides of the contact line.

the contact line free of weapons and personnel – themselves
became hotspots, as the SMM observed and reported the

The SMM continued to monitor the impact of crossing

sides regularly firing in or near these areas.

restrictions and the partial closure of the contact line to
civilians. Since June 2020, civilians were able to cross the

Against this backdrop, the Mission continued to face a growing

contact line only at two of the five operational crossing points:

and acute number of restrictions on freedom of movement

near Stanytsia Luhanska on a daily basis, and near Novotroitske

for both its ground patrols and its unmanned aerial vehicles

twice a week, as the corresponding checkpoint of the armed

(UAVs). Ground patrols continued to experience restrictions

formations near Olenivka was open only on Mondays and

mostly in non-government-controlled areas, particularly in

Fridays. All other checkpoints of the armed formations

border areas and on those routes that allowed the SMM to

remained permanently closed, while crossing points on the

cross the contact line. This latter problem led to a security

government-controlled side remained open. The crossing

review within the Luhansk Monitoring Team in November

points near Zolote and Shchastia were operational, but the

and December 2021, as the SMM found itself with no safe,

corresponding checkpoints of the armed formations were

usable vehicular crossing routes between government- and

not. These two crossing points were supposed to be opened

non-government-controlled parts of the Luhansk region. The

in November 2020, in line with the commitments made by the

SMM’s UAVs also faced a growing number of jamming and

sides at the Normandy Four Paris Summit in December 2019.

shooting incidents in 2021. Jamming of the long-range UAVs

The severely curtailed civilian freedom of movement resulted in

led to the temporary suspension of all flights between July and

a 95 per cent decrease in civilian crossings compared with the

September, and the relocation of the flight operations base

pre-COVID-19 period, reduced opportunities for people residing

from Stepanivka to Varvarivka. Long-range UAV test flights

in conflict-affected areas to (re-)connect with families and

resumed on 20 September from the new take-off and landing

communities, and limited their access to health care, education,

site and continued through the rest of the year. Incidents of

pensions and civil documentation as well as their ability to

jamming and shooting at mini- and mid-range UAVs led to the

sustain their livelihoods.

loss of 10 of these assets throughout the year.
The increase in ceasefire violations also had the downstream
effect of leading to higher numbers of civilian casualties

MONITORING IN CENTRAL AND WESTERN
UKRAINE

and damage to property. Between 1 January 2021 and
31 December 2021, the Mission corroborated 88 civilian

The Mission’s eight monitoring teams in central and western

casualties (46 due to shelling and small-arms fire and 42 due

Ukraine continued to monitor the security situation, respect

to mines, unexploded ordnance and other explosive objects)

for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the

and damage to 211 civilian objects and infrastructure sites.1

situation of internally displaced persons. The teams also
gathered information on respect for the rights of religious

The Mission also facilitated 392 “windows of silence” in 2021

communities and national minorities, including language

to enable the repair and maintenance of critical infrastructure

and education rights and respective legislative and policy
developments. In particular, the Mission followed up with

1	

Additional allegations of civilian casualties and damage to civilian objects and
infrastructure that occurred in 2021 are pending SMM corroboration.

persons belonging to national minorities on their reactions to
the Law on Indigenous Peoples of Ukraine, the draft law on
31

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

national communities, the Law on Preventing and Combating

gender sensitivity in all its activities. Its framework consists

Anti-Semitism in Ukraine and the Strategy for Promoting

of two parts: one focused on gender parity and the working

the Realization of the Rights and Opportunities of Persons

environment; the other on monitoring, reporting and other

Belonging to the Roma National Minority.

outside engagements. In September, the Mission published
its third report on the gender dimensions of SMM monitoring,

Total SMM Patrols in 2021
Team
KYIV Head Office
MT CHERNIVTSI
MT DNIPRO
MT IVANO-FRANKIVSK
MT KHARKIV
MT KHERSON
MT KYIV
MT LVIV
MT ODESSA
MT DONETSK
MT LUHANSK
Long-range UAV
Grand Total

“Women’s perceptions of security and their contributions
Total
145
568
459
497
496
527
424
496
316
6,946
6,465
481
17,820

to peace and security”. The report highlights some of the
security concerns of women living close to the contact line
and various ways security threats affect women and girls
differently than men and boys. It also describes some of
the many contributions that women from civil society make
towards peace and security and dialogue throughout Ukraine.
In December 2021, the Chief Monitor handed out the first-ever
SMM Gender Champion Award, acknowledging critical efforts
by Mission members to create a professional and gendersensitive environment and the outstanding work done to
promote gender mainstreaming in the Mission’s activities.

MT: monitoring team

I N T RO D U C I N G E G I S
On 30 November, the SMM launched a new database and
information management system, the Enterprise Geographic
Information System (EGIS), to provide Mission members with
an advanced, user-friendly tool for collecting, sharing and
analysing the Mission’s observations and data. The introduction
of EGIS was a significant milestone for the Mission. The system
provides a common, Mission-wide database, so instead of
managing local copies of information, such as violations related

THEMATIC REPORTS
In 2021, the OSCE SMM published six thematic
reports:
“Restrictions to the SMM’s freedom of movement and
other impediments to the fulfilment of its mandate”
(July–December 2020)
“The impact of mines, unexploded ordnance and other
explosive objects on civilians in the conflict-affected
regions of eastern Ukraine” (November 2019 –
March 2021)
“Gender dimensions of SMM monitoring: women’s
perceptions of security and their contributions to
peace and security” (1 November 2018 – 15 June 2021)

has a centralized database where data flows converge.

“Restrictions to civilian freedom of movement at
crossing points along the contact line and the impact
on civilians” (16 November 2020 – 30 September 2021)

PRO M O T I N G G E N D E R E QUA LI T Y

“Restrictions to the SMM’s freedom of movement and
other impediments to the fulfilment of its mandate”
(January-June 2021)

to the Minsk agreements or UAV flight paths, the entire Mission

In April, the Mission launched its third Gender Equality Action
Plan, covering 2021–2023. The Plan provides the Mission
with a detailed road map for promoting gender equality and

“SMM facilitation of repair and maintenance of civilian
infrastructure along the contact line in Donetsk and
Luhansk regions” (1 July 2019 and 31 October 2021)

Monitoring officers in Severodonetsk, January 2021. (OSCE/Evgeniy Maloletka)

32

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

ON PATROL AT THE CONTACT LINE

Monitoring officers on patrol in Verkhnotoretske, Donetsk region. (OSCE/Monika Olszewska)

On a wintry morning, preparations for an SMM patrol

In Novhorodske, the patrol meets the head of the town

begin: Monika, the patrol leader seconded by Poland,

council. He asks for the SMM’s assistance to enable repairs

gets the security update and arranges logistics. Christine,

to a damaged water pipeline running across the contact

Diana and Eddrina, the patrol drivers, check their vehicles

line that has limited the community’s access to potable

to ensure that the electronics work, the tires are in good

water for weeks.

condition and all required gear is loaded.
Since 2014, the SMM has been facilitating the repair and
They are about to embark on a high-risk patrol to the

operation of critical civilian infrastructure providing water,

villages of Novhorodske and Verkhnotoretske. In addition

gas and electricity to millions of people on both sides of the

to poor road conditions, the all-female patrol faces an

contact line. In 2021, the Mission organized 392 “windows

unpredictable security situation. To mitigate the risk,

of silence” for repairs to 322 civilian infrastructure facilities

among a host of measures, the patrol has a paramedic on

in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.

board, and each member dons a flak jacket, helmet and –
due to COVID-19 – a facemask.

The patrol members climb back in their vehicles, and
Monika gives the signal to head to Verkhnotoretske. There

Eddrina, the Kramatorsk Hub leader, skilfully manoeuvres

the patrol confronts the harsh reality of life along the

one of the five-ton armoured vehicles. A former US

contact line, which cuts off neighbours, friends and family

police officer who has worked with the United Nations

just across the line in Betmanove, forcing them to travel

in Kosovo and Haiti, she has no higher priority than the

hundreds of kilometres to visit people who are sometimes

safety of her team. With her is Maka, a monitoring officer

literally within shouting distance. “The journey is costly and

who previously worked in the humanitarian field in her

time-consuming,” says Diana, a monitoring officer from

native Georgia. Maka explains the added value of female

Canada, as she points to a minefield, “but the alternative

monitoring officers. “Generally, women have greater

entails a heavy price in civilian lives”.

access to different interlocutors,” she says. “Women and
children especially open up more easily. This enables us

The patrol visits Verkhnotoretske’s recently renovated

to provide a fuller picture of the actual situation on the

House of Culture, which was damaged by shelling in 2014.

ground”.

Thanks to the renovation, “we will be able to organize
activities for children and adults alike,” says the centre’s

Before reaching Novhorodske, the patrol stops to fly

director. “We also received an outpatient clinic for basic

an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and check on a sign

medical assistance.”

indicating mines that Christine, a German monitoring
officer with a background in human rights, noticed a few

“It’s the contradiction of life here,” Monika remarks as

days earlier. Fiona, a British monitoring officer and expert

the patrol departs. “Lines are drawn dividing people,

UAV operator, prepares the drone, but the flight fails due

but everywhere I see people coming together to make

to a lack of GPS signal.

things better.”

33

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Project Co-ordinator
in Ukraine
Project Co-ordinator: Ambassador Henrik Villadsen
Budget	

€3,618,500 (Unified Budget),

OSCE Project Co-ordinator in Ukraine | Facebook

€3,019,712 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

OSCE Project Co-ordinator in Ukraine | YouTube

Staff	

5 international, 97 local

Project Co-ordinator: Henrik Villadsen | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/project-coordinator-in-ukraine

The Project Co-ordinator’s work in 2021 focused on supporting Ukraine’s efforts to
implement reforms, address security challenges and enhance implementation of OSCE
commitments. This included developing systemic approaches to humanitarian demining
and rehabilitation of conflict-affected people; mitigating the growing risks of cybercrime,
trafficking and domestic violence; and supporting ongoing transformations in the rule of
law, anti-corruption, decentralization and other spheres.

A D D I N G C I V I L S O C I E T Y E N E RG Y T O
REFORM EFFORTS

and officials from all over Ukraine taking part in six regional
seminars. The use of public funds requires high standards
of accountability, and since January 2021, more than 3,000

Civil society is a powerful ally in transformations, both locally

managers of civil society organizations have taken an online

and in nationwide reforms. A new National Strategy for

course developed by the Co-ordinator to learn to introduce

Promoting Civil Society Development in Ukraine for 2021–

good governance standards into practice.

2026, developed with OSCE support and approved by the
President in September 2021, envisages efforts to improve

The draft law on public consultations, a tool to expand

the climate for civic activism, including opportunities for

civic participation in state decision-making elaborated with

the use of public funds by NGOs. To promote this strategy,

the Co-ordinator’s help, was adopted by the Parliament in

the Co-ordinator supported training in the use of a new

the first reading. To prepare for its implementation, 150

electronic grant procedure for civil society, with 229 activists

representatives of local authorities from 10 regions and

Rescuers from the State Emergency Service of Ukraine take part in an exercise organized by the OSCE Project Co-ordinator in which they practise
preventing leakage of a toxic substance in a traffic collision scenario in Kharkiv, 13 October 2021. (OSCE/Andrii Dziubenko)

34

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

consultations at six training events organized by the OSCE.

E N H A N C I N G PRO T E C T I O N F RO M
C H E M I C A L T H R E AT S

Promoting dialogue as a tool for conflict prevention and

Ageing Soviet-era infrastructure and the ongoing conflict

management was the focus of a weeklong training course

in heavily industrialized Donbas make Ukraine especially

on dialogue in public consultations, which was attended

vulnerable to risks from dangerous chemicals. In 2021,

by 21 communication officers from 18 central authorities.

crowning a three-year effort to align Ukraine’s regulatory

In addition, 16 public servants from six ministries received

system with modern standards, the Co-ordinator presented

training and supervision support in facilitating their own

the government with a compendium of draft documents.

dialogue processes for reforms. The Co-ordinator also

These included a law on chemical safety and security, two

produced a handbook on using dialogue in reform processes

technical regulations – on safety of chemical products, and

together with a flowchart and explanatory cartoon that help

on their classification, labelling and packaging – 17 national

officials assess how to use dialogue in different situations.

standards for handling chemicals, and a set of legislative and

the city of Kyiv enhanced their skills in conducting public

regulatory amendments to procedures for the prevention of

A D D R E S S I N G G E N D E R I N E Q UA LI T I E S
WITH CONSTITUTIONAL JUSTICE TOOLS

major chemical accidents. Following OSCE recommendations,
lawmakers have already amended the law on high-risk
establishments.

As gender stereotypes are deeply rooted, it is not unusual for

The Co-ordinator also developed a modular training

disputes over equality to end up in court. To enable people

programme for Ukrainian rescuers on chemical, biological

to defend their rights in Ukraine’s Constitutional Court, the

and radiological (CBRN) emergency response, produced

Co-ordinator supported the legal and practical introduction

three handbooks on CBRN threats, prepared 35 trainers

of a constitutional complaint mechanism, and undertook a

and outfitted the training institutions of Ukraine’s State

two-year effort in 2020–2021 to promote its use in addressing

Emergency Service (SESU) with training equipment, including

gender-related and discrimination issues. Some 380 human

hazmat coveralls, gas masks, decontamination cabins and

rights defenders, lawyers, activists, lecturers and students

hazmat and wound simulation kits.

gained insights on gender-based discrimination and the
peculiarities of argumentation and the review process for

Identification of toxic substances is key to dealing with

constitutional complaints in four online and two advanced

chemical emergencies; SESU approved and now uses

in-person training courses. A manual developed with the

methodological guidelines on sampling during chemical

Co-ordinator’s support, Gender Equality: Theory and Practice

emergency response developed by the OSCE. The Co-ordinator

in Comparative Constitutional Law, presents international

also provided SESU with an advanced mobile chemical

practices and reviews the concept of equality in various

identification laboratory to use in the conflict-affected areas of

historical and social contexts, and a draft guidebook for

eastern Ukraine and trained 15 local responders to use it.

Constitutional Court justices provides a toolkit for gender
analysis in constitutional proceedings. With OSCE support,
gender-sensitive constitutionalism was widely discussed at
various legal conferences.

Activists brainstorm to develop indicators for implementing the National Strategy for Development of Civil Society at an event organized by the OSCE
Project Co-ordinator at the tenth Civil Society Development Forum in Kyiv on 30 November 2021. (OSCE/Kostiantyn Chernichkin)

35

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

COMBINING PASSION WITH SERVICE

Viktoriia Dorosh with her service dog Dzhakart during an official event where the OSCE Project Co-ordinator in Ukraine donated specialized
equipment to support the canine units of the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine. Kyiv, 19 August 2021. (SBGS/Valerii Oliinyk)

Viktoriia Dorosh loves dogs. As a child, she dreamed of

Viktoriia and Dzhakart are one of approximately 1,500

becoming a dog trainer. She went on to study veterinary

teams of canine experts and their service dogs working

medicine. She also participated in various dog training

in State Border Guard Service canine units throughout

courses and took up dog breeding. After finishing her

Ukraine. In 2021, the OSCE Project Co-ordinator in

studies, she got a job in the Aviation Security Service at

Ukraine provided the SBGS canine service with specialized

Kyiv’s Boryspil International Airport, where she had daily

equipment to help its teams do their work. This donation

contact with canine specialists from the State Border

was part of a larger OSCE project to support the State

Guard Service of Ukraine (SBGS). Their work inspired her

Border Guard Service in Ukraine in preventing and

to enrol in specialized training at the SBGS Canine Training

combating illicit trafficking in weapons, ammunition

Centre.

and explosives. The project supports the introduction of
best international practices and the development and

Today Viktoriia is a first-category inspector and canine

improvement of staff training programmes, including for

specialist for the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine.

the canine service. It is part of the OSCE’s comprehensive

She works at Boryspil International Airport with her service

programme to assist the Ukrainian authorities in

dog, a four-year-old Rottweiler called Dzhakart.

strengthening their capacities to prevent and combat all
aspects of illicit trafficking in weapons, ammunition and

Dzhakart has been trained to search for weapons,

explosives.

ammunition and explosives. Viktoriia leads him through
daily practice in which he is totally focused on identifying

In 2021, SBGS service dogs detected 188 weapons, 6,000

relevant scents. Although none of the items Dzhakart has

items of ammunition and 25.62 kilograms of explosives.

been trained to find have been discovered at Boryspil

36

Airport while he has worked there, Viktoriia knows he

Viktoriia is proud to serve in the State Border Guard

does his job very well. Dzhakart regularly participates

Service of Ukraine, and working with Dzhakart is a dream

in competitions for service dogs, and thanks to his

job for her: “I can combine my passion for dogs with

continuous training, he always achieves the highest scores.

service for the benefit of the state.”

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Observer Mission at the Russian
Checkpoints Gukovo and Donetsk
Chief Observer: Ambassador György Varga
Budget	

€1,031,800 (for the period of the mandate
from 1 February 2021 to 30 September 2021,
and closure costs covering 1 October to
15 November 2021)

Staff	

22 international

www.osce.org/observer-mission-at-russian-checkpoints-gukovo-and-donetsk-discontinued

After the Russian Federation announced its decision not to extend the mandate of the OSCE
Observer Mission at the Russian Checkpoints Gukovo and Donetsk beyond 30 September 2021, and
following the Chair’s announcement at the Permanent Council on 16 September 2021 that all options
to reach consensus on a mandate extension had been exhausted, the Observer Mission’s activities
were discontinued as of 1 October 2021.

O B S E RVAT I O N T R E N D S

The Mission also observed that, over time, the number
of people in military-style uniforms crossing at these two
border crossing points gradually decreased after mid-

In 2021, the Observer Mission observed that the

February 2015.

movement of people crossing at the two border crossing
points (BCPs) decreased slightly in comparison with 2020,

From its deployment in July 2014 through its closure in

from 2,491,640 to 2,392,750. Overall, the Donetsk BCP

September 2021, the Observer Mission observed the

continued to experience more traffic than the Gukovo BCP.

following movements:

	25,069,781	

people2

	39,487	

people in military-style uniforms

	2,683	

families moving with a significant amount of luggage (travelling in both directions)

	247,834	

trucks

	54,769	

cargo minivans

	712	

ambulances

	140	

funeral service vehicles

	100	

Russian convoys crossing into Ukraine through the Donetsk border crossing point3

	7,263	

trains

	207	

aircraft (flying over the territory of the Russian Federation)

2	

This figure does not include people crossing the border in both directions from 18 to 24 July 2018. The Observer Mission did not receive the relevant data from the
competent authorities of the host country for that week.

3	

At the time the report was drafted, the Observer Mission had observed 100 Russian convoys, while Russian officials account for 102 convoys. The discrepancy comes
from the fact that the convoys crossed at the Matveev-Kurgan / Uspenka BCP on two occasions. The Observer Mission in this case was not able to observe the convoys
and therefore could not record them. Hence, the Observer Mission’s count of the Russian convoys differs from the official number provided by the Russian Federation.

37

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Deployed in 2014 in the lead-up to the signing of the Minsk

Throughout the entire tenure of the Mission, its mandate

agreements, the Observer Mission served as an important

remained the same, and 26 OSCE participating States

element of the OSCE’s response to the crisis in and around

seconded personnel to enable the Mission to fulfil its

Ukraine, helping to reduce tensions and build confidence

mandated tasks. In 2021, 22 international observers were

in the region. Operating under the principles of impartiality

seconded by 15 participating States.

and transparency, the Mission’s observers were entrusted
with monitoring and reporting on the situation at the

Through its presence in 24-hour shifts at the two Russian

Russian checkpoints of Donetsk and Gukovo, as well as on

checkpoints, the Observer Mission increased transparency

movements across the border.

on the Russian–Ukrainian border. Despite its small size and
limited observation area, the Mission served as a unique and

The Observer Mission was established by a decision of

reliable source of timely information on movements across

the Permanent Council on 24 July 2014 in response to

the two crossing points. Its observations were reflected in

an invitation from the Russian Federation. The invitation

375 weekly updates, 100 spot reports on Russian convoys

followed the Berlin Declaration of 2 July 2014 in which the

bound for Ukraine bearing the inscription “Humanitarian aid

foreign ministers of France, Germany, the Russian Federation

from the Russian Federation” and frequent reports to the

and Ukraine invited the OSCE to deploy international

Permanent Council. The Mission’s weekly and spot reports

observers to two crossing points on the Russian side of the

remain available on the OSCE website in both English and

border with Ukraine. The Mission’s initial mandate period

Russian.

was agreed for three months. Starting in 2018, the Mission’s

38

mandate period was extended on a four-month basis;

The Mission was able to implement its mandate without

however, in May 2021 it was reduced to two months.

interruption, including during the COVID-19 pandemic.

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

Mission to Moldova
Head of Mission: Dr. Claus Neukirch
Budget	
Staff	

€2,302,700 (Unified Budget),

OSCE Mission to Moldova | Facebook

€42,722 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

OSCE Mission to Moldova (@OSCEMoldova) | Twitter

13 international, 39 local

Head of Mission: Claus Neukirch | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/mission-to-moldova

The Mission to Moldova remained actively involved in facilitating a comprehensive and lasting
political settlement of the Transdniestrian conflict throughout 2021. Besides the challenges created
by limited in-person interactions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Mission continued building
confidence, facilitating interaction between the Sides and strengthening the protection of human
rights on both banks of the Dniester/Nistru River.

D I A LO G U E I N T H E T R A N S D N I E S T R I A N
S E T T LE M E N T PRO C E S S

During the course of the year, the Mission continued its
good practices for connecting the Sides on all levels through
online tools and provided good offices to the nine in-person

In concert with the Swedish Chairpersonship, the Mission

meetings of the Chief Negotiators and 24 thematic working

continued to work at all levels of the Transdniestrian

group meetings facilitated by the Mission.

Settlement Process to achieve tangible progress in the
implementation of all agreements expressed in the protocols

International partners remained united in their efforts to

of the “5+2” meetings in Rome (2018), Vienna (2017) and

advance the Settlement Process. This was reflected in the

Berlin (2016), thus contributing to a solid basis for further

joint statement issued by the mediators and observers after

confidence-building measures.

a visit led by the Special Representative of the Chairperson-in
Office, Thomas Mayr-Harting, to Chisinau and Tiraspol on

In 2021, the Settlement Process benefited from the strong

3–4 June.

support of the OSCE Chairperson-in-Office: Minister Ann
Linde paid two working visits to Moldova, where, among

The constructive interaction between the Sides on the

other issues, she stressed the need to keep Women, Peace

COVID-19 vaccination campaign served as an excellent

and Security as well as gender equality high on the agenda of

example of how confidence-building measures can benefit

the negotiations.

the people on both banks of the river.

A monitoring team from the OSCE Mission to Moldova interacting with a local resident in the Security Zone. (OSCE/Igor Schimbator)

39

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

dialogue and share experiences. During the joint sessions,
participants learned about standard operating procedures
and modern methodologies in the field of human rights
monitoring with a special focus on public emergencies.

R E D U C I N G T H E E X PLO S I V E R I S K O F
CO N V E N T I O N A L A M M U N I T I O N
S T O C K PI LE S
Over the past year, the Mission continued its efforts to
improve the overall safety of Moldovan citizens by minimizing
the risks posed by ammunition storage sites.
Members of the Moldovan armed forces attending a course on
ammunition storage safety. (OSCE/Mihail Tcaciuc)

In 2021, the Mission completed the installation of a chemical
laboratory that was furnished and extensively equipped,
including with a high-performance liquid chromatograph that

The pragmatic approach to the negotiations displayed in

will assist with an analysis of ammunition and an assessment

2021 provides a basis for advancing the settlement process in

of its condition and compliance with safety standards.

the following year.

Starting in September, Austrian experts were training
personnel to make the laboratory operational.

S T R E N G T H E N I N G O M B U D S PE R S O N
INSTITUTIONS ON BOTH BANKS

The Mission also organized five training courses in the
framework of a project to mitigate explosive risks at National
Army ammunition depots. With assistance from Austrian and

In 2021, the Mission continued building confidence and

Belarusian experts, 26 participants enhanced their skills in

strengthening the protection of human rights on both banks

ammunition conservation storage management, propellant

of the Dniester/Nistru River. In September, the Mission

chemical analysis and digital record-keeping systems.

organized four online workshops to enhance the human
rights monitoring capacities of the ombudsperson institutions

In line with OSCE best practices and international standards,

on both banks. Participants worked together on case studies,

the Mission also supported the Moldovan National Army’s

shared best practices and discussed current challenges. In

assessment of conventional ammunition storage sites,

two separate sessions, participants learned about the role of

including visual inspection of stockpiles, palletization and

national human rights institutions in a public emergency and

categorization, to reduce risks and safeguard the security of

reflected on their experiences and challenges in this field.

arms and munitions storage.

Two joint sessions brought together about 25 representatives
from both institutions and provided a platform to establish

Ann Linde, OSCE Chairperson-in-Office and Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs, paid two working visits to Chisinau and Tiraspol on 18 February and
6 October 2021. (OSCE/Igor Schimbator)

40

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

Presence in Albania
Head of Presence: Ambassador Vincenzo Del Monaco
Budget	
Staff	

€2,981,200 (Unified Budget),

OSCE Presence in Albania | Facebook

€1,405,078 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

OSCE Presence in Albania (@OSCEinAlbania) | Twitter

20 international, 84 local

OSCE Presence in Albania (@osceinalbania) | Instagram

www.osce.org/presence-in-albania

The OSCE Presence in Albania works with its Albanian partners in advancing arms control and
confidence-building measures; upholding the rule of law and law enforcement; combating corruption,
organized crime and trafficking in human beings; reforming electoral legislation; enhancing the
capacities of the Assembly; supporting the freedom of opinion and expression; promoting human
rights, including protection of the rights of persons belonging to national minorities as well as gender
equality; and empowering civil society and youth.

B O L S T E R I N G CO - O PE R AT I O N W I T H
T H E A S S E M B LY O F A LB A N I A

mid-term Strategic Plan for 2021–2025. The Presence has
supported the Assembly in an inclusive consultation process
to collect feedback, involving administrative services as

The Presence actively supported the Central Election

well as key parliamentarians as the main stakeholders.

Commission and other Albanian institutions in the

In July 2021, the Assembly approved the Plan, which was

preparations for and conduct of the 25 April parliamentary

accompanied by an Action Plan with detailed information

elections. All parties participated in the election and took

on budget planning aligned with the Assembly’s Mid-Term

their seats in the newly elected Assembly. This sets a

Budget Framework. The Presence co-ordinated the overall

hospitable scene for the Presence’s continued work with the

strategic planning process and introduced some of the best

Assembly, a long-term partner, including but not limited to

international standards and practices from the national

proactive follow-up to ODIHR’s key recommendations.

parliaments of other OSCE participating States, including
expertise from the Austrian, Danish and Greek parliaments.

The Presence’s long-term support to the Assembly reached
a milestone with the drafting and approval of a well-defined

The increased role of women in countering violent extremism and radicalization that lead to terrorism was the focus of a conference organized by the
OSCE Presence in Albania. Tirana, 14 October 2021. (OSCE/Joana Karapataqi)

41

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

PA RTNE R ING WITH THE CON S TITU­T IO ­
N A L COURT ON S TR ATEG IC PL A N­N ING
A ND C A PACIT Y- BUILDING

by developing a comprehensive methodology to enable
government institutions, municipality associations and the
Agency for the Support of Local Self-Governance to develop
an innovative approach on a pilot basis, which can then

After two years without adjudication of constitutional justice

be replicated in all 61 municipalities. Once endorsed, the

due to the lack of a quorum, the expectations of citizens,

methodology will be used to support local governments in

domestic institutions and the international community for

assessing natural capital for improved fiscal resources.

an effective Constitutional Court are high. The Court’s new
composition, combined with a considerable backlog of
pending cases, implies the need to rapidly strengthen the
Constitutional Court’s capacities. The Presence stepped up its
support to the Court, in co-operation with other partners, to

WO M E N AT T H E F O R E F RO N T I N
PR E V E N T I N G V I O LE N T E X T R E M I S M
A N D R A D I C A LI Z AT I O N

develop a Strategy and Action Plan for 2021–2023 to enhance
the Court’s impartiality, independence, accountability,

Recognizing that women can play a key role in preventing

efficiency and transparency as well as access to the Court.

violent extremism and radicalization that can lead to

Presented to the public in a live-streamed round table, these

terrorism, in 2021 the Presence convened a regional

are the first strategic documents for the Court’s operation

conference that brought together national co-ordinators

since its establishment in 1992. In parallel, the Presence

for countering violent extremism, women leaders,

assisted the Court in assessing its internal case management

policymakers, academics and other experts from South-

system and provided professional literature and access to

Eastern Europe as well as Austria, Italy and the United

legal research. In April, the Head of Presence and the Court’s

Kingdom to comprehensively assess the role of women in

Acting Chair signed a memorandum of understanding for

violent extremism and terrorism in the regional context. The

continuous co-operation to intensify the Presence’s provision

Director of Albania’s Coordination Centre for Countering

of capacity-building and technical support to equip the

Violent Extremism said that the establishment of various

Constitutional Court with additional tools and resources.

networks to prevent violent extremism was a key focus of the
Centre’s work, including a women’s network that offers an

STRENGTHENING THE FISCAL
AU T O N O M Y O F LO C A L
G OV E R N M E N T S

open voluntary platform constantly supported by civil society
organizations. Albania’s Deputy Minister of Health and Social
Security presented the government’s increased efforts to
implement UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women,
Peace and Security and to promote gender equality, while

Not least due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all 61 municipalities

praising civil society as a key partner in these efforts. The

in Albania faced financial challenges to exercising their

conference concluded with concrete recommendations for

mandated functions. In 2021, in response to the findings

further research and analysis on the causes that drive women

of a 2020 Presence-led study, the Ministry of Interior

to violent extremism and how to create better and more

requested support in assessing the potential for introducing

gender-sensitive responses in addressing violent extremism

municipal natural capital in Albania. The Presence responded

and radicalization in the context of South-Eastern Europe.

Albania’s Constitutional Court presents its first-ever strategy and action plan prepared with support from the OSCE Presence in Albania. Tirana,
22 April 2021. (OSCE/Joana Karapataqi)

42

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

OSCE Mission to Bosnia
and Herzegovina

OSCE Mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina | Facebook

Head of Mission: Ambassador Kathleen Kavalec
Budget	

€11,682,000 (Unified Budget),
€760,518 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

314.5 posts (34 international, 280.5 national)

OSCE Mission to BiH BA (@OSCEBiH) | Twitter
OSCE in Bosnia and Herzegovina (@oscebih) | Instagram
OSCE Mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina | YouTube
Head of Mission:
Kathleen Kavalec (@KathleenKavalec) | Twitter
Kathy Kavalec | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/bih

In 2021, the OSCE Mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina applied innovative approaches to promoting
security, including supporting host country efforts to address corruption, process war crimes cases,
strengthen independent media and deal with the impact of environmental challenges and the
COVID-19 pandemic. It developed new ways to engage youth and to build the host country’s capacity
to aid victims of domestic violence. Despite the pandemic, the Mission continued working towards its
long-term goals: helping to foster a stable, secure and democratic society.

PRO T E C T I N G C H I LD R E N ’ S R I G H T S
A N D PR E V E N T I N G V I O LE N T
EXTREMISM

partners, successfully advocated for amendments to the Law
on Extrajudicial Proceedings of the Federation of BiH in 2021,
enabling the births of affected children to be registered and
ensuring that they have access to vital services. A number

When a group of women and children returned to Bosnia

of birth registrations have already been processed, with

and Herzegovina (BiH) from a refugee camp in Syria in 2019,

more in the works. The Mission is closely following the court

there was no legal way to register the births of children

proceedings and supporting the government and civil society

born in Syria. As a result, these children were denied access

organizations to ensure a positive and sustainable outcome.

to basic public services and rendered invisible to the BiH
administrative system. To overcome this denial of basic
human rights, the Mission, together with international

Žepče clergy of all faiths continue to work together for a better present and future for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. (OSCE/Sanin Muftic)

43

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

The OSCE Mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina works with young people across the country to support them in their peace-building efforts and their
commitment to a brighter future for their country. (OSCE/Edib Jahić)

O N E M O N U M E N T, O N E CO M M U N I T Y

Žepče and Bosanski Petrovac have set an example for
communities across the country. The Mission will build on

Twenty-five years after the signing of the Dayton Peace

these successes to foster positive examples of co-existence

Accords, post-war reconciliation remains a challenge in BiH,

and reconciliation in the interest of all citizens.

and many communities remain divided. Some communities,
however, stand out for their commitment to building peace
and promoting genuine reconciliation.

T R A I N I N G E N V I RO N M E N TA L
L AW Y E R S

Žepče and Bosanski Petrovac are two prominent examples
of communities committed to promoting co-existence,

A paucity of court cases on environmental matters and the

mutual respect and trust. In 2017, Žepče became the first

lengthy processing time for such cases due to a shortage of

municipality in BiH to erect a memorial to all civilian victims

environmental legal experts undermine access to justice in

of war that has been fully endorsed by all local war veteran

BiH and allow environmental degradation to go unchecked.

associations. In 2021, the memorial was refurbished with

To help build the next generation of environmental lawyers,

Mission support, and in June it was unveiled in conjunction

in 2021 the Mission co-operated with the Aarhus Centre

with a visit by the international community co-organized

Sarajevo to expand a semester-long Environmental Legal

by the Mission to commend Žepče for embracing dialogue

Clinics Programme from two to four universities, also

and reconciliation. In September 2021, Bosanski Petrovac

bringing the initiative to the Herzegovina region for the

marked World Peace Day by unveiling a new monument to

first time. Through a combination of lectures and practical

peace and designating September as a Month of Peaceand

workshops, 40 law students learned about environmental

Tolerance to help overcome the painful legacy of the forced

legislation and cases – which are not covered in law faculties’

displacements of the Bosniak and Serb communities in 1992

core curricula – while developing their research, case

and 1995 respectively. The Mission co-organized a high-

preparation and advocacy skills. The top students from

level international visit to demonstrate the international

previous Environmental Legal Clinics have gone on to work

community’s support for Bosanski Petrovac’s efforts.

with the Aarhus Centre, gaining experience working on
real-life environmental cases and giving back to the local
community by providing consultations and advice to citizens
and civic associations.

44

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

OSCE Mission in Kosovo
Head of Mission: Ambassador Michael Davenport
Budget	

€17,462,600 (Unified Budget),
€460,470 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

115 international and 375.5 local

OSCE Mission in Kosovo | Facebook
OSCE Kosovo (@OSCEKosovo) | Twitter
OSCE Mission in Kosovo (@oscekosovo) | Instagram
OSCE Mission in Kosovo | YouTube
Head of Mission:
Michael Davenport (@DavenportOSCE) | Twitter

www.osce.org/mission-in-kosovo

In 2021, the Mission continued its work with institutions in Kosovo 4 on protecting human and
community rights, empowering youth and women, promoting media literacy and enhancing public
safety. The Mission published the fifth edition of its landmark Community Rights Assessment Report,
organized the now-traditional dialogue and youth academies that bring together women and youth
from different communities, and worked with law enforcement agencies to increase the number
of non-majority community members in their ranks. In response to the proliferation of fake news
and misinformation related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Mission ran a Kosovo-wide TV and social
media campaign to highlight the importance of seeking out accurate sources of information.

A B R E A K T H RO U G H I N L A N G UAG E
RIGHTS

a milestone for students from all communities, who now
have the opportunity to study both Albanian and Serbian, as
well as the history of the Balkans. Beyond bridging language

After more than two decades of a deep linguistic divide,

barriers, the programme seeks to graduate proficient

Kosovo saw a significant breakthrough in the area of

translators and interpreters to address the need for language

language rights and access to education in 2021. With

professionals in government and the private sector.

assistance from the Mission, the Balkanistics Study
Programme at the University of Prishtina’s Faculty of

The launch of this initiative was the culmination of four

Philology was reaccredited and reopened. This represents

years of the Mission’s advocacy and technical support to
the University. In addition to assisting in the design of the

4	

All references to Kosovo, whether to the territory, institutions or population, in this
Report should be understood in compliance with United Nations Security Council
Resolution 1244.

curriculum and recruitment of candidate professors, the
Mission provided IT equipment, specialized textbooks and

Participants in the seventh OSCE Dialogue Academy for Young Women with Deputy Head of the OSCE Mission in Kosovo Kilian Wahl. Mavrovo,
North Macedonia, 16 October 2021. (OSCE/Dragana Soćanin)

45

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

The OSCE Mission in Kosovo supports engagement between community members and the police to help build public trust and confidence in the police.
(OSCE)

relevant literature, which have helped the programme meet

Belgrade, which have enabled some participants to visit each

the immediate needs of the first cohort of 11 students who

other’s societies for the first time. The alumnae also work

enrolled in the autumn of 2021.

on developing initiatives to inspire others, implementing
over 20 projects involving all communities. The OSCE will

E M P OW E R I N G WO M E N T O B E CO M E
AG E N T S O F C H A N G E

continue expanding this group of extraordinary women who
are voicing women’s rights as human rights, enhancing public
participation and gender equality, and overcoming barriers in
the region.

Every October for the last seven years, the OSCE has brought
together young women from Prishtinë/Priština and Belgrade
to participate in the Dialogue Academy, a women’s leadership
development programme. Given the divisions in the region,

H E LPI N G T H E KO S OVO P O LI C E T O
B E T T E R S E RV E T H E P U B LI C

the likelihood of these women meeting in other contexts
is not very high, so they apply to the Academy seeking to

To foster a safe and secure environment for all communities,

overcome these barriers. In the words of one participant, the

the Mission works with the Police Inspectorate, the body

Academy offers “an amazing opportunity for women from the

that oversees the work of the Kosovo Police, to promote

region to get together and focus on the things they have in

and strengthen police accountability, and improve the

common”. Participants expect “to keep the special bond that

public’s trust in and satisfaction with the police. An important

was created, either by seeing each other after the Academy,

outcome of training on conducting independent inspections

or by creating initiatives that would help people”.

of police structures and functions that the Mission provided
in 2020 for 17 Police Inspectorate officers was the 2021

In 2021, Secretary General Helga Schmid visited the Dialogue

publication of the Police Inspectorate’s first report on

Academy and shared her reflections on being a woman

monitoring public confidence and satisfaction with the

leading high-level negotiation processes, and her experience

Kosovo Police. The report presents the results of a survey of

as the first woman to serve as Secretary General of the OSCE.

nearly 1,800 people across Kosovo about their interactions

Her engagement with the participants inspired and motivated

with and opinions about the Kosovo Police. The report’s

them to further strengthen their relationships and networks

conclusions and recommendations are helping the police

and empower each other.

address areas of concern and improve their performance in
providing services to the public.

The Mission also supports a network of 160 alumnae of the
Dialogue Academy through visits to Prishtinë/Priština and
46

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

Mission to Montenegro
Head of Mission: Ambassador Dominique Waag
Budget	

€2,152,100 (Unified Budget),
€227,318 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

11 international, 30 local (including 9 under
extrabudgetary projects)

OSCE Mission to Montenegro | Facebook
Head of Mission:
Dominique Waag (@DominiqueWaag) | Twitter

www.osce.org/mission-to-montenegro

The Mission continued to work with Montenegrin institutions by providing effective and resultsoriented programmes that foster security co-operation, support electoral reform, strengthen
democratic institutions, promote gender equality, strengthen an independent and professional
media landscape, and support regional youth reconciliation and exchanges through co-operation
with the local branch office of the Regional Youth Co-operation Office.

E N CO U R AG I N G WO M E N T O J O I N T H E
P O LI C E

was the career for her. Anastasija saw herself in a police
uniform, with policewomen from the videos as her future
colleagues. She decided to apply to the Police Academy and

To help recruit more women to join the police, the Mission

was accepted. She had always wanted to enrol, but it was

launched a public information campaign together with the

the campaign that gave her the courage to apply. Likewise,

Police Directorate and the Police Academy. The campaign

Andjela was drawn to the campaign through billboards,

ran on television, billboards and social media platforms and

posts on social networks and TV spots. Encouraged by the

featured six 30-second videos promoting women as police

campaign, she faced down prejudices about the role of

officers. The Police Academy subsequently reported that 38.8

women in society and applied to the Police Academy. She

per cent of enrolled candidates were women, up from 28 per

encountered resistance to her decision, so she enjoyed the

cent the previous year.

opportunity to prove that women are equal. At the Academy,
she found no discrimination; on the contrary, all her

Ivana knew she had to enrol when she saw the campaign. She

colleagues helped each other.

loved sports and helping people, so she knew that policing

Young people finalizing the Regional Youth Co-operation Office (RYCO) Strategy 2022–2024 at a workshop supported by the OSCE Mission to
Montenegro, Budva, 22 November 2021. (RYCO)

47

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

Students from the Department of Media Studies and Journalism at the University of Montenegro learning to use drones donated by the OSCE Mission
to Montenegro, Podgorica, 19 November 2021. (OSCE)

O PE N PA R LI A M E N T

AG E N C Y F O R E LE C T RO N I C M E D I A
TAC K LE S C R I S I S M A N AG E M E N T

To enhance the openness of parliamentary activities, the
Mission supported Parliament’s public outreach initiatives

The Agency for Electronic Media, Montenegro’s regulatory

with a donation of robotic cameras, computers and

body for electronic media, turned to the Mission for

production equipment, enabling citizens to easily follow the

assistance in crisis communication and preventing negative

work of their MPs. In March 2021, Parliament began live-

publicity. The Mission engaged an international expert to

streaming committee sessions and events on its YouTube

work with the Agency’s communications team, which at

channel and broadcasting live on the new Parliamentary

that time was confronting the challenge of dealing with

Channel of the national public broadcaster. Ratings for the

media outlets broadcasting hate speech and discriminatory

new channel reflected the popularity of these broadcasts.

content. As part of the training provided by the expert, the

“Open and friendly co-operation with the OSCE Mission to

team analysed responses to different crisis scenarios that

Montenegro helped us increase the transparency and public

could strengthen both the public’s and the media’s trust

outreach of Parliament,” said Speaker of Parliament Aleksa

in the Agency and could avoid and minimize reputational

Bečić. The Mission also enabled Parliament to convene

damage. The Mission also supported the development of

electronic committee meetings and provide simultaneous

a Crisis Action Plan that provides a system of responses to

interpretation for parliamentary sessions, meetings and

possible crises that enable the Agency to fulfil its regulatory

events, enabling Parliament to reach a wider national and

responsibilities while preserving its legal and functional

international audience. According to research by the Center

independence. Elvira Ceković, Head of Public Relations and

for Democratic Transition, the Parliament of Montenegro

General Affairs at the Agency for Electronic Media, said

ranked first in the region for the transparency of its work.

that the Mission had strengthened the Agency’s capacity in
challenging times, helping to “build stronger links among the
Agency, media and the public”.

48

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

Mission to Serbia
Head of Mission: Ambassador Jan Braathu
Budget	
Staff	

€6,258,600 (Unified Budget),
€1,121,098 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

OSCE Mission to Serbia | Facebook

21 international, 112.5 local (including 15 under

OSCE_Serbia (@OSCE_Serbia) | Twitter

extrabudgetary projects)

OSCE Mission to Serbia (@osce_serbia) | Instagram

www.osce.org/mission-to-serbia

In 2021, the Mission supported Serbia’s reform process in areas related to its mandate: strengthening
the rule of law and judicial independence, combating organized crime and corruption, protecting
human rights, ensuring media freedom and pluralism, and fostering integration of national
minorities. It continued to adapt its working methods to the challenges posed by the COVID-19
pandemic, and to work in partnership with Serbia’s institutions, media, civil society and international
partners to foster an inclusive democratic system accountable to all its citizens.

PRO M O T I N G G O O D G OV E R N A N C E

constituents to promote gender-responsive budgeting and
responsible environmental governance.

Following the 2020 National Assembly and local elections,
the Mission provided training for new MPs and councillors

As Serbia works to enhance the separation of powers through

on their legislative, representative and oversight roles. The

constitutional reform, the Mission supported debates among

Mission supported amendments to the Code of Conduct for

judges and prosecutors on amendments to the Constitution

MPs and rolled out ethics codes for local self-government

concerning the judiciary. The Mission has also been training

units, which were translated into the languages of national

judicial stakeholders to uphold independence and integrity, to

minorities. The Mission supported cross-party initiatives

protect the rights of victims and witnesses of crimes – including

– the Women’s Parliamentary Network and the Green

by donating videoconferencing equipment to five courts – and

Parliamentary Group – facilitating their outreach to local

to ensure human rights–compliant treatment of prisoners.

Training for police officers on youth safety, Belgrade, 7 May 2021. (OSCE/Milan Obradović)

49

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Participants in the Professional Practice Programme from south-west Serbia share their experiences with the Deputy Head of Mission,
Belgrade, 25 June 2021. (OSCE/Milan Obradović)

I N T E RC U LT U R A L YO U T H D I A LO G U E
A N D R E G I O N A L CO - O PE R AT I O N

S E C U R I T Y A N D S A F E T Y F O R A LL
CITIZENS

As an investment in Serbia’s future, the Mission engaged

In partnership with the Interior Ministry, the Mission worked

youth across all its programmes. For example, 197 youth

to strengthen police accountability and ensure a more

from various communities and religious groups took part in

inclusive police service. The Mission built the capacities of

Mission-sponsored intercultural training activities, while the

174 police officers to investigate corruption, cybercrime and

Summer School on Human Rights and the anti-discrimination

terrorism financing, including through a series of workshops

legal clinic taught 52 students to recognize and address

in six areas related to organized crime and transnational

discrimination and hate crime. For the third consecutive

threats. Boosting regional investigative co-operation, the

year, the Mission’s Professional Practice Programme enabled

Mission continued supporting the Permanent Conference of

youth from minority areas to spend six months working in

Organized Crime Prosecutors and the operational meetings

state institutions. Together with the Mission in Kosovo, the

of regional task forces against human smuggling. At the local

Mission to Serbia organized the seventh Dialogue Academy

level, it helped monitor the implementation of the Women,

for young women from Belgrade and Pristina to promote

Peace and Security agenda and initiated a juvenile crime

mutual understanding, mediation and reconciliation. To

prevention project.

foster positive narratives in the region, the Mission and the
OSCE Presence in Albania organized a learning exchange
for journalism students from Serbia and Albania. Building

M E D I A F R E E D O M A N D PLU R A LI S M

upon the Mission-supported initiative Humans of Albania
and Serbia, the youth councils of the two countries signed

To ensure implementation of Serbia’s 2020 Media Strategy

a memorandum of co-operation. The Mission continued

and Action Plan, the Mission remained the key partner of the

promoting education opportunities for youth from national

government and the media in developing relevant legislative

minorities, including at the bilingual Bujanovac Department

amendments. The Mission facilitated discussions with

of Economics. Serbian–Albanian language courses held in

academia and youth on the impact of digital technologies on

Bujanovac to help intercommunity dialogue saw the highest

media freedom, professionalism and ethics. The sustainability

enrolment rate since 2016.

of local media outlets, including outlets operating in minority
languages, featured during debates with the media, local
governments and national minority councils. The safety of
journalists remained a priority for the Mission-supported
Permanent Working Group on Safety of Journalists, which
is working to amend the Criminal Code to better protect
journalists.

50

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

BOOSTING PROFESSIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
FOR YOUTH FROM MINORITY AND UNDER­
DEVELOPED AREAS

Anita Mahmutović, Belgrade, 20 October 2020. (OSCE/Milan Obradović)

Anita Mahmutović, a geographer from the Bosniak-

Commissioner for Protection of Equality; and the Co-

majority municipality of Sjenica, Serbia, was thrilled to

ordination Body for Preševo, Bujanovac and Medveđa.

learn about the Mission to Serbia’s Professional Practice

Many participants have continued their employment with

Programme, which enables young professionals from

state institutions since completing the Programme.

national minority–populated and underdeveloped areas
to spend six months working with state institutions.

Anita is one of them. After completing her professional

Participants gain experience while supporting the

practice in the Programme’s 2020–2021 cycle, she was

implementation of the rule of law and Serbia’s reform

hired for a post in the Sector for Co-operation with Civil

agenda.

Society at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and
Social Dialogue. Now she is putting her newly developed

“I saw it as an opportunity to gain knowledge and new

skills and expertise to use by managing documentation

skills,” says Anita. “I dedicated myself completely during

in support of the Ministry’s joint projects with civil

those six months.” She worked closely with her mentor

society organizations and as the Ministry’s focal point for

and other senior colleagues at the Ministry of Human and

communicating with them. It is a responsible task, as this

Minority Rights and Social Dialogue to get acquainted with

newly created ministry places dialogue with various social

the Ministry’s procedures and to build her expertise. She

groups at the forefront of its work.

also developed a range of professional skills, including
problem-solving, prioritizing and negotiating, as well as

Anita is convinced that the Professional Practice

working both independently and in a team.

Programme is an important investment in young people
from smaller communities, giving them opportunities

Implemented in partnership with the Serbian Government

for the professional development of their choice.

since 2019, the Mission’s Professional Practice Programme

The Programme not only opens up new pathways of

has so far placed 21 young professionals from the

opportunity, but it also enables young women and men

Albanian, Bosniak and Serb communities at nine ministries

from these communities to contribute to their country’s

and agencies. They include, among others, the Ministry

progress. This is inclusive youth participation in action.

of Public Administration and Local Self-Government;

One of the Programme’s most important lessons, Anita

the Agency for Prevention of Corruption; the Ministry

says, is that “through commitment and hard work we can

of Education, Science and Technology; the Office of the

achieve great things”.

51

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

Mission to Skopje
Head of Mission: Ambassador Clemens Koja
Budget	
Staff	

OSCE Mission to Skopje | Facebook

€6,506,100 (Unified Budget),

OSCE_Skopje (@OSCE_Skopje) | Twitter

€1,110,700 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

OSCE Mission to Skopje | YouTube

38 international, 116 local

Head of Mission: Clemens Koja (@KojaClemens) | Twitter

www.osce.org/mission-to-skopje

In 2021, the OSCE Mission to Skopje continued to support reforms contributing to judicial
independence, media freedom, community rights, democratization and police professionalization,
while also working to strengthen Parliament and improve electoral processes. The Mission
assisted further implementation of the Ohrid Framework Agreement and followed security-related
developments in the country.

B R I N G I N G P O LI C E C LO S E R T O PE O PLE

security concerns. The police officers in charge of councils
were trained in community dialogue and delivery of joint

In 2021, the OSCE Mission to Skopje continued to support

preventive actions involving multiple actors such as local

reforms contributing to judicial independence, media

community representatives, municipalities, police and other

freedom, community rights, democratization and police

institutions responsible for community services. The Mission

professionalization, while also working to strengthen

also raised awareness of the police prevention function

Parliament, improve electoral processes and address

through open days, where citizens were invited to tour police

transnational threats. The Mission assisted further

stations throughout North Macedonia.

implementation of the Ohrid Framework Agreement and
followed security-related developments in the country.

The Mission organized a workshop for police with women
from remote areas, who shared their security concerns and

Due to COVID-19 restrictions, police communication with

suggested possible solutions to safety threats affecting their

local communities has been limited since the start of

communities. The Mission also supported artistic workshops,

the pandemic. To address this gap, the Mission helped

sports activities and other crime prevention events for youth

to revitalize Local Prevention Councils, which consist of

in several regions of the country.

mayors, police officers and citizens and address specific local

Meeting for alumni of the Mentoring Programme for Women in Police held on 30 November and 1 December 2021 in Skopje. (OSCE/Naser Nagavci)

52

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

Dialogue between citizens and the Regional Police Sector of Kumanovo, North Macedonia, on Police Prevention Day, 9 December 2021.
(OSCE/Naser Nagavci)

S U PP O R T I N G WO M E N I N T H E P O LI C E

Male Engagement for Gender Equality

To support women police officers and enhance female
representation in the male-dominated police, in 2021

In 2021, the Mission promoted male engagement for

the Mission completed a multi-year mentoring initiative

gender equality throughout the OSCE with an online

to help young female police officers to recognize and

discussion about how men can help advance gender

overcome professional obstacles and to identify and pursue

equality in the workplace and how a more diverse

opportunities to advance their careers. Since 2017, 106

and inclusive workforce benefits both women and

women have participated in this programme; so far, two have

men. Some 65 staff from across the Organization

been promoted to higher commanding positions, and several

as well as 49 representatives from the delegations

others have moved from administration to police service.

of OSCE participating States, local embassies and
national and international partner organizations

The police leadership has recognized the programme’s

took part in the discussion, which provided a how-

success and supports its institutionalization. In 2020, the

to for men and women, including organizational

Mission conducted a self-evaluation of the programme

leaders, who want to be intentional and inclusive

involving 87 police officials, including nine men. To ensure

allies in working for gender equality.

continuity and a successful transfer to local ownership, in
2021 the Mission delivered a series of workshops for the core
team who will be in charge of implementing the programme
within the Ministry of Internal Affairs.

The Mission helped the Council of Media Ethics to develop
and promote its Ethical Guidelines for Online Media, which

S T R E N G T H E N I N G I N C LU S I V E A N D
R E S P O N S I B LE J O U R N A LI S M

complement the Code of Journalists and serve as guidelines
for self-regulating internet-based news media and enhancing
independent and professional reporting in the online
domain.

The media have an important responsibility to reflect
the whole population in all of its diversity. To increase

To recognize and honour professional journalism, the

inclusiveness in media reporting and help build a journalistic

Mission co-organized a competition to award the writers of

workforce that reflects media audiences and their interests,

the best journalistic stories on the experiences of vulnerable

the Mission supported a course on the importance of

and marginalized groups during the coronavirus pandemic.

promoting and respecting fundamental rights, intercultural

Through this initiative, the Mission and the Council of Media

dialogue and anti-discriminatory practices to prevent harmful

Ethics encouraged and inspired consistent and high-quality

stereotypes in media reporting for journalists working in

journalism that fairly represents and includes viewpoints and

various news media throughout the country.

perspectives of diverse groups in society.

53

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

“​ MY MISSION IS TO CHANGE THE WAY THINGS
ARE DONE”
Maja is one of 106 women who have so far participated
in the Programme, which builds self-confidence and
professional skills for both mentees and mentors.
As a mentor, Maja is happy to share her own experience
to help her mentee learn to manage her everyday tasks
efficiently and establish and maintain work-life balance in
a very demanding profession. Maja is in constant contact
with her mentee, always ready to listen when she faces
difficulties and needs support.
Participating in the Mentoring Programme has
strengthened Maja’s sense of female solidarity. “I will fight
for gender equality”, she says with determination. “My
mission is to change the way things are done.”
Maja is not just talking about changing attitudes toward
women in the police so that they have equal opportunities
to succeed and advance, though that is certainly a key part
of her goal. However, she also wants to promote positive
effects in the communities where female officers work.
“I try to encourage my female colleagues to be more
visible in their communities”, Maja says, particularly since
female officers are often able to ease communication
and interaction between the public and the police. But
that’s not all. “Citizens demand that the police respect
the law and conclude their cases without gender bias or
prejudice”, Maja states. “Our citizens expect quick results
and equal treatment of victims of domestic violence and
other types of crime.”
Commander Maja Stojanovska in her office at the Kisela Voda Police
Station in Skopje. (OSCE/Naser Nagavci)

Police units with mentors and mentees have seen positive
changes in their climate, with improved teamwork, greater
cohesiveness, greater awareness of gender-related issues

Since graduating from the Police Training Center in 2003,

and empowerment of young female officers. The police

Maja Stojanovska has worked her way up through the

leadership has recognized the Mentoring Programme’s

ranks, and she now serves as Commander of the Kisela

positive impact, and in 2021, the OSCE Mission and

Voda Police Station in Skopje. In a profession traditionally

the Ministry of Internal Affairs began the process of

considered to be for men, Maja had to overcome many

institutionalizing the Programme in the human resource

challenges along her career path, including gender bias

system of the police.

and stereotyping. That is a big part of the reason that she
is an enthusiastic participant in the Mission to Skopje’s

Maja offers a final word of encouragement to young

Mentoring Programme for Women in Police, which was

female officers: “Be brave, be self-confident, take on the

launched in 2017 to help young women navigate the male-

challenge, be consistent and never give up!”

dominated working environment of the police, overcome
obstacles, and make the most of opportunities for
professional advancement.
“I feel that I carry a burden on my back”, Maja says. “Many
eyes are on me. I have paved the way for other colleagues
to resist gender bias in the future.”

54

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Centre in Ashgabat
Head of Centre: Ambassador John MacGregor
Budget	

€1,661,200 (Unified Budget),
€119,954 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

6 international, 23 local

Head of Centre:
John S MacGregor (@Amb_MacGregor) | Twitter

www.osce.org/centre-in-ashgabat

Despite the ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic, the OSCE Centre in Ashgabat expanded its efforts to
combat transnational threats and strengthen border management, foster economic connectivity and
good environmental practices, and promote respect for human rights, gender equality and media
development. Some of its most innovative projects addressed cyber/ICT security, women’s economic
empowerment and smart cities. The Centre also stepped up its assistance to tackling challenges
caused by the global pandemic.

A DVA N C I N G C Y B E R / I C T S E C U R I T Y

“We are very pleased that this initiative is progressing
so well,” said John MacGregor, Head of the OSCE Centre

The Centre’s co-operation with the Turkmenistan Institute

in Ashgabat. “It will contribute to the Government of

of Telecommunications and Informatics yielded its first

Turkmenistan’s efforts to meet a major emerging security

significant result in 2021: the establishment of a Centre of

challenge and strengthen the country’s cyber/ICT security in

Excellence on Cybersecurity. With state-of-the-art facilities,

an era of rapidly developing digital technologies.”

the Centre of Excellence provides a platform for sharing
international good practices in countering cyberthreats and
strengthens Turkmenistan’s educational and methodological
basis in the field of information security and communication

U N LO C K I N G T H E P O T E N T I A L O F
R E N E WA B LE E N E RG Y

technologies. It will build the capacities of teachers, increase
students’ knowledge and provide advanced training for both

Promoting energy security and renewable energy and

public and private sector cyber specialists.

supporting Turkmenistan in fulfilling its commitments to

Participants in a training course on new trends and challenges in combating trafficking in illicit drugs and precursors take part in a practical exercise,
Ashgabat, 12 July 2021. (OSCE)

55

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

Students at the Institute of International Relations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan taking part in a lecture series for future
diplomats on inclusive security, effective negotiations and the role of women in diplomacy organized by the OSCE Centre in Ashgabat, 9 December
2021. (courtesy of the Institute of International Relations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan)

reduce carbon dioxide emissions and introduce green
technologies are among the Centre’s priorities in the

PRO M O T I N G T H E RO LE O F WO M E N I N
F O S T E R I N G PE AC E A N D T RU S T

economic and environmental dimension of security. As
part of the Centre’s support for implementation of the

As part of its efforts to promote gender equality, the Centre

State Programme for Energy Saving 2018–2024, hydro-

organized a Central Asia Forum in co-operation with the

meteorological stations will be installed in all five regions

Government of Turkmenistan and with the support of the

of Turkmenistan. These digital technologies will identify

OSCE Secretariat’s Gender Issues Programme and the Office

wind and solar energy resources in various locations in

for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) to

Turkmenistan and transmit relevant data to a central

facilitate inclusive dialogue on women’s contributions to

database. The data will be analysed and used for measuring

promoting security and trust.

wind and solar energy potential.

Participants from the five Central Asian countries and
Afghanistan discussed women’s participation in political and

“The collected data will serve as a base for the development

public life and in the security sector and their role in fostering

of a solar and wind cadastre, a compilation of renewable

economic prosperity and protecting human rights.

energy sources that offer an ecological solution to climate
change and potential security risks stemming from it,” said

“The Forum offers an excellent platform for discussions,

Esger Atayev, Senior Scientific Researcher at the Renewable

which will facilitate the development of unified approaches

Energy Research and Production Centre of the Turkmen State

to addressing gender-related issues and will contribute to

Energy Institute. “Outfitting our Research and Production

the strengthening of peace and security by ensuring gender

Centre with modern hydro-meteorological stations is a large-

equality,” said Gulshat Mammedova, Chairperson of the

scale project of national importance, the implementation of

Mejlis (lower chamber) of the Milli Gengesh (parliament) of

which is a sustainable and highly relevant contribution of the

Turkmenistan.

OSCE Centre to the development of the renewable energy
sector of Turkmenistan.”

The Forum also supported implementation of Turkmenistan’s
National Action Plan on Gender Equality 2021–2025 and
activities organized as part of the International Year of Peace
and Trust declared by the United Nations at Turkmenistan’s
initiative.

56

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

PROGRAMME OFFICE
IN BISHKEK
Head of Office: Ambassador Alexey Rogov
Budget	

€6,811,000 (Unified Budget),
€901,641 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure,

Staff	

OSCE Programme Office in Bishkek | Facebook

including the OSCE Academy in Bishkek)

OSCEBishkek (@oscebishkek) | Twitter

13 international, 110 local

Programme Office in Bishkek (@oscebishkek) | Instagram

www.osce.org/programme-office-in-bishkek

In 2021, the Programme Office in Bishkek implemented programmatic activities in accordance with
its mandate and planned within the framework of an annual consultative mechanism in response to
Kyrgyzstan’s priorities and in co-operation with state institutions, international organizations and
civil society. The Programme Office supported Kyrgyzstan in advancing security sector governance,
fostering economic development of the country’s regions, combating corruption and promoting
digitalization, facilitating justice and electoral reforms, addressing climate change, countering
transnational threats and promoting gender equality.

S U PP O R T I N G WO M E N ’ S P O LI T I C A L
PA R T I C I PAT I O N
In its effort to promote gender equality and women’s
empowerment, the Programme Office puts special focus
on supporting implementation of a 2019 law requiring a
minimum 30 per cent quota for women in Kyrgyzstan’s local
councils, which was adopted with the Programme Office’s
multi-year comprehensive support. In 2020–2021, the
Programme Office provided training for 242 women on the
fight against gender stereotypes in politics, public speaking,
political leadership and electoral legislation. In April 2021,
73 per cent of these women ran in local council elections,
and 60 per cent of those who ran won a seat. Women now
account for 39 per cent of local council members nationwide,
an increase from 10 per cent in 2016.

STRENGTHENING BORDER
M A N AG E M E N T A N D PRO M O T I N G
BORDER SECURIT Y
The Programme Office provides comprehensive support
for implementation of the Advance Passenger Information /
Passenger Name Record (API/PNR) system, which is designed
to prevent the movement of foreign terrorist fighters and
ensure effective border management and security. In 2021,
following its successful implementation of the API/PNR system,
Kyrgyzstan was appointed Chair of the first OSCE Eastern
European Informal Working Group on Passenger Data. The
Working Group provides a forum for passenger information

A customs officer trains a dog at Kyrgyzstan’s newly accredited World
Customs Organization Regional Dog Training Centre, which was
supported by the OSCE Programme Office in Bishkek. (OSCE/Chyngyz
Zhanybekov)

57

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

units and policymakers to support implementation of OSCE
Ministerial Council Decision 6/16 on enhancing the use of API
(2016) and relevant UN Security Council resolutions on threats
to international peace and security.
In November 2021, thanks to the Programme Office’s multiyear efforts to facilitate regional cross-border and customs
co-operation, the Training Centre of the State Customs Service
of the Kyrgyz Republic was accredited as a World Customs
Organization Regional Dog Training Centre. Canine training
unit staff from customs services across the region now
can acquire skills in line with international standards, thus
strengthening regional cross-border customs co-operation.

Sadyr Japarov, President of Kyrgyzstan, and Alexey Rogov, Head of the
OSCE Programme Office in Bishkek, shake hands at an official meeting,
2 August 2021. (Press Services of the Presidential Administration of the

S U PP O R T I N G E N T R E PR E N E U R S H I P
In 2021, the Programme Office launched Kyrgyzstan’s first
full-fledged online mini Master of Business Administration
course. The course equips entrepreneurs, particularly those

Republic of Kyrgyzstan)

PRO M O T I N G YO U T H PA R T I C I PAT I O N
I N E N V I RO N M E N TA L I S S U E S

in remote areas, with business planning and management
skills, thus helping to develop small and medium-sized

The Programme Office co-organized Kyrgyzstan’s first

enterprises. This is especially important in light of the

inclusive youth conference on the future economy – “green”,

negative economic impact of COVID-19.

“creative” and “digital” – with 1,290 young people and persons
with disabilities from across the country participating. The

The Programme Office also continued to implement its

event included an upcycling fair, where local designers,

women’s economic empowerment programme, which

some of whom employ persons with disabilities, presented

enables women to launch their own businesses and become

repurposed and eco-products. The Programme Office

financially independent. In 2021, 40 women from Batken

also conducted capacity-building events on environmental

and Issyk-Kul provinces were coached by experts from

protection for 3,013 schoolchildren and university students

Programme Office–supported Entrepreneurship Support

throughout the country and supported train-the-trainer

Centres in preparing business plans, and 30 of the women

courses for 90 schoolteachers who will deliver classes on

received in-kind support from the Programme Office to

environmental issues in schools across the country.

launch businesses, thus creating jobs and contributing to
sustainable economic development across these provinces.

OSCE ACADEMY IN BISHKEK
www.osce-academy.net

The OSCE Academy in Bishkek is the OSCE’s flagship
higher education and research institution, providing
high-quality postgraduate education to young
people from Central Asia, Afghanistan, Mongolia
and beyond. With two master’s programmes,
professional training and research projects
promoting peace and stability, the Academy
strengthens connectivity in the region. It also hosts
a summer school, specialized seminars and visits by
guest lecturers. Since its founding in 2002, the OSCE
Academy has graduated 554 master’s students.
OSCE Academy | Facebook
OSCE Academy (@OSCE_Academy) / Twitter
OSCE Academy (@osceacademy) | Instagram
Participants in Kyrgyzstan’s first inclusive youth conference on the

OSCE Academy in Bishkek: Overview | LinkedIn

future economy, Bishkek, 29 October 2021. (OSCE/Ranat Rysbek kyzy)

58

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP – A FORCE FOR CHANGE

Ainura Omorova, Chairperson of the Saruu Village Council, discussing the 30 per cent quota at a press café organized by the Programme Office
in Bishkek, November 2019. (OSCE/Chyngyz Zhanybekov)

Winter mornings are late, and it’s still dark when Ainura

“Women are very responsible and meticulous, which is

Omorova leaves for work in the village of Saruu in

especially helpful during council sessions when we try

Kyrgyzstan, where she heads the district hospital’s

to ensure gender-sensitive budgeting,” Ainura told the

infectious diseases department. Her day starts early, and

Grodno Forum of Women Leaders organized by ODIHR in

she apologizes when she wakes her patients to examine

2019.

them.
Ainura shared her inspiring story with women from
Last year, COVID-19 was a game changer. The sudden

Kyrgyzstan participating in Leadership Schools organized

influx of patients, a shortage of hospital beds, sick doctors,

by the Programme Office in 2020 and 2021, urging them to

exhausted nurses, shortages of drugs and medical

rid themselves of doubts, to stay focused and to work hard

equipment, and no idea of when the situation would

for their communities.

improve – all of this tested Ainura’s limits, but she fought
for her patients every day.

This is exactly what Ainura has been doing as chair of
her village council. Under her leadership, the council

Maybe because she’s a fighter, maybe because of her

completely renovated classrooms and repaired the wiring

dedication to helping people, or maybe because of her late

and fencing at one school, which had not been done since

husband’s support, Ainura decided to participate in the

Soviet times; installed new boilers in another school so

September 2019 local council elections. She was elected,

that children can stay warm during class; widened and

and not for the first time, but it was the first time she was

paved Saruu’s narrow streets; and installed 110 new

elected through the minimum 30 per cent gender quota

streetlights to keep them illuminated and safe.

for local council elections adopted and signed into law one
month earlier, thanks in part to years of comprehensive

“We have KGS 4 million [c. EUR 42,000] left that we plan to

support by the OSCE Programme Office in Bishkek. Ainura

spend on construction of a new small hydroelectric power

and eight other women won nine, or 43 per cent, of the

plant, and also to build a facility that creates small artificial

council’s 21 seats.

glaciers by the riverside up in the mountains that would
create extra water flow during the dry summer months,”

In April 2021, thousands of other women won seats in

says Ainura, aiming to fully disburse the council’s funds by

some 420 local councils across Kyrgyzstan. Thanks to the

year-end.

gender quota, today women occupy 39 per cent of seats
across 452 local councils, and 43 of them, including Ainura,

At 9:00 p.m. Ainura finishes her hospital work and drives to

chair councils.

a council session, which will run until midnight. On her way,
a nurse phones: one of Ainura’s patients’ blood tests are not
good. Ainura says she will swing by again in the morning.

59

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

Programme Office
in Dushanbe
Head of Office: Ambassador Valeriu Chiveri
Budget 	

€7,311,600 (Unified Budget),
€2,920,221 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

26 international, 156 local (including 40 under

OSCE Programme Office in Dushanbe | Facebook

extrabudgetary projects)

Head of Programme Office: Valeriu Chiveri | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/programme-office-in-dushanbe

In 2021, the OSCE Programme Office in Dushanbe continued its efforts to respond to the challenging
circumstances caused by the global COVID-19 pandemic and to carry out planned programmatic
activities in various formats. The Programme Office supported Tajikistan in responding to the
emerging threats emanating from neighbouring Afghanistan, promoting economic opportunities
for women and youth, and ensuring the rights of vulnerable groups. It also paved the way for a new
phase of the joint OSCE–EU initiative aimed at building the capacity of border troops.

BORDER SECURIT Y AND
T R A N S N AT I O N A L T H R E AT S

of the OSCE Programme Office in Dushanbe to border
stabilization and security,” said Colonel-General Rajabali
Rahmonali, Commander of the Border Troops of Tajikistan.

The Programme Office responded to the volatile security

“Its project to support the stabilization of Tajikistan’s southern

environment along the border with Afghanistan by

border region with Afghanistan is highly valued and timely

implementing a comprehensive training programme for

support in the current challenging situation.”

Tajikistan’s Border Troops. Some 945 border officers benefited
from training in operational and tactical planning, command
and control, patrolling, first aid in combat operations,
mountaineering techniques and canine detection services. To

E CO N O M I C E M P OW E R M E N T O F
WO M E N A N D YO U T H

ensure progress towards gender equality and implementation
of human rights commitments, gender awareness and respect

The participation of women and youth in economic life

for human rights were mainstreamed in all training exercises.

makes an important contribution to a sustainable economy.

“The Tajik Border Troops highly appreciate the contribution

Yet, they often face barriers to capital, markets, property

Tajik border officers at the graduation ceremony for a training course on operational planning, Khujand, 13 May 2021. (OSCE/Farhod Nabiyulloev)

60

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

ownership and inheritance rights, and they may be barred
from some types of employment or face employment
discrimination. To address these challenges, as well as the
post-pandemic recovery, the Programme Office promoted
the participation of women and youth in initiatives to
increase employment opportunities and build accountability
and transparency in economic development. In partnership
with government and civil society, the Programme Office
provided training in tourism development, business and
digital skills and financial literacy for 100 women and 135
men in 2021. “This training gave us the necessary knowledge
and expertise to open our own homestay business,” said
Furugh Shakarmamadova, a business development training

Inna Zdanovič (left) from Lithuania, Sirarpi Ohanyan from Armenia and

participant. The Programme Office also held workshops and

Anastasiia Marchuk from Ukraine with their diplomas from the BMSC’s

training sessions for 60 women and 40 men on how youth
and women can help combat corruption.

one-year postgraduate course in border security and management for
senior leaders, Dushanbe, 19 November 2021. (OSCE/Nozim Kalandarov)​

PRO M O T I N G T H E R I G H T S O F PE R S O N S
W I T H D I S A B I LI T I E S

BORDER MANAGEMENT STAFF COLLEGE

Since Tajikistan signed the UN Convention on the Rights of

A flagship OSCE regional initiative, the Border

Persons with Disabilities in 2018, the Programme Office has

Management Staff College (BMSC) has been

supported the country’s efforts to advance its ratification.

providing specialized training, intensive one-

The Office assisted government and civil society stakeholders

month courses and one-year postgraduate diploma

with the drafting of a road map for ratification, and has

courses on border security for senior and mid-

raised awareness about the Convention and the rights of

level professionals since 1999. Over the years, 1,839

persons with disabilities throughout Tajikistan. In 2021, the

border security management officials – including

Programme Office convened, together with the Ministry of

805 women – from 48 OSCE participating States, 11

Health and the Union of People with Disabilities, nationwide

Partners for Co-operation and 8 non-OSCE countries

round tables involving local authorities and disability rights

have taken part in BMSC courses. In 2021, despite

organizations to discuss implementation of the State

pandemic conditions, the Staff College delivered its

Programme on an Accessible Environment 2021–2025. The

programmes in full using online, hybrid and face-

Programme was adopted in February 2021 with the Office’s

to-face modalities. Lola Ramonova, a graduate

support as part of Tajikistan’s road map towards ratification

of a one-month staff course held in March 2021,

of the Convention. One outcome of the round-table debates

said that she especially enjoyed the efforts of

was an assessment of the accessibility of various public

the experts and organizers to bring together all

places for persons with disabilities.

participants in practical exercises, group research

www.oscebmsc.org

work, round-table discussions and field study trips.

Participants in an OSCE-supported course to train women to become mountain guides trekking in Tajikistan’s Gaznok Mountains, 26 June 2021.
(OSCE/Violeta Velkoska)

61

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

Programme Office
in Nur-Sultan	
Head of Office: Dr. Volker Frobarth
Budget	

€2,232,700 (Unified Budget),
€161,666 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

6 international, 22 local

Head of Programme Office: Volker Frobarth | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/programme-office-in-nur-sultan

In 2021, the OSCE Programme Office in Nur-Sultan built upon lessons learned from the COVID-19
pandemic and fostered closer ties with government, civil society, academia, the private sector and
the international community. An overarching focus of its engagement with the host country was
supporting the presidential reform agenda across all three security dimensions. The Programme
Office also continued its extrabudgetary project on police reform and launched a new multi-year
extrabudgetary project to support reforms in the justice sector.

TAC K LI N G T R A F F I C K I N G I N H U M A N
BEINGS

labour inspectorates, migration authorities, prosecutorial
offices, NGOs and public social services in co-operation with
the Almaty Police Academy and the Office of the OSCE Special

“Unconventional” and “practical” are the most common

Representative and Co-ordinator for Countering Trafficking in

terms participants used to describe the second national live

Human Beings. The exercise offered front-line responders the

simulation exercise on combating human trafficking along

opportunity to simulate real-life anti-trafficking responses,

migration routes. The Office organized this week-long training

using actors to create scenarios of human trafficking for

for some 30 professionals from law enforcement agencies,

labour and sexual exploitation.

Members of the prosecutors’ team co-ordinating oversight activities in the second national live simulation exercise on combating human trafficking
along migration routes, Almaty, 15 October 2021. (OSCE/Kunsulu Demeuova)

62

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

The signing of an agreement to donate UAVs to Altyn-Emel National Park, Baschi village, Almaty province, 18 September 2021. (OSCE/Aziz Nurbekov)

“After the role play, police and prosecution can better relate

in areas with poor roads. The poachers are often better

to the difficulties social workers face. It also promotes the

equipped than park rangers, and these UAVs tip the

importance of information-sharing and mutual support,”

technological edge in favour of the rangers. This co-operation

said one of the participants. Five video modules and 36 video

will reduce poaching of rare and endangered animals in

lessons aimed to strengthen the criminal justice response

Kazakhstan.

and build the capacity of law enforcement. These materials
will be used as part of the education curricula for distance
learning of the Law Enforcement Agencies Academy under

SUPPORTING LOCAL SELF- GOVERNANCE

the Prosecutor General’s Office.
As part of its efforts to support the presidential reform

PROMOTING GOOD GOV E R N A NCE A ND
S AV I N G E N DA N G E R E D W I LD LI F E

agenda to promote good governance and democratic
development in Kazakhstan, the Office, in co-operation
with the Ministry for Information and Social Development
as well as other partners, conducted a series of seminars

As part of its multi-year efforts to promote good governance

to help strengthen the role and capacity of maslikhats (local

by focusing on combating wildlife poaching, the Office

self-governance bodies). Targeting some 800 mostly newly

donated specialized unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to

elected deputies from all 14 of Kazakhstan’s provinces and

the Environmental Ministry’s East Kazakhstan territorial

its three major cities – Almaty, Nur-Sultan and Shymkent –

inspectorate and the Altyn-Emel National Park. These UAVs

the seminars offered sessions on the main competencies

are capable of performing a variety of tasks – from tracking

of deputies and their rights, duties and responsibilities in

poachers in remote areas and monitoring wildlife species, to

exercising their powers in accordance with the relevant

controlling forest fires. Training in use of the UAVs has also

legislation. They also examined best practices for civic

been provided.

engagement in decision-making processes at the local level
and highlighted the importance of ensuring the accessibility

This donated equipment is being used for a range of

of budget information and promoting opportunities to

monitoring activities, greatly improving the ability of the

introduce open budget data in the country’s regions.

authorities to combat poachers in difficult terrain and
63

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

YOUTH LEADING THE WAY
TOWARDS A GREEN ECONOMY

Saule Agatayeva addresses the eighth session of the Central Asian Leadership Programme, Almaty, 13 September 2017. (CAREC)

“For me, ‘green economy’ is a lifestyle, mindfulness in

Regional Environmental Centre for Central Asia, the UN

consumption and a step towards shaping an agenda

Environment Programme, the Office of the Co-ordinator

for sustainable development,” says Saule Agatayeva.

of OSCE Economic and Environmental Activities, the

In 2017, Saule participated in the eighth session of the

World Bank and the European Union. The focus was

Central Asian Leadership Programme (CALP) for young

on sustainable consumption and production and their

environmentalists from Central Asia and Afghanistan,

relation to food supply and security. Participants heard

and since 2019, she has been a member of the organizing

from experts on green economies, the transition towards

committee of its alumni/ae network in Kazakhstan.

low-carbon development, sustainable water management
and biodiversity conservation.

Participation in CALP increased Saule’s knowledge about

64

green economies and sustainable development, water

Saule sees great potential in the CALP alumni/ae network.

resource management and the nexus of water, food,

After 12 years, “there is a huge group of CALP graduates

energy and ecosystems. She also developed leadership

and professional expertise.” What’s more, “we are one

skills. Saule believes her new expertise will enable her to

family, and we have similar values.” She wants to get these

increase youth’s role in regional co-operation in promoting

young leaders from across the region involved in joint

environmentalism and sustainable development. She is

projects and communication campaigns – to promote

committed to organizing regular outdoor activities and

environmentally friendly attitudes, the principles of

public talks to foster eco-friendly behaviours and build

sustainable development and environmentally friendly

environmental knowledge and capacities among Central

purchases such as locally produced eco-products or

Asian youth leaders.

organic food – to build a green community.

In 2021, 38 participants from government agencies, green

“Sometimes when I reflect and assess the work that’s

businesses, civil society organizations and academia

been done, how programmes and projects positively

in Central Asia and Afghanistan took part in the 12th

influence people, the environment and communities, then

annual CALP session, which was organized by the OSCE

I understand that it’s not in vain,” says Saule, “and for a

Programme Office in Nur-Sultan in partnership with the

minute or two I feel part of a global movement.”

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

Project Co-ordinator in
Uzbekistan
Project Co-ordinator: Ambassador Pierre von Arx
OSCE Project Co-ordinator in Uzbekistan | Facebook
Budget	
Staff	

€2,499,200 (Unified Budget),
€3 29,773 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

OSCE Project Co-ordinator in Uzbekistan
(@OSCE_PCUZ) | Twitter

4 international, 36 local

Project Co-ordinator: Pierre von Arx | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/project-coordinator-in-uzbekistan

In 2021, the OSCE Project Co-ordinator in Uzbekistan supported the host country’s efforts to promote
cyber/ICT security, rehabilitate and reintegrate families of foreign terrorist fighters, increase
women’s employment and entrepreneurship, and advance the rights of persons with disabilities
among its wide range of activities in all three security dimensions.

PRO M O T I N G C Y B E R / I C T S E C U R I T Y

in these activities “enabled our colleagues to improve their
skills in cybersecurity and acquire new information and

The effectiveness of measures to address threats posed by

knowledge,” said a Ministry of Defence official. “We believe

the criminal use of cyberspace and rapidly developing ICT

this project is timely and useful for technical specialists

technologies depends on collaboration among government,

responsible for ensuring information security of enterprises

civil society, business, academia and citizens. In 2021, the

and agencies.”

Office of the Project Co-ordinator, together with the NGO
Softline Education and with the support of Uzbekistan’s
Ministry for Development of Information Technologies and
Communications, launched the Cybersecurity Competence
Centre. The Centre offers training seminars to build the

R EHABILITATING AND R E INTEGR ATING
FAMILIE S OF FOR E IGN TER ROR IS T
FIGHTER S

capacity of IT specialists from government and the private
sector on the technical and legal aspects of ICT security,

The Project Co-ordinator promotes whole-of-society and

including OSCE confidence-building measures to reduce the

whole-of-government approaches to the challenges of

risk of conflict stemming from the use of ICTs. Participation

rehabilitating and reintegrating the families of foreign

Training on social integration and rehabilitation of families of foreign terrorist fighters returning from Syria and Iraq, with the participation of local
authorities, law enforcement agencies and local communities. Nurafshan, 13 September 2021. (OSCE/Anna Antipina)

65

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Coozin baking workshop in Samarkand, 27–28 November 2021. (OSCE/Murod Khusanov)

terrorist fighters returning to Uzbekistan. In 2021, the Project

and delivery couriers. By August 2021, more than 60 women

Co-ordinator convened a series of capacity-building seminars

were using the platform to earn an income. “Thanks to the

in 11 of Uzbekistan’s regions to improve co-operation among

Coozin project, I gained the chance to realize my culinary

state and non-state actors responsible for rehabilitating

potential, make my pastry dreams come true and delight

and reintegrating returnees from Syria and Iraq. With over

customers with new and delicious dishes,” says Elvira. “Plus,

500 participants, the seminars facilitated dialogue and the

now I have an additional source of income.”

sharing of experiences in preventing and countering violent
extremism and radicalization that can lead to terrorism.
“Based on our experience, I would like to assure those who
are sceptical about the return of their citizens that the results

S UPPORTING THE R IG HT S OF PE R SON S
WITH DI S A B ILITIE S

achieved through rehabilitation processes are convincing,”
said Oliya Ilmuradova, director of the NGO Barkaror Hayot.

Since 2019, the Project Co-ordinator has been supporting

However, “rehabilitation processes are very fragile. They

the rights of persons with disabilities and working to

require constant daily attention by dozens of specialists. In

improve their conditions and opportunities. In 2021, when

some cases,” she stressed, “it may take us several years to

Uzbekistan ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons

fully reintegrate people into society. We should be ready to

with Disabilities, the Project Co-ordinator launched a podcast

accompany them on this difficult path.”

series to promote awareness of persons with disabilities and
organizations that support them. The Project Co-ordinator

S U PP O R T I N G WO M E N ’ S E M PLOY M E N T
A N D E N T R E PR E N E U R S H I P

also provided training for monitoring the physical accessibility
of courts and other public buildings, and teamed up with a
local disability rights organization to provide employment
consultants for persons with disabilities and inclusive

The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the challenges women

employers.

face in participating in the economy, yet it has also triggered

66

the development of new digital technologies for use in

The Project Co-ordinator also supports the political

everyday life that could play a role in economic development

participation of persons with disabilities, translating ODIHR

and job creation in the post-pandemic recovery. The Project

materials into Uzbek to help raise awareness of the rights

Co-ordinator has been supporting women’s self-employment

of persons with disabilities, providing training on political

through the use of digital tools. For example, the winner of a

participation, and fostering dialogue and co-operation

national contest to accelerate women’s start-up initiatives, a

between political parties and organizations supporting

digital platform called Coozin that enables women with zero

persons with disabilities. After participating in OSCE training,

investments to become entrepreneurs in the homemade-

Ulugbek Mamatxonov joined the Liberal Democratic Party,

food delivery business, received support to develop its

which is known as a movement for entrepreneurs, as its

concept. Coozin quickly transformed from an idea into an

first blind member. He plans to advocate for employment of

active platform with mobile applications for cooks, customers

persons with disabilities in the private sector.
O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

INSTITUTIONS
The OSCE includes three institutions dedicated to specialized areas of work: the Office
for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights promotes democratic development and
human rights; the High Commissioner on National Minorities uses quiet diplomacy
and early action to seek resolution of ethnic tensions that might endanger peace and
security; and the Representative on Freedom of the Media monitors media
developments and provides early warning on violations of freedom of expression and
media freedom.

The OSCE and its institutions promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedoms of expression and assembly.
(Shutterstock/Eugenio Marongiu)

67

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

Office for Democratic Institutions
and Human Rights
Director: Matteo Mecacci
Budget	

€16,394,000 (Unified Budget),
€4,277,417 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

85 international,
68 local (including 27 under extrabudgetary
projects)

OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and
Human Rights (ODIHR) | Facebook
OSCE/ODIHR (@osce_odihr) | Twitter
OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and
Human Rights (ODIHR): Overview | LinkedIn
Director: Matteo Mecacci (@MatteoMecacci) | Twitter
Matteo Mecacci | LinkedIn
Matteo Mecacci (@matteomecacci) | Instagram

As the OSCE’s main human dimension institution, the Warsaw-based Office for Democratic
Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) provides support, assistance and expertise to governments
and civil society in OSCE participating States to promote democracy, the rule of law, human rights,
tolerance and non-discrimination, as well as attention to the rights of Roma and Sinti. 

“The year 2021 was a special one for ODIHR. We

states from Canada to Mongolia covering the gamut

celebrated the 30th anniversary since the Office was

of ODIHR’s mandate, from rule of law to countering

set up to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and

discrimination, meant that our efforts made real

respect for human rights in the OSCE region. We also

impact in people’s lives across the region.” 

marked the milestone of 400 election observations,
and our hate crime data set was published for the

ODIHR Director Matteo Mecacci

15th year running. Our ongoing assistance to OSCE

Participants in ODIHR’s 30th-anniversary conference. Warsaw, 15 October 2021. (OSCE/Piotr Markovski)

68

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

2021 elections with
ODIHR observation activities
Early Presidential Election,
10 January 2021, Kyrgyzstan, LEOM
Parliamentary Elections,
10 January 2021, Kazakhstan, LEOM
Presidential Election,
24 January 2021, Portugal, EET
Parliamentary Elections,
17 March 2021, Netherlands, EET
Parliamentary Elections,
A voter's fingerprint is scanned in a polling station during North
Macedonia's local elections. Skopje, 17 October 2021.
(OSCE/Ulvi Akhundlu)

4 April 2021, Bulgaria, LEOM
Parliamentary Elections,
25 April 2021, Albania, LEOM
Parliamentary Elections,

H E LPI N G PA R LI A M E N T S B E CO M E
GENDER-SENSITIVE INSTITUTIONS
Malta’s parliament invited ODIHR to conduct a gender audit
following a 2020 reform designed to increase women’s

30 May 2021, Cyprus, EET
Presidential Election,
9 June 2021, Mongolia, SEAM
Early Parliamentary Elections,

parliamentary representation. The parliament designated

20 June 2021, Armenia, EOM

a specific committee responsible for the implementation of

Early Parliamentary Elections,

the gender audit recommendations, which aimed to make
the parliament better at mainstreaming gender in all its

11 July 2021, Bulgaria, LEOM

lawmaking and oversight processes, and at promoting a

Early Parliamentary Elections,

gender-sensitive working culture overall.

11 July 2021, Moldova, EOM

ODIHR conducted a gender assessment of the North
Macedonian parliament together with the OSCE Mission to

Early Federal Elections,
20 September 2021, Canada, EET

Skopje, and subsequently supported a workshop in which

Parliamentary Elections,

MPs and parliamentary staff discussed gender-sensitive

26 September 2021, Germany, EET

lawmaking, how to engage men and civil society in this
process and changes to the rules of procedure needed in
this area. ODIHR also assisted the parliament in preparing its
Gender Action Plan for 2022–2023.
Based on its 2021 survey of all parliaments in the OSCE area,
ODIHR developed a step-by-step guide on gender-sensitive

Parliamentary Elections,
8–9 October 2021, Czech Republic, EET
Local Elections,
2 and 30 October 2021, Georgia, EOM
Presidential Election,

parliaments to assist countries in carrying out further hands-

24 October 2021, Uzbekistan, EOM

on work across the OSCE region.

Local Elections,
17 and 31 October 2021, North Macedonia, EOM

E LE C T I O N O B S E RVAT I O N I N
C H A LLE N G I N G C I RC U M S TA N C E S
Despite the difficulties presented by the ongoing COVID-19
pandemic, ODIHR continued its election activities, deploying
observers to 19 elections in 16 participating States in
2021 to support democratic rights and freedoms through
credible election observation. Through collaborative
dialogue between ODIHR and OSCE participating States
about protecting the health and safety of observers and

Presidential and Early Parliamentary Elections,
14 November 2021, Bulgaria, EAM
Parliamentary Elections,
28 November 2021, Kyrgyzstan, EOM
LEOM – limited election observation mission
EOM – election observation mission
EET – election expert team
SEAM – special election assessment mission
EAM – election assessment mission

host country citizens, in June the Office resumed the
69

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

INTERNATIONAL SURVIVORS OF
TRAFFICKING ADVISORY COUNCIL

platform for human rights defenders. The platform features a
specially designed training centre on topics related to human
rights monitoring, safety and security, and trial monitoring, as
well as a collection of tools specifically developed to support

In January 2021, ODIHR launched the International

human rights professionals in conducting human rights

Survivors of Trafficking Advisory Council, the first

monitoring activities. More than 3,300 users have already

international advisory body of leaders within

visited FreedomLab, and 170 users have enrolled in the

the survivors community. The Council, which is

training centre. Throughout the development of the platform,

composed of 16 women and 5 men from 14 OSCE

ODIHR involved the human rights community to ensure that

participating States, provides advice and guidance

FreedomLab addresses the requirements of human rights

to ODIHR, and through ODIHR to the OSCE

defenders, ensures geographical balance and takes into

participating States, on effectively combating

account gender-specific needs. Its sustainability rests on its

trafficking in human beings.

usefulness to a wide human rights audience.

deployment of short-term observers to gather systematic
and comprehensive observation data on election days.

ADDRESSING ANTI -ASIAN
X E N O PH O B I A

All told, ODIHR facilitated the deployment of over 1,200
short-term observers to six participating States in 2021.

ODIHR’s latest hate crime data, reported in November

The presidential election in Uzbekistan on 24 October

2021, showed there were numerous instances of intolerant

2021 marked ODIHR’s 400th election observation since the

discourse and hate-motivated attacks against Asians and

Office’s establishment 30 years ago.

people of Asian descent across the OSCE region following the
outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Anti-Asian racism and

Over the year, the Office published 59 election-related

discrimination often remain unchallenged and have included

reports that comprehensively assessed electoral

intolerant remarks by politicians and other public figures.

processes in the OSCE area, including 23 final reports with

This is a major obstacle to efforts to eradicate systemic

recommendations to participating States on means of

racism and discrimination across the OSCE region, and also

improving their election processes. The Office also supported

limits the capacity of Asians and people of Asian descent to

six participating States in their efforts to address ODIHR’s

fully exercise their rights as citizens.

electoral recommendations.
ODIHR convened a public online event for civil society activists,

A NEW PL ATFORM FOR HUMAN RIGHTS
DEFENDER S

academics and public officials of Asian descent from Central
Asia, Europe and North America to discuss key concerns,
trends and developments in anti-Asian racism and xenophobia
in the OSCE region. The discussion included an exchange of

Within its broad programme to strengthen human rights,

promising experiences that could be adapted for use in other

in 2021 ODIHR launched FreedomLab, a safe, interactive

places and to address other types of intolerance. This was an

Working with Roma has been a core part of ODIHR’s activities since 2003. The Nicolae Gheorghe Roma Leadership Academy builds the leadership and
advocacy skills of Roma and Sinti from across the OSCE region. (OSCE)

70

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

“MY MISSION: A JUST AND INCLUSIVE WORLD”
on to found the international human rights organization
save space, which focuses on gaining justice for groups
who often find themselves marginalized, including Roma
and Sinti as well as other minority communities. Roxanna
leads the empowerment section, developing digital
strategies and video games for human rights training.
Roxanna’s greatest concern is that Roma and Sinti voices
are not being heard, and as a result their needs and
interests are not taken into consideration by policymakers
or society at large. She is determined to change that.
“Sharing experiences and knowledge with peers and
mentors has helped me build and strengthen the expertise
that I need to help create a society where the capabilities
and value of Romani leaders – particularly female leaders
– become visible in the fight to protect human rights. This
benefits everyone in society.”
Participating in ODIHR’s Human Rights Defenders Training
for Roma and Sinti human rights activists taught Roxanna
Roxanna-Lorraine Witt speaking at an event in Duisburg, Germany,

how to objectively monitor and document the human

on the continued persecution of Roma and Sinti communities,

rights violations she regularly encounters in her work,

July 2021. (Courtesy of save space e.V. and Solidarische Gesellschaft
der Vielen e.V.)

and how to use data collection and analysis as tools to
successfully advocate for change. She is also an alumna
of ODIHR’s annual Nicolae Gheorghe Roma Leadership

“My grandmother, who was a Holocaust survivor, taught

Academy, which aims to build the leadership and advocacy

me that it is always crucial to help people in need, to

skills of Roma and Sinti and to increase their influence

share what you have and to protect those who are most

on policy- and decision-making. The Academy enabled

vulnerable,” says Roxanna-Lorraine Witt, a young Sinti

Roxanna to network with Roma and Sinti advocates from

human rights activist from Germany. Growing up in an

across the OSCE region, who continue to empower and

environment shaped by poverty and trauma, Roxanna

motivate her to pursue her goals.

developed a strong sense of social justice and equality and
became socially and politically active early on.

“Thanks to the training and support I received from
ODIHR, I have been able to connect with others who share

The first in her family to study at university, Roxanna

my vision for a more inclusive, just and equitable world for

headed the education department at the Documentation

everyone,” Roxanna says. “By working together, I know we

and Cultural Centre of German Sinti and Roma. She went

can realize this vision, and inspire others to pursue it too.”

impactful, public example of ODIHR’s 2021 work to counter

society. The Human Rights Monitoring and Reporting Training

intolerance and hate crime throughout the OSCE region.

for Roma Human Rights Defenders and subsequent coaching
and support improved participants’ skills in conducting human

E M P OW E R I N G RO M A A N D S I N T I
CO M M U N I T I E S T O A D D R E S S
R AC I S M A N D D I S C R I M I N AT I O N

rights work and strengthened their ability to communicate with
target audiences and advocate on key human rights concerns.
A capacity-building training course on participation in
public and political life for Roma civil society organizations

Continuing manifestations of racism and discrimination

in North Macedonia and Serbia resulted in local plans of

against Roma and Sinti across the OSCE region remain a

action, several of which were supported by ODIHR. These

major obstacle to their capacity to exercise their rights and

included awareness-raising activities on affirmative action

participate fully in public and political life.

policies for Roma in higher education and working with grassroots groups on capacity-building around issues related to

In 2021, ODIHR organized a number of capacity-building

education. Participants also organized Roma Citizens Forums

programmes to empower Roma and Sinti activists and civil

and worked on establishing a Roma youth club.
71

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

High Commissioner on National
Minorities
High Commissioner: Ambassador Kairat Abdrakhmanov
Budget	

€3,504,000 (Unified Budget),
€546,915 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

20 international, 17 local (including 5 under
extrabudgetary projects)

OSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities
(@oscehcnm) | Twitter
OSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities:
Overview | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/hcnm

Using quiet diplomacy and a multi-year programmatic approach, the High Commissioner on National
Minorities (HCNM) continued to offer advice and support to governments and countries in 2021 on
developing and implementing inclusive policies and initiatives that protect the interests of national
minorities. Education and policing in diverse societies remained in the spotlight with two anniversary
events marking the publication of the HCNM’s Recommendations on Policing in Multi-Ethnic Societies
(2006) and The Hague Recommendations regarding the Education Rights of National Minorities (1996).

B U I LD I N G B R I D G E S B E T W E E N
CO M M U N I T I E S

as the Bujanovac Department of the Subotica Faculty of
Economics of the University of Novi Sad. Now in its tenth
year, this pioneering department provides quality, high-

Throughout 2021, the High Commissioner promoted

level education in Serbian and Albanian to students from all

multilingual education as a tool to strengthen social

backgrounds in the multi-ethnic context of southern Serbia,

cohesion and build bridges between communities. This

demonstrating what can be achieved when international

included setting up and supporting additional multilingual

and local actors work together to encourage respect for

higher education outlets in South-Eastern Europe, such

diversity.

A meeting of the Stakeholders Committee of the Bujanovac Department of the Subotica Faculty of Economics at the University of Novi Sad, co-chaired
by High Commissioner Kairat Abdrakhmanov and Ambassador Jan Braathu, Head of the OSCE Mission to Serbia. (OSCE/Milan Obradović)

72

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

For the first time since 1999, teaching Serbian was

D I V E R S I T Y M A N AG E M E N T T R A I N I N G

reintroduced at the University of Pristina in 2021, thanks to
the reaccreditation of the Balkanistics Study Programme,

Civil service institutions are a key interface between

which the office of the HCNM promoted and supported in

national minorities and the State and, as such, are often

co-operation with the OSCE Mission in Kosovo and others.

the places where conflicts either emerge or play out.

Besides its educational mission, the Balkanistics Study

Diversity management training provides the perfect tool to

Programme helps to meet the legal obligations to provide

improve inter-ethnic relations by enhancing civil servants’

higher education in official languages, including Serbian. Its

understanding and awareness. The High Commissioner is

graduates help to bridge the language divide and strengthen

working with local stakeholders to make the accredited course

understanding between communities, and improve

on diversity management given in Ukraine in 2021 more

translation and interpretation in the public sector.

widely available in Russian and English through train-thetrainer sessions in Central Asia and South-Eastern Europe.

Multilingual education also enables minority children,

International exchanges and study visits enabled institutions

especially girls, to gain confidence, improve academically

specializing in inter-ethnic issues to share experiences on

and enter higher education. The Central Asia Education

strategies, tools and working methods for social cohesion and

Programme, which started in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan,

integration with their counterparts in other countries.

proved this, inspiring Mongolia, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan
to introduce similar education programmes in 2021 and join
the HCNM’s new multi-country programme starting in 2022.

ENHANCING POLITICAL PARTICIPATION

PRO M O T I N G I N C LU S I V E P O LI C I E S
Over the years, the HCNM has published guidelines and
recommendations for policymakers on nine different themes
affecting national minorities. In 2021, the High Commissioner

Change can happen only if everyone has a seat at the

held anniversary conferences for The Hague Recommendations

table. The High Commissioner encourages national

regarding the Education Rights of National Minorities (1996) and the

minority representatives in the OSCE region, especially

Recommendations on Policing in Multi-Ethnic Societies (2006). Panel

women and young people, to engage in politics. In 2021 in

discussions at the United Nations in Geneva and in New York

Georgia, online seminars for national minority community

highlighted the link between peace and stability and the need to

representatives and Spring Schools for minority youth

include national minorities in public and economic life, especially

focused on domestic and foreign policy, the media,

during the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, thematic research

lobbying and advocacy. Former political party interns also

continued on the participation of national minorities in socio-

participated in Georgia’s 2021 election as national minority

economic life and the intersectionality of gender and national

candidates, election observers and election administrators.

minorities in the OSCE area. In November, the 2020 Max van
der Stoel Award was presented to the Pavee Point Traveller and
Roma Centre at the Peace Palace for their outstanding advocacy
work for the Traveller and Roma communities in Ireland.

Pavee Point Traveller and Roma Centre Chairperson Anastasia Crickley and Director Martin Collins accept the 2020 Max van der Stoel Award for their
Dublin-based organization. In attendance: Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands Ben Knapen; OSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities
Kairat Abdrakhmanov; former High Commissioners Astrid Thors, Lamberto Zannier, Rolf Ekeus and Knut Vollebæk; and family members of Max van
der Stoel. The Hague, 19 November 2021. (OSCE/Arnaud Roelofsz)

73

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

Representative on Freedom of
the Media
Representative: Teresa Ribeiro
Budget	

€1,608,800 (Unified Budget),
€390,979 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff 	

17

OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media |
Facebook
OSCE media freedom (@OSCE_RFoM) | Twitter
The OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media |
YouTube

www.osce.org/representative-on-freedom-of-media

The Representative on Freedom of the Media observes media developments in the participating
States, advocates and promotes full compliance with the Organization’s principles and commitments
in respect of freedom of expression and free media, and responds to serious non-compliance
therewith. In 2021, the Representative resumed in-person meetings and country visits, while focusing
further on online challenges to media freedom.

Since the work of the Representative on Freedom of

including Albania, Germany, Kazakhstan, Switzerland,

the Media revolves around building relationships and

Ukraine, the United States of America and Uzbekistan. During

direct engagement with relevant stakeholders, including

these visits, the Representative addressed a wide range of

authorities, journalists and media organizations, the cautious

issues, from increasing polarization and growing anti-media

resumption of in-person visits and meetings in 2021 was a

sentiments to laws on surveillance and intelligence and other

welcome development. The Representative visited a variety

regulations that impact freedom of expression and media

of interlocutors in countries in all parts of the OSCE region,

freedom; and from the increasing violence against the media,

OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media Teresa Ribeiro addressing the press during the 23rd OSCE Central Asia Media Conference on promoting
public value of the media in Central Asia. Tashkent, Uzbekistan, 9 September 2021. (OSCE/Umar Isaev)

74

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Journalists’ work during public gatherings has become ever more dangerous in the OSCE region. (Shutterstock/imageBROKER/Jochen Tack)

including during public gatherings, to the importance of

discussed ways to limit the harmful effects of disinformation

independent public service broadcasting.

while safeguarding freedom of expression, mechanisms
to preserve journalistic standards through voluntary self-

Aside from these visits, the Representative organized several

regulation, the mandates and practices of relevant national

virtual, hybrid and in-person conferences and round tables

regulatory authorities, and the impact of artificial intelligence

to bring together different media organizations, officials

and disinformation as a multilateral policy challenge.

and others with the aim of building effective networks and
coalitions. These meetings constitute an important platform

Meanwhile, as part of its #SAIFE project, the Office of the

to discuss issues that might otherwise never be brought

Representative continued to shine a spotlight on the impact

to the table, enabling a frank and open exchange between

that artificial intelligence (AI) can have on freedom of

civil society and state authorities on challenges to media

expression. Following a call for proposals in autumn 2020,

freedom on the ground. The Representative (co-)organized

several innovative initiatives – such as a visual guide on AI

conferences and round tables in Albania, Austria, Sweden

tracking techniques, podcasts on the intersection between

and Uzbekistan, as well as an online event for Central Asia,

hate speech and AI, or the impact of algorithmic content

connecting participants from all over the OSCE region.

curation on freedom of opinion – were used to facilitate
dialogue among the OSCE participating States and experts.

O N LI N E C H A LLE N G E S T O M E D I A
FREEDOM

Close collaboration with renowned artistic experts led to
the co-production of the interactive storytelling website and
documentary Made to Measure.

In 2021, the Representative also launched a series of activities

Furthermore, the Office of the Representative addressed

on disinformation, an issue that can cause great public harm,

the issue of online safety of journalists, including through its

including by undermining public trust in the media. As some

renowned Safety of Female Journalists (#SOFJO) project. The

forms of disinformation and propaganda may incite violence,

work on this topic built on the Office’s comprehensive #SOFJO

discrimination or hostility against identifiable groups in

resource guide published in 2020, which has been translated

society, often with the aim of undermining the cohesion

into many languages, by furthering the guide’s 40 proposed

of societies, the Representative decided to place increased

actions in co-operation with key actors and their networks, as

focus on the threats of harmful disinformation by hosting

well as putting these actions in regional contexts.

a series of round tables on this topic. These round tables
75

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

SECRETARIAT
The Vienna-based Secretariat assists the OSCE Chairmanship, carries out
programmatic work in support of OSCE commitments, supports OSCE field activities,
maintains relations with international and non-governmental organizations, and
provides conference, language, administrative, financial, personnel and information
technology services.

Sign at the entrance to the OSCE Secretariat, Vienna. (OSCE)

76

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Office of the Secretary
General and central services
Director: Ambassador Luca Fratini
Budget	

€11,446,200 (Unified Budget),
€626,422 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

102 (including 2 under extrabudgetary projects)

Director: Luca Fratini (@LfratiniOSCE) | Twitter
Luca Fratini | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/secretariat

The Office of the Secretary General is a provider of central services across executive structures,
a manager of programmes and a policy advisory function for the OSCE Chair and the Secretary
General, including in the latter’s role as the OSCE’s Chief Administrative Officer. The Office supports
co-ordination and collaboration across the Organization.

C E N T R A L S E RV I C E S
Conference and Language Services continued to provide the
highest level of meeting and language support to delegations,
the Chair and executive structures, ensuring that the day-today business of OSCE delegates could continue in a safe and
effective way. Conference and Language Services facilitated
events in blended, in-person and fully virtual formats, adapting
to the different phases of the pandemic. This included events
with interpretation into all six official OSCE languages, as well
as an increased number of Permanent Council meetings.
Conference and Language Services ensure that the Permanent Council,

Security Management provided security support to all
executive structures within the OSCE Security Management

the Forum for Security Co-operation and other OSCE meetings are well
equipped and well supported. (OSCE/Mickey Kröll)

System. A significant increase in security compliance was
noted throughout the OSCE in 2021, as executive structures
further aligned their policies with the newly introduced

The Documentation Centre in Prague, with newly

Security Instructions, while almost 2,500 staff members

acquired records management services, focused on the

have now completed security training. Security Management

establishment of practices and tools to retain knowledge

continues to perform a key role in gathering, analysing and

and improve collaboration. It handled hundreds of requests

reporting on current or potential threats to the security

for information and documents, including from OSCE

and safety of OSCE personnel, including COVID-related

staff, participating States and Partners for Co-operation,

information to key stakeholders throughout the Organization.

international organizations, judicial bodies, civil society
organizations and academia. The Centre also hosted

The Office of Legal Affairs continued to deliver centralized

10 researchers.

advice to the Chair and all executive structures on the full
range of legal issues that affect the Organization. These
include interpretation of the regulatory framework across all
executive structures, administrative appeals and complaints,

P O LI C Y A DV I C E A N D
PRO G R A M M AT I C S U PP O R T

privileges and immunities issues, dispute settlement, tenders
and negotiations of complex contracts, and the development

Executive Management serves as a Cabinet to the Secretary

of administrative policies.

General and in this capacity provides both policy and
practical support. The team facilitates communication
between departments and the Secretary General and serves
77

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

as the main contact point between the Secretariat and the

professionals developing policy papers for participating

Chairmanship.

States’ consideration.

In co-ordination with other Secretariat departments and

In addition to providing strategic communications advice and

executive structures, Executive Management supported the

support to the executive structures, Communications and

Secretary General with policy advice, preparation of meetings

Media Relations made a concerted effort in 2021 to improve

and visits, and timely follow-up aligned with her guidance.

the Organization’s visibility by focusing on the impact that OSCE

During 2021, the Secretary General participated in over 160

programmes and activities have on people across the OSCE

events, spoke with over 40 presidents and ministers, visited

region. Practically, this has meant much greater use of social

16 participating States (including seven OSCE field operations)

media with a particular focus on human impact stories and a

and met with staff from all OSCE institutions. Executive

shift towards materials such as photos and videos that are more

Management also provided routine advice to the Chair,

appealing for the audience, leading to greater engagement.

including to support visits of the Chairperson-in-Office.
The External Co-operation Section supported a wide range of
As part of its strategic planning and resource mobilization

interactions with international and regional organizations to

work, Executive Management led co-ordination across

leverage the comparative advantages of institutional partners

executive structures of a prospective OSCE response to the

towards the fulfilment of OSCE commitments. The Section

implications of the situation in Afghanistan for the OSCE

defined areas for common engagement and intensified

region, which was considered by ministers at the Stockholm

joint activities and both high-level and expert-level thematic

Ministerial Council.

meetings, including on post-pandemic recovery, environmental
sustainability, transnational organized crime and economic

The Strategic Policy Support Unit continued research and

development. It also worked to deepen relations with the Asian

outreach, including with experts in the think tank and

and Mediterranean Partners for Co-operation.

academic community and representatives of governments and
the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, notably on proposals to

The Secretariat’s Ethics function provided in-person and

increase the OSCE’s effectiveness in light of the upcoming 50th

online consultation and advisory services to staff and

anniversary of the Helsinki Final Act. The Unit also developed

managers to ensure ethical behaviours and decision-making,

and delivered induction training for the incoming Chair.

as well as training and awareness-raising on ethical issues
and the work of the Ethics function. The Ethics function

Executive Management also continued to promote the

was also engaged in enhancements to the OSCE’s ethical

inclusion and participation of youth in OSCE activities and

framework in collaboration with key stakeholders.

projects, including through advice to participating States,
in particular to the Chair’s Special Representative on

Strengthening the OSCE’s approach to early resolution of

Youth and Security and the co-chairs of the OSCE Group

workplace disputes is a priority of the Secretary General. In line

of Friends of Youth and Security. The Perspectives 2030

with this, the Ethics Co-ordinator has focused on building an

Initiative and newly launched Online Academy sought to

Informal Resolution function that will operate independently

give youth a voice in OSCE security debates, with 30 young

and report administratively to the Ethics Co-ordinator.

The OSCE Documentation Centre in Prague. (OSCE)

78

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

Conflict prevention
Director of the Conflict Prevention Centre: Ambassador Tuula Yrjölä
Budget	

€5,239,700 (Unified Budget),
€3,372,168 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

75 (including 13 under extrabudgetary projects)

www.osce.org/secretariat/conflict-prevention

The Conflict Prevention Centre (CPC) is the main point of contact on matters concerning OSCE
field operations. It addresses all phases of the conflict cycle by providing policy and operational
guidance and advice, including through early warning and support for the OSCE’s response in crisis
situations and through efforts to find lasting political settlements for existing conflicts. The CPC is
a core structure for OSCE work in the politico-military dimension, assisting participating States in
the implementation of confidence- and security-building measures (CSBMs), and it also provides
Organization-wide support for project management.

S U PP O R T I N G CO N F LI C T R E S O LU T I O N ,
O S C E F I E LD AC T I V I T I E S A N D PROJ E C T
M A N AG E M E N T

ordinator in Ukraine and the Observer Mission at the Russian
Checkpoints Gukovo and Donetsk, including during the
discontinuation of the Observer Mission following the expiry
of its mandate on 30 September 2021.

The CPC continued its role in co-ordinating the OSCE
response to the crisis in and around Ukraine, including by

In the South Caucasus, the CPC supported existing

supporting efforts to stabilize the security situation and

mechanisms and efforts to advance sustainable peace:

foster implementation of the Minsk agreements. It assisted

the Minsk Group Co-Chairs, the Personal Representative

the Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine in carrying out

of the Chairperson-in-Office on the Conflict Dealt with by

its mandated tasks, focusing on reporting and duty of care

the OSCE Minsk Conference and the High-Level Planning

for mission members during the pandemic. The CPC also

Group. Particular attention was paid to supporting the

assisted the Trilateral Contact Group in its mediation and

efforts of the Special Representative for the South Caucasus

conflict resolution efforts, the work of the OSCE Project Co-

and the Organization’s ongoing involvement in the Incident

On 15 June 2021, the IPRM marked its 100th meeting in the presence of OSCE Secretary General Helga Maria Schmid and the Director of Security and
Defence Policy at the European External Action Service, Joanneke Balfoort. (EU Monitoring Mission/Sophie Guesne)

79

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

HELPING CONFLICT-AFFECTED
COMMUNITIES IN GEORGIA

Throughout the year, the CPC provided advice to the
Chair, the Secretary General and field operations, thus
strengthening cross-dimensional approaches and coordination. In Central Asia and South-Eastern Europe, the

In conflict-affected areas, the local population

annual regional meetings of heads of field operations

suffers most. The IPRM in Ergneti helps to address

once again proved an essential platform for discussions on

humanitarian and security concerns on both

regional dynamics, including with international partners.

sides of the administrative boundary line. Co-

This year’s Central Asia meeting put special focus on the

facilitated by the OSCE and the European Union

implications of developments in Afghanistan. The CPC

Monitoring Mission in Georgia, the mechanism

supported the Border Management Staff College in Dushanbe

and its associated hotline help to address real-

and the OSCE Academy in Bishkek, OSCE flagship initiatives

world issues, from resolving detention cases to

that offer significant opportunities for synergy and joint

facilitating agreements on the supply of irrigation

action in a regional and OSCE-wide context. In South-Eastern

water. The IPRM is a conduit for regular information

Europe, the CPC-supported Regional Housing Programme has

exchange on issues of common concern, including

so far delivered almost 9,000 housing solutions for vulnerable

the COVID-19 pandemic, and contributes to early

refugee / internally displaced families out of the total goal of

warning and conflict prevention, de-escalation of

11,800 housing units envisioned in the project.

tensions and confidence-building.
In 2021, the CPC provided programme and project
management support to the Secretariat and field operations,
overseeing an extrabudgetary portfolio of 233 active
Prevention and Response Mechanism (IPRM) in Ergneti, as

extrabudgetary projects worth €293.5 million as of 31

well as the Geneva International Discussions dealing with

October 2021.

the consequences of the 2008 war in Georgia. The CPC also
backed efforts by the OSCE Mission to Moldova and the
Special Representative for the Transdniestrian Settlement
Process, including preparatory work for a possible 5+2
meeting.

Secretary General Helga Maria Schmid attends the inauguration of a new drinking water system supplying 144 conflict-affected households in the
village of Tsitsagiaantkari, implemented by the Gori Municipality with support from the OSCE, USAID and Italy, 14 June 2021. (Mirian Meladze)

80

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF
MINISTERIAL COUNCIL DECISION NO. 3/11
ON ELEMENTS OF THE CONFLICT CYCLE
Since this landmark decision was adopted in Vilnius ten

introduced a new quality of expertise that the OSCE will

years ago, the CPC has been working to strengthen the

continue to develop.

OSCE’s conflict cycle toolbox.
The CPC’s Mediation Support Team provides advice to
The OSCE Network of Early Warning Focal Points draws

OSCE Special Representatives, their teams and other

on the expertise of all OSCE executive structures and

participants in negotiation and conflict management

the Parliamentary Assembly. Almost half the focal points

formats, as well as gender-sensitive capacity-building on

are women, and early-warning indicators are gender-

dialogue facilitation for OSCE staff.

mainstreamed. The Network is a key asset for analysing
crisis dynamics and identifying entry points for long-

Providing regular guidance on the conflict cycle to bridge

term structural conflict prevention. Using open sources,

the gap between theory and practice, the CPC updated the

the CPC’s Situation/Communications Room monitors

publication OSCE Security Sector Governance and Reform:

developments affecting the OSCE area on a 24/7 basis.

Guidelines for OSCE Staff to reflect growing attention to
security sector governance and reform as a nationally

To enhance the OSCE’s capacities for early action, the

owned and demand-driven tool to foster resilience,

Secretariat developed an operational framework for

structural prevention and long-term security. In 2021, CPC

crisis response to strengthen coherence, a virtual pool

activities to assist interested participating States in this

of equipment to quickly identify critical assets such as

area focused on parliamentary oversight and inclusive

armoured vehicles and a rapid deployment roster to

multi-stakeholder policy dialogue.

reassign staff resources in times of urgent need. All three
proved critical in the planning and rapid deployment of

Discussions in the two Conflict Cycle Seminars organized

the Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine (SMM) in March

by the Swedish OSCE Chair and the CPC focused on

2014.

inclusivity, in particular the meaningful inclusion of women
and civil society. At the Stockholm Ministerial Council, a

Keeping abreast of changing operational realities also

side event showcased OSCE progress in operationalizing

proved an extraordinary learning experience. The SMM

MC Decision No. 3/11. In 2021, the CPC organized the first-

and the Secretariat drew up numerous standard operating

ever OSCE peace-building course to build in-house OSCE

procedures that could be useful in future contexts.

staff capacity on conflict cycle issues. Further initiatives are

The Mission’s unprecedented use of new technologies,

sure to follow.

including unmanned aerial vehicles and satellite imagery,

SUPPORTING THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF POLITICO - MILITARY COMMITMENTS

the Network is monitored 24/7 by all 57 participating States,
enabling them to react quickly to requests, such as for a
military verification mission or clarification of unusual military

The FSC Support and the Communications and Technology

activity. The CPC continues developing its new Information

Units support participating States in implementing

Management and Reporting System (iMARS) to improve

confidence- and security-building measures. These include

access to and the availability of military information.

the Vienna Document, addressing military force postures
and activities; documents on small arms and light weapons

This year, some 150 young professionals, mostly women,

(SALW) and stockpiles of conventional ammunition (SCA); the

participated in the annual OSCE Scholarship for Peace

Code of Conduct on Politico-Military Aspects of Security; and

and Security training programme, which aims to increase

the principles of non-proliferation.

the participation of youth in the security sector and
decision-making at all levels. Participants learned about

The CPC facilitates the secure exchange of military and cyber-

conflict prevention and resolution through arms control,

related information through the OSCE Communications

disarmament and non-proliferation.

Network and reports on implementation of CSBMs,
thus supporting analysis of military data exchanged by
participating States. As a secure conduit for diplomatic traffic,
81

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

In 2021, the CPC expanded OSCE e-learning modules covering

of explosive remnants of war and landmines; and illicit

FSC-related topics to include a course on conventional arms

trafficking in SALW.

control and CSBMs. It also developed an electronic repository
of SALW- and SCA-related OSCE assistance projects, as well as

In 2021, the OSCE removed the last of the rocket fuel

official OSCE-generated documents and reports.

component mélange remaining in Kyrgyzstan. For more than
two decades, this toxic and highly combustible substance

In 2021, OSCE participating States adopted a guide on

had been stored in deteriorated reservoirs at a military

national procedures for the destruction of SALW and

installation near Bishkek, posing a serious threat to the

continued their review of existing guidelines. Twenty current

environment and the safety of more than 21,000 people

SALW- and SCA-related assistance projects amounting to over

living nearby. Some 150 tonnes were shipped by rail to the

€40 million addressed a wide range of security and safety

Russian Federation, where the mélange was reprocessed into

risks stemming from conventional ammunition, explosive

products for civilian use. For more than 20 years, the OSCE

material and toxic rocket fuel components; degraded physical

has worked on similar projects in Albania, Armenia, Belarus,

infrastructure and poor stockpile management; the presence

Georgia, Kazakhstan, Montenegro and Ukraine.

Removal of the last batch of mélange from the Novopavlovka area, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, 2 November 2021. (OSCE)

82

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

Transnational threats
Co-ordinator of Activities to Address Transnational Threats:
Ambassador Alena Kupchyna
Budget	

€2,769,600 (Unified Budget),
€1,878,139 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

51 (including 20 under extrabudgetary projects)

Co-ordinator:
Alena Kupchyna (@AlenaKupchyna) | Twitter

www.osce.org/secretariat/cyber-ict-security
www.osce.org/secretariat/terrorism
www.osce.org/secretariat/policing
www.osce.org/secretariat/borders

The Transnational Threats Department supports OSCE participating States and Partners for Cooperation in their efforts to address transnational threats, with a particular focus on combating
terrorism, enhancing border security and border management, strengthening police capacities to
deal with transnational threats and addressing cyber/ICT security. In 2021, the Department provided
assistance to participating States in fulfilling political commitments by convening expert meetings,
sharing information and best practices, and delivering capacity-building projects.

PRO M O T I N G O S C E C Y B E R
CO N F I D E N C E B U I LD I N G M E A S U R E S

2021, the Department launched an interactive e-learning
course in English and Russian on how the OSCE’s pioneering
cyber/ICT security confidence-building measures (CBMs)

As the importance of cyberspace and information and

strengthen international cybersecurity. Over 500 people

communication technologies (ICT) continues to grow,

across the OSCE region have already benefited from this

increased awareness about its threats and challenges to

cyber capacity-building.

personal, national and international security is needed. In

Participants in a LIVE training session for women leaders in Sarob, Tajikistan. (OSCE)

83

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

During Cybersecurity Awareness Month in October, the

important for gaining new knowledge and skills that I can

Department organized a series of online activities to

directly put into practice,” said a facilitator of a LIVE course

promote personal accountability and effective cyber hygiene,

for women leaders. The #UnitedCVE campaign continued to

highlighting key issues such as threat awareness and the

highlight the important work of practitioners preventing and

meaningful participation of women and youth in cyberspace.

countering violent extremism at the community level.

S T R E N G T H E N I N G CO M M U N I T Y
R E S I LI E N C E T O V I O LE N T E X T R E M I S M

T R A N S F O R M I N G PRO PE R T Y
CO N F I S C AT E D F RO M O RG A N I Z E D
C R I M E I N T O A S O C I A L E N T E R PR I S E

In co-operation with OSCE field operations in Central Asia,
the Department organized two nine-week regional train-the-

Reusing assets confiscated from criminal groups for the

trainers seminars for local facilitators of training courses on

benefit of communities is an important element of a

preventing violent extremism and radicalization for youth,

comprehensive approach to fighting organized crime.

women and community leaders; 32 of the 39 participants

It can create new business opportunities and generates

were women. These courses were part of the Department’s

employment, while deterring crime and enhancing trust

flagship civil society capacity-building initiative, Leaders

in the rule of law. Together with the Office of the Co-

against Intolerance and Violent Extremism (LIVE). “LIVE is the

ordinator of Economic and Environmental Activities, the

best that the international community can offer in terms of

Transnational Threats Department has been working closely

training on this topic,” said a participant from Uzbekistan.

with government representatives and civil society in SouthEastern Europe to raise awareness of best practices in social

Paving the way towards a lasting community of practice,

reuse and to build implementation capacity. In 2021, these

capstone online seminars brought together over 50 certified

departments jointly supported a social reuse project in

LIVE facilitators in South-Eastern Europe and Central Asia for

Elbasan, Albania, in co-operation with the Albanian Agency

cross-regional peer exchange and a deeper focus on shared

for the Administration of Seized and Confiscated Assets and

themes of interest such as gender-responsive programming

ENGIM, a civil society organization with expertise in social

and the “do no harm” approach. “The programme was very

reuse of confiscated assets. Over the years, Elbasan came

Employees of My Craft Tradition practise traditional weaving in a building in Elbasan, Albania, that was confiscated from organized crime.
(Courtesy of the Joscelyn Foundation)

84

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

to be known as a hub for organized crime where powerful

Multinational Peace Support Operations Training Centre. The

criminal groups fought to control the illicit drug industry.

hands-on training, including fieldwork, brought together 30

A building that used to belong to organized crime was

law enforcement, border security and defence officials from

converted into a social enterprise that trains and employs

Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cyprus, Greece, North

women from different social and economic backgrounds to

Macedonia, Serbia, the United Kingdom and Egypt. Terrorists

produce artisanal products. According to the programme

and criminals view fragile archaeological sites and museums

director of the non-governmental organization managing

for the safekeeping of priceless treasures as, in the words of

the enterprise, “projects such as this one contribute to

one participant, “nothing more than millennia-long savings

transforming this negative image of Elbasan and shift

accounts that they can draw upon at will to finance their

attention to its rich artisanal culture and talented citizens”.

nefarious activities – wantonly and recklessly obliterating
our common human history in the process”. The OSCE’s new

A D D R E S S I N G I LLI C I T T R A F F I C K I N G
I N C U LT U R A L PRO PE R T Y

programme will help participating States and Partners for Cooperation to prevent this destruction of humanity’s shared
heritage.

With close links to transnational organized crime, terrorist
networks, international money laundering and corruption
networks, illicit trafficking in cultural property is a serious
transnational security threat. Building on its long experience
helping participating States to prevent cross-border
trafficking in arts and antiquities, the Department launched
a pioneering new programme in 2021 that assembled a
team of experts from international partner organizations,
national border and law enforcement agencies, academia
and museums to tackle this global security threat. The
Department also organized a specialized training course on
cultural property protection in co-operation with the Hellenic

Participants in a training course on the protection of cultural property organized by the OSCE and the Hellenic Multinational Peace Support
Operations Training Centre, 30 August – 3 September 2021. (OSCE/Florian Krejsa)

85

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

Economic and environmental
activities
Co-ordinator of OSCE Economic and Environmental Activities:
Ambassador Igli Hasani
Budget	

€2,235,700 (Unified Budget),
€1,431,365 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

25

Co-ordinator: Igli Hasani (@IgliHasani) | Twitter
Igli Hasani | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/oceea

The Office of the Co-ordinator of OSCE Economic and Environmental Activities (OCEEA) addresses
economic and environmental issues with an impact on security. Its work includes promoting good
economic and environmental governance; preventing and combating corruption; fostering
digitalization and trade and transport connectivity; tackling socio-economic disparities, including
economic empowerment of women; and promoting transboundary water co-operation and water
diplomacy, disaster risk reduction, hazardous waste management and energy security. The adoption
of a Ministerial Council decision on climate change in 2021 will bring new momentum to the OSCE’s
work in this area.

PRO M O T I N G LO C A L G OV E R N M E N T
I N T E G R I T Y A N D T R A N S PA R E N C Y
IN UKR AINE
In 2021, with support from the OCEEA, the Ukrainian city
of Ternopil launched an online platform where citizens can
participate in allocating the municipal budget, initiate and vote
for new projects to improve city infrastructure, oversee public
spending and interact with authorities and fellow citizens.
Ternopil is one of three cities that benefited from the OCEEA’s
multi-year efforts to strengthen integrity and transparency
in municipal governance in Ukraine. Since 2018, the OCEEA
has been providing technical advice and support, capacitybuilding and recommendations, enabling participating cities
to introduce new measures to increase the transparency,
integrity and accessibility of their public services. To take
another example, the city of Drohobych expanded its
e-services, providing detailed financial information on its
operations to the public and enabling citizens to report
unethical behaviour on the part of public servants as well as
situations where they perceive conflicts of interest.
The OCEEA’s continuous support helped both Ternopil
and Drohobych get to the top of the ranking of the most
transparent cities in Ukraine in 2019 and 2020. Looking
ahead, the OCEEA will continue supporting Ukrainian
municipal administrations in improving the quality of local
governance through a follow-up project, which will focus on
the use of digital tools and data-driven decision-making.
86

Members of the Mentoring Programme met in person at the Central
Asian Sub-regional Preparatory Conference for the ninth World Water
Forum, 19 October 2021. From left: Shohida Tulieva from Tajikistan; Sogol
Jafarzadeh, OSCE Environmental Affairs Adviser; Lyazzat Syrlybayeva
from Kazakhstan. (OSCE)

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

Protecting nature in the Shar/Šara Mountains (pictured) and the Korab Massif emerged as a priority for co-operation in South-Eastern Europe.
(Anela Stavrevska Panajotova)

S U PP O R T I N G WO M E N WAT E R
PRO F E S S I O N A L S

CO - O PE R AT I N G O N C LI M AT E C H A N G E
TO STRENGTHEN SECURIT Y

The OCEEA has a long history of engagement with the water

Heatwaves, wildfires, floods, droughts, rising sea levels and

community in Central Asia and Afghanistan. One objective

melting glaciers – as climate change increases the frequency

is to support women water professionals in the region

and intensity of these phenomena, they can jeopardize security,

to advance their careers and reach senior management

especially if they converge with economic, social or political

positions in the water sector. In 2021, the OCEEA launched

challenges. However, co-operation in tackling climate change

a mentoring and career development programme for

can enhance security by strengthening good neighbourly

women water professionals, in partnership with the Regional

relations and building mutual confidence and trust.

Environmental Centre for Central Asia and the Stockholm
International Water Institute. Each month, over 20 women

For more than a decade, the OCEEA has been working with

from Central Asia and Afghanistan meet online with experts

OSCE field operations to identify opportunities for regional

and mentors to discuss challenges facing women in the water

co-operation on climate change and security. The 2021 OSCE

sector and take part in capacity-building activities.

Ministerial Council decision on strengthening co-operation
to address the challenges caused by climate change gives

“The mentoring programme allows us to share experiences

new momentum to this work.

and knowledge and provides a platform where we can improve
not only our professional skills but also personal qualities such

In 2021, a regional consultation process in South-Eastern

as public speaking, communication and self-branding,” says

Europe led by the OCEEA in partnership with adelphi

Aigerim Karibay, a participant from Kazakhstan, who works

concluded its assessment of the security implications of

at the Bartogay Reservoir water management complex. “Such

climate change in the region. Over 80 regional stakeholders

programmes are very necessary and useful for broadening

identified and mapped seven hotspots; enhancing climate

horizons and reaching new peaks for women professionals.”

resilience and protecting nature in the Shar/Šara Mountains
and the Korab Massif emerged as a priority for co-operation.

Shohida Tulieva, a participant from Tajikistan, exemplifies
how the programme has helped women develop their

Also in 2021, in the South Caucasus, 70 regional stakeholders

careers: “As a result of being part of this network, I was

identified opportunities for co-operation in addressing

invited recently to be a guest lecturer, and now I am looking

security implications of climate change and strengthening

to apply for a PhD course on water management and gender

climate resilience, with wildfire management emerging as the

aspects,” she says.

top priority.

In the coming year, the mentoring programme will enable

These processes are part of an ongoing OCEEA project

members of the Central Asia–Afghanistan Network to

to strengthen responses to security risks from climate

exchange experience with international experts, including

change in South-Eastern Europe, Eastern Europe, the South

from other women’s networks. The OCEEA will also

Caucasus and Central Asia. Looking ahead, the project will

support members to showcase their work at regional and

continue to promote regional co-operation and support

international water events.

the development and implementation of joint adaptation
measures in all four regions.
87

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

INTERVIEW WITH THE MINISTER OF
ENVIRONMENT AND PHYSICAL PLANNING
OF THE REPUBLIC OF NORTH MACEDONIA,
NASER NUREDINI
What are the impacts

challenges together. I find this conversation very valuable

of climate change in

because it reinforces our individual efforts and enhances

North Macedonia and

the combined impact of various initiatives for climate

the South-Eastern

action. It provides new avenues to strengthen regional

Europe region, and

co-operation, complements initiatives such as the Green

what is at stake?

Agenda for the Western Balkans, and thus contributes to

Our region has been

security and stability in our region.

identified as one of

The Minister of Environment and
Physical Planning of the Republic of

the planet’s “warming

What are the main findings of the OSCE’s climate

hot spots,” and we are

change and security project in South-Eastern Europe,

already witnessing the

and what do they mean for North Macedonia?

adverse impacts of

I participated in the regional consultation process on

climate change: over

climate change and security, and I am impressed with

the past two decades,

what has been achieved with the risk assessment study.

average temperatures

It provides a comprehensive overview of the risks that

have increased by 1.2°C;

climate change poses to security in the region, and they

Physical Planning of the Republic of

heatwaves, floods,

are reflected on a map. The Shar/Šara Mountains and

North Macedonia)

wildfires are happening

Korab Massif area is one of the seven shared hotspots

more frequently

identified. In its next phase, the project will address

North Macedonia, Naser Nuredini.
(Ministry of Environment and

and intensively. This presents risks to the health and

challenges at the nature reserve level and will explore

livelihoods of our people, shared ecosystems, food, water

joint measures among the local stakeholders to address

and energy security. It affects our economies, which is

the identified risks in this area. This complements

relevant for regional security and stability.

the conservation efforts of my country, as after many
years of work, we have recently created the Shar/Šara

What role do you see for the OSCE in addressing

Mountains National Park. Co-operation is essential for

these challenges in the region?

the protection of its rich biodiversity while fostering

Since early 2020, North Macedonia has been part of

climate adaptation and resilience. These efforts will

the OSCE’s regional project on climate change and

bring significant environmental, economic and social

security, which has initiated a conversation in my

improvements and contribute to increased security and

country among different sectors, but also with other

stability in North Macedonia and in the region.

regional stakeholders, on the ways we can address these

Minister Nuredini talking with an owner of a local farm in the Shar/Šara Mountains. (GEF/UNEP STAR 5 project)

88

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Combating trafficking
in human beings
Special Representative and Co-ordinator: Valiant Richey
Budget	

€1,073,700 (Unified Budget),
€401,337 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

15 (including 2 under extrabudgetary projects)

OSCE Anti-Trafficking (@osce_cthb) | Twitter
Special Representative and Co-ordinator for Combating
Trafficking in Human Beings: Valiant Richey | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/cthb

The Office of the Special Representative and Co-ordinator for Combating Trafficking in Human
Beings assists the OSCE participating States in their efforts to prevent human trafficking,
investigate and prosecute perpetrators and protect victims. In 2021, after a forced hiatus due to
the COVID-19 pandemic, the Office resumed simulation-based anti-trafficking training exercises.
Amid the resurgence of a large mixed migration flow, the Special Representative visited Bosnia
and Herzegovina to assess the risks of human trafficking and offer support to the country’s antitrafficking efforts.

E X A M I N I N G A N T I -T R A F F I C K I N G
R E S P O N S E S I N M I X E D M I G R AT I O N
F LOW S 

After a series of virtual meetings with the authorities,
an in-person visit was organized in mid-July. The Special
Representative and Co-ordinator for Combating Trafficking
in Human Beings and the Vice-Chair of the OSCE PA Ad Hoc

In early 2021, an increasing flow of migrants was reported

Committee on Migration led the OSCE delegation. Supported

along the so-called Balkan route, with around 8,000 people

by colleagues from the OSCE Mission throughout the visit,

passing through Bosnia and Herzegovina. Understanding

they headed towards the country’s western border, where

that large and unregulated migration flows are a breeding

they visited two transit reception centres. The first, in Bihać,

ground for human trafficking, the Office decided to assess

provided assistance to migrant families and unaccompanied

the situation and offer support. 

children. The services were well tailored to the needs of

OSCE Special Representative and Co-ordinator for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings Valiant Richey and Vice-Chair of the OSCE Parliamentary
Assembly Ad Hoc Committee on Migration Gudrun Kugler visit the Borići Temporary Reception Centre, Bosnia and Herzegovina, July 2021.  
(OSCE/Sanin Muftic)

89

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

residents, including safe housing, robust programmes for

Mediterranean migration routes. The training, organized at

children and materials in the languages of the migrants. 

the Center of Excellence for Stability Police Units in Vicenza,
Italy, promotes an innovative approach to capacity-building.

The second centre, in Lipa, was more rugged and consisted of

Anti-trafficking practitioners engage in live-action, simulated

tent accommodations. The presence of the OSCE delegation

scenarios to identify and investigate cases of human

quickly drew attention: in minutes, a hundred or so migrants

trafficking in mixed migration flows while ensuring a victim-

– primarily young men – surrounded the delegation, sharing

centred and human rights–based approach.

their frustrations about the lack of food and unsanitary

 

conditions. Their desperation was palpable. Some of them

Over one week, multi-agency teams from six OSCE

said they had paid a lot of money to smugglers to get there

participating States worked together, under the guidance of

and that going home was not an option. They showed bruises

international experts, to tackle online sexual exploitation,

from beatings suffered on their journey.

which spiked during the COVID-19 pandemic. Participants were
encouraged through the storylines to promote better judicial

This mission provided an opportunity to review OSCE policy

co-operation, timely victim referral, assistance and cross-

recommendations in practice. The visit revealed a microcosm

agency partnerships. The simulation culminated with a raid on

of the migrant situation in Europe, where people on the move

the suspected traffickers and the rescue of the victims.

could experience very different circumstances, threats or

  

challenges within a few kilometres of one another. 

In 2021, the Office of the Special Representative and Coordinator for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings also

The delegation was struck by how fragile the migrants’

supported national simulation-based training exercises in

situation was and how vulnerable they were to exploitation,

Albania, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Ukraine. 

as well as by the commitment of the men and women who
staffed the centres. The circumstances demonstrated the
need to correctly interview migrants to understand if they
have been exploited, to offer education opportunities to
children as a prevention tactic, and to establish a multiagency, victim-centred approach to addressing human
trafficking risks. 
Perhaps most importantly, the delegation saw how this work
is challenged by the scale of the problem: while case-by-case
approaches can be a crucial lifeline for victims, long-term
success requires strong investment in prevention. 

CO M B AT I N G H U M A N T R A F F I C K I N G
A LO N G M I G R AT I O N RO U T E S :
S I M U L AT E D AC T I O N F O R R E A L - LI F E
I M PAC T
These are hard times for the populations of Leaveland
and Rootland. Endless wars force many Rootlanders to
flee, seeking asylum elsewhere. Meanwhile, confronted
with famine and unemployment, many Leavelanders are
ready to do anything to leave their country. Profiting from
the situation, a transnational criminal organization runs a
trafficking ring across the neighbouring countries. 
 
This was the opening scene of the international simulationbased training exercise organized in September within the
Office’s project on combating human trafficking along

90

Secretary General Helga Maria Schmid observes a trainee conducting
an interview using a human rights and trauma–informed approach at
the 2021 OSCE international simulation exercise in Vicenza, Italy.
(OSCE/Evan Karr)

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

Gender equality
Senior Advisor on Gender Issues: Amarsanaa Darisuren
Budget	

€437,100 (Unified Budget),
€661,160 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

11 (including 3 under an extrabudgetary project)

www.osce.org/secretariat/gender

Gender equality is an important cross-dimensional component of the OSCE’s comprehensive
approach to security. The Organization has intensified its efforts to build internal capacities for
mainstreaming gender perspectives in all its programmes, activities and initiatives. It also provides
vital support to participating States in key areas such as implementing the Women, Peace and
Security agenda; combating violence against women and girls; and promoting women’s economic
empowerment.

S T R E N G T H E N I N G T H E C A PAC I T Y O F
WO M E N PE AC E B U I LD E R S

working in peacebuilding across 14 regions. Participants
included internally displaced persons; representatives of
organizations supporting implementation of the Women,

The meaningful participation of women in peace processes

Peace and Security (WPS) agenda; and women active in

at all levels is a prerequisite for comprehensive security and

peacebuilding at the community level. This initiative was part

part of the comprehensive and cross-dimensional approach

of the large-scale, multi-year WIN project – Women and Men

to the OSCE’s work. Involving women from civil society

Innovating and Networking for Gender Equality – that aims

organizations in conflict prevention, mediation and other

to strengthen the role and capacity of women peacebuilders

forums and processes is critical.

across the OSCE region.

In partnership with the Women’s Information and

The workshops have “given us a possibility to understand

Consultative Center in Ukraine, the Secretariat’s Gender

how the WPS agenda can be implemented in our

Issues Programme organized three online capacity-building

communities,” said one of the participants. “Although I

workshops for 26 Ukrainian women civil society actors

worked in this area for four years, I obtained a broader

An OSCE capacity-building event for women’s civil society organizations in Ukraine. (Olena Suslova)

91

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

understanding and new knowledge.” The workshops included

including Peacebuilders and Mediators. “That is why, as an

training on communication and advocacy skills, mediation

International Gender Champion, I pledged my support to

techniques and inclusive peace process design. Interpretation

strengthening the meaningful participation of women in

in Ukrainian sign language was provided, a first for the OSCE

peace processes and will continue doing everything I can to

in this context.

support women peacebuilders, mediators and in leadership
positions in and around the OSCE area.”

“I am happy that the focus on women peacebuilders has
emerged,” said another workshop participant. “We should

The platform connects active women mediators and

prioritize it on the national agenda.”

peacebuilders in the OSCE region and beyond. “This
networking platform will provide safe spaces where women

Co-ordination and networking between women’s civil society

leaders, including peacebuilders and mediators, can share

organizations and national and local authorities were seen as

experiences and feel supported,” the Secretary General said.

critical to a unified approach to implementing the National

“Given the OSCE’s geographical reach, the Organization is

Action Plan on UN Security Council Resolution 1325, and to

well placed to provide these spaces to enhance women’s

the significant role of women in sustaining peace.

participation and influence in peace processes at all
levels.” One of its first activities will be a pilot mentorship

Workshop participants created a networking platform

programme to strengthen the capacity of women engaged in

for sharing experiences and practices among women

peacebuilding and mediation in the OSCE region.

peacebuilders throughout Ukraine and in other countries in
the OSCE region. “I understood that I am not alone with my

At the launch event, participants from across the region

problems,” one of them said. Networking is also an effective

discussed women’s contributions to peace processes globally

instrument for influencing discussions and decisions in

and what the OSCE can do to enhance women’s meaningful

relevant processes.

inclusion in effective peacebuilding. “So much learning we
can take away, especially about the importance of hope and

N E T WO R K I N G PL AT F O R M F O R
WO M E N LE A D E R S , I N C LU D I N G
PE AC E B U I LD E R S A N D M E D I AT O R S

support for women’s alliances,” said Oksana Potapova, a
women’s rights and peace activist from Ukraine.
“When women join peace processes, they have the
opportunity to bring women of different conflict strata

“A leading role for women at the peacebuilding table is not

together under the ‘women’s identity’ umbrella,” said Ayşe

a benefit; it is a necessity. They are half the population, and

Betül Çelik, the founder and leader of the Turkey Antenna

peace processes cannot be successful without them,” said

of the Mediterranean Women Mediators Network. “This can

OSCE Secretary General Helga Maria Schmid at the December

serve as a bridging factor, as an opportunity to discuss issues

launch of the Networking Platform for Women Leaders,

that divide them and find areas where they can collaborate.”

Online launch of the Networking Platform for Women Leaders, including Peacebuilders and Mediators, 7 December 2021. (OSCE)

92

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

Human resources
Director: Paolo Bernasconi
Budget	

€4,171,600 (Unified Budget),
€63,821 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff	

45 (including 1 under extrabudgetary indirect
common costs)

Director: Paolo Bernasconi (@paolo_berna) | LinkedIn
Paolo Bernasconi (@paolo_berna) | Twitter

www.osce.org/secretariat

The Department of Human Resources supports all executive structures in delivering their work on
behalf of participating States by attracting, managing, developing and retaining a capable, diverse
and committed workforce, while applying a robust HR regulatory framework.
In 2021, the Department continued to lead on people
management aspects of the Organization’s response to the
COVID-19 pandemic, protecting health and finding creative
ways to maintain uninterrupted operations in a new world
of remote work. The availability of health-related services
to fit the circumstances was vital; the first OSCE Chief
Medical Officer, who joined the Organization in 2021, raised
awareness and shared facts about the pandemic, provided
advice to the Secretary General and all executive structures,
and administered over 2,000 vaccinations to OSCE staff at
field operations and in Vienna thanks to generous support
from several participating States. Information on medical
assistance, evacuation plans and COVID-19 guidelines were
regularly adapted to the evolving situation and effectively
communicated across executive structures.
A key aspect of an innovative and enabling workplace is
leadership’s ability to harness the diversity of a workforce
drawn from across all participating States. The Department
upheld the OSCE 2004 Gender Action Plan by continuing to
apply innovative approaches to people management. The
implementation of the 2019–2026 Gender Parity Strategy
continued apace, with parity achieved at the Director level in
the Secretariat and the Deputy Head of Mission level at field
operations. Measures continued to focus on increasing the

OSCE Chief Medical Officer Dr. Gerald Ripberger prepares to administer

percentage of women at the P4+ and Head of Mission levels,

COVID-19 vaccinations to staff at the OSCE Mission in Kosovo. (OSCE)

where they continue to be underrepresented.
received a LinkedIn “Culture of Learning” award for public
The necessity of hybrid working arrangements resulted

organizations.

in greater efficiency thanks to increased digitalization of
HR processes, including recruitment, payroll, onboarding

The recruitment of the first full-time Ethics Co-ordinator

of new staff, e-learning and HR analytics. For example,

enhanced the OSCE’s ability to strengthen the overall

a new recruitment platform rolled out in 2021 provides

harmonization, co-ordination and coherence of ethics-related

improved capacity to streamline hiring processes and

standards, norms and policies for the entire Organization.

enhance the candidate experience. An expanded offering

Ethics outreach, learning and guidance provided across the

of online facilitator-led and e-learning supported the

OSCE help to prevent and address misconduct, support the

shift to remote work, with increased digital capabilities

Secretary General’s commitment to zero tolerance for any

also supporting increased collaboration across OSCE

form of harassment and ensure the highest standards of

locations. In recognition of this modernization, the OSCE

conduct and a respectful workplace.
93

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

Management and finance
Director: Gelfiya Shchienko
Budget	

€11,445,400 (Unified Budget),
€299,294 (extrabudgetary actual expenditure)

Staff 	

98.6

Director: Gelfiya Shchienko (@G_Shchienko) | Twitter
Gelfiya Shchienko | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/secretariat

The Department of Management and Finance contributes to security and co-operation in the OSCE
area by supporting all OSCE executive structures in the delivery of their mandates. It does so with a
goal of operational excellence, a spirit of continuous improvement and innovation, and a relentless
pursuit of efficiencies through simplification and streamlining of operations, backed by strong
internal control and risk management frameworks.

The Department of Management and Finance has a dual

beings in OSCE supply chains. A new paperless e-travel

mandate to provide administrative, information technology

solution was rolled out at the Secretariat and is being

and financial services as well as to develop and maintain the

developed for corporate use.

OSCE’s Common Regulatory Management System. These
roles are equally important in ensuring the efficient and

The Department provides essential ICT services to the

effective delivery of the Organization’s overall mandate.

entire Organization and has ensured business continuity
throughout the pandemic, enabling all stakeholders to deliver

In 2021, despite the challenges and constraints imposed by

on their respective mandates. Of particular importance in

the global pandemic, the Department successfully provided

2021 was the implementation of the new Secure Microsoft

uninterrupted service, support and advice to both internal

Infrastructure environment and the migration of several

stakeholders and the participating States.

executive structures. Keeping OSCE systems safe is an
ongoing challenge, which the Department addressed in

In the budget and finance area, the Department worked

2021 through the completion of an Information Security

closely with the executive structures on the preparation and

Enhancement programme and a new Security Incident and

on-time delivery of all Unified Budget–cycle documents. In

Event Management system.

2021, the Department fully implemented a new Hyperion
budgeting system on time and under budget. It also provided

The Department promotes the efficient and effective use of

high-quality accounting, treasury and extrabudgetary

OSCE financial and material resources through second-line-

donation management services. The Organization’s 2020

of-defence measures, risk management and information

financial statements were submitted on time and received an

security activities. In 2021, it developed a new information

unqualified audit opinion.

security risk assessment, risk treatment plans and an
updated risk registry; increased infosec awareness activities;

The Department also supports the executive structures

and updated a number of financial and administrative

with the management of their material resources through

instructions, in particular on assets, travel and information

the provision of client support and policy guidance

security, among others.

on procurement, assets, logistics, travel and facilities
management. For example, the procurement office
administered 135 corporate and local window contracts
for use by all structures. The Department also supported
development of the wider OSCE procurement community
through efforts aimed at combating trafficking in human

94

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

Internal oversight
Director: Susanne Frueh
Budget	

€1,828,900 (Unified Budget)

Staff	

16

Director: Susanne E. Frueh | LinkedIn

www.osce.org/secretariat

The Office of Internal Oversight is an integral part of a three-tier oversight system that plays a
key role in promoting efficient and effective management and performance of the Organization.
The Office’s internal work is complemented and overseen by an external, independent Audit
Committee. Assurance of the accuracy of the Organization’s annual financial statement is
provided by External Auditors.

Covering the entirety of the OSCE’s activities and executive

Ensuring that its oversight mandate extends throughout the

structures, the Office of Internal Oversight delivers three

Organization, the Office conducts specialized training for

core services: internal audits, independent evaluations and

field staff to build decentralized capacities. Furthermore,

investigations of the Organization’s operations, activities,

a vibrant evaluation network based on an approach of

outputs and progress towards outcomes. Its main role is to

learning and helping one another to learn brings together

provide assurance to participating States that governance,

staff from all executive structures and is the OSCE’s main

risk management and internal control processes are well

platform for strengthening the evaluation culture in the

functioning and that the Organization’s work is making a

Organization. The network’s ultimate goal is to enable all

difference in line with the mandates set by the participating

executive structures and the Organization at large to use

States. Another important role is to protect the Organization

evaluations to demonstrate evidence of results and added

from fraud and corruption and to ensure that any allegations

value, and to incorporate evaluation learning into new

of fraud or other misconduct are swiftly addressed

programmes and activities.

through professional investigations, which in turn enables
management to implement a zero-tolerance policy for fraud,
corruption and other kinds of misconduct. The Office’s
recommendations aim to improve the performance of the
Organization at all levels, and the Office monitors their
implementation and impact on a continuous basis.

95

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

PARTNERSHIPS
Security in the OSCE region is inseparably linked to that of neighbouring regions and
can be strengthened through dialogue and the sharing of commitments, resources and
expertise. The OSCE maintains privileged relations with 11 Asian and Mediterranean
Partners for Co-operation and continues to build on its extensive network of cooperative relationships with other international and regional organizations.

(Shutterstock/Jose Luis Carrascosa)

96

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

Asian Partners for
Co-operation
Asian Partners for Co-operation: Afghanistan, Australia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Thailand

Chair, OSCE Asian Partners for Co-operation Group: Albania

A S I A N PA R T N E R S F O R
CO - O PE R AT I O N G RO U P

The Special Meeting of the Asian Partners for Cooperation Group dedicated to the situation in

As Chair of the OSCE Asian Partners for Co-operation Group

Afghanistan featured reports about the situation

in 2021, Albania promoted and strengthened an open and

on the ground by senior UN officials, who drew

interactive dialogue among the Asian Partners and the OSCE

attention to the profound challenges facing the

participating States. Albania worked to strengthen mutual

country. The OSCE Secretary General underlined

relationships and build closer co-operation, aiming at an

the OSCE’s readiness to help within its existing

increased role for the Partners, all in compliance with the

mandate. When the situation in Afghanistan

2020 Tirana Ministerial Council Declaration on Co-operation

changed significantly three weeks later, a task force

with the Asian Partners.

was set up across OSCE executive structures to look
into the implications of these developments for

Aiming to organize more meetings than usual, Albania laid

Central Asia and the entire OSCE area, which helped

out a rich calendar of events for the Co-operation Group

prepare the ground for ministerial consultations at

aligned with the priorities of the Swedish OSCE Chair and

the Stockholm Ministerial Council.

the Asian Partners. This demand-driven approach promoted

Don Pramudwinai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Thailand, addresses the 2021 OSCE Asian Conference. (OSCE)

97

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

2 0 2 1 O S C E A S I A N CO N F E R E N C E
The 2021 OSCE Asian Conference, on common responses to
emerging challenges in advancing comprehensive security,
was held in a blended format (in Vienna and online) on
20 and 21 September. Organized in partnership with the
Kingdom of Thailand, the conference was attended by over
200 participants from OSCE participating States, Partners
for Co-operation, NGOs, civil society, and international and
regional organizations, who gathered to explore ways to
tackle global security challenges in the three dimensions of
the OSCE’s comprehensive approach to security. Specifically,
discussions focused on countering transnational organized
crime; transborder environmental risks and challenges
such as environmental degradation, the unsustainable use
(Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs of Albania)

of natural resources and climate change; and the nexus
between human rights and public health in the context of the

“As our 25 years of co-operation shows, we have

COVID-19 pandemic.

shared values, shared interests and shared
challenges – none greater right now than the

Other Asian Partnership events in 2021 included a webinar

COVID-19 pandemic.”

on terrorists’ use of the internet, an international online
round table on combating technology-facilitated trafficking in

Olta Xhaçka

human beings in Central Asia and in the OSCE Asian Partner

Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs of Albania,

countries, and the third Interregional Conference on Cyber/

addressing the 2021 OSCE Asian Conference

ICT Security.

extensive discussions on issues of common interest, with
the aim of advancing joint efforts to achieve comprehensive
security both within and beyond the OSCE area. Due to a
deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan, the Albanian
Chair organized the first-ever Special Meeting of the OSCE
Asian Partners for Co-operation Group, which focused on
regional implications of the evolving security situation in
Afghanistan.
As a result of continued restrictions on travel and meetings
due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all 2021 meetings of the
Asian Partners for Co-operation Group were conducted in
a blended format. Nonetheless, they provided a valuable
platform for information exchange, dialogue and sharing of
best practices between the OSCE participating States and the
Asian Partners for Co-operation, with each meeting featuring
at least one speaker from one of the Asian Partner countries,
as well as presentations by experts from international
organizations, diplomats, academics and representatives
of civil society. The meeting discussions focused on good
governance, rule of law and economic co-operation;
non-traditional security challenges; empowering women
leadership; and the situation on the Korean Peninsula.

98

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

Mediterranean Partners
for Co-operation
Mediterranean Partners for Co-operation: Algeria, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia

Chair, OSCE Mediterranean Partners for Co-operation Group: Poland

M E D I T E R R A N E A N PA R T N E R S
F O R CO - O PE R AT I O N G RO U P
As the 2021 Chair of the Mediterranean Partners for Cooperation Group, Poland promoted an interactive and
practically oriented OSCE Mediterranean Partnership with
a focus on increasing security in the OSCE region, including
by leveraging the full potential of closer dialogue and cooperation with the Mediterranean Partners.
Poland organized four meetings of the Mediterranean
Partners for Co-operation Group to promote dialogue on a
range of crucial topics, including post-pandemic recovery,
transnational organized crime, youth and illicit trafficking of
cultural goods.
Together with the Mediterranean Partners for Co-operation
and with the support of the OSCE Secretariat’s Transnational
Threats Department, the Polish Chair also worked throughout

OSCE/Mickey Kröll

the year on an initiative on transnational organized crime
and asset recovery. This endeavour resulted in a proposal

“For Poland, the dialogue with the Mediterranean

for an extrabudgetary project to strengthen the partnership

Partners is of great importance. We consider it a

with the Mediterranean Partners for Co-operation in asset

crucial component of the region’s enduring stability

recovery. The goal of the project is to improve regional

and security. Only through collective effort will we

co-operation and the effectiveness of the fight against

be able to face the challenges of today.”

transnational organized crime in the OSCE area and the
Mediterranean region. The Polish Chair laid the ground for

Zbigniew Rau

continued discussions and successful implementation of

Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland

this project in 2022 for the benefit of both the OSCE and the
Mediterranean regions.
The Partnership Fund supported a number of activities in
2021, including projects addressing human trafficking in

With the support of Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Malta and Portugal,

the context of Mediterranean migration movements and

Poland initiated a Young Political Advisors Course for young

the challenge posed by trafficking in cultural property. The

professionals from the Mediterranean region that will take

Partnership Fund continued to support activities in the field

place in 2022.

of youth engagement and women’s empowerment.
99

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

Piotr Wawrzyk, Deputy Foreign Minister of Poland, addressing the 2021 OSCE Mediterranean Partners Conference, Vienna, 12 October 2021. (OSCE)

2021 OSCE MEDITERR ANEAN
CO N F E R E N C E

security and co-operation in the Mediterranean in light of
the COVID-19 pandemic and was attended by 16 ministers
and deputy ministers from Partners for Co-operation and

The Mediterranean Conference, held on 12–13 October,

OSCE participating States, confirming the Mediterranean

provided a high-level political platform for advancing the

Conference as a ministerial-level forum for regional dialogue.

Mediterranean Partnership and for discussing security

Thematic sessions tackled specific aspects of post-pandemic

developments in the OSCE and Mediterranean regions. Titled

recovery, including promoting a sustainable and green

“Road to Resilience: Post-Pandemic Recovery and Security

recovery, fighting pandemic-related transnational organized

in the OSCE and Mediterranean Regions”, the conference

crime and combating human trafficking in labour markets

was attended by participants from over 50 countries. The

affected by the pandemic.

high-level political segment that opened the event addressed

100

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

Co-operation with international
and regional organizations
Co-operation with international and regional organizations

Organization, the European Union and NATO. Regional

amplifies the OSCE’s efforts to strengthen stability and

challenges and potential joint responses were discussed

security across its region and beyond. Over the years,

by OSCE field operations and representatives of partner

the OSCE has developed a large network of contacts with

organizations in the annual CPC-organized regional heads

organizations and institutions active in all three dimensions

of mission meetings. For example, the heads of the OSCE

of security. Political dialogue with these organizations fosters

field operations in Central Asia met with the EU Special

information exchange and sharing of good practices, while

Representative for Central Asia, the Secretary General of the

operational co-operation creates synergies, enabling the

Shanghai Cooperation Organization, and the head of the UN

OSCE to maximize the impact of its limited resources while

Regional Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia.

avoiding duplication.
Many operational activities implemented by OSCE field

P O LI T I C A L D I A LO G U E A N D
O PE R AT I O N A L CO - O PE R AT I O N
Despite continued pandemic conditions, the Secretariat
cautiously resumed in-person meetings with key partners
in 2021, including its annual high-level meeting with the

operations, institutions and the Secretariat are carried out in
collaboration with partner organizations. A few highlights of
joint activities in 2021 are highlighted below.

O S C E J O I N S G E N E R AT I O N E Q UA LI T Y
F O RU M

European Union and numerous meetings with senior officials
of UN agencies. The Secretary General also met with her
counterparts in a wide range of organizations, including
in-person meetings with the Secretary General of the
Commonwealth of Independent States, the Executive Director
of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building
Measures in Asia, and the Secretary General of the Collective
Security Treaty Organization.
The OSCE took part in the largest global gathering on gender
Other meetings took place online, such as the annual

equality since the 1995 World Conference on Women in

meetings of the Council of Europe–OSCE Co-ordination

Beijing, the Generation Equality Forum, which was convened

Group, and the webinar series on combating intolerance

by UN Women in partnership with civil society. The OSCE

and discrimination against migrants and refugees, jointly

pledged to work to advance gender equality by taking

organized with the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions

concrete action on gender-based violence, economic justice

and Human Rights, the OSCE Representative on Freedom

and rights, and technology and innovation for gender

of the Media, the OSCE Secretariat and the UN High

equality. ODIHR made commitments on gender-based

Commissioner for Refugees.

violence and feminist movements and leadership. The OSCE
also became a catalytic member of the Generation Equality

Political dialogue and operational co-operation were

Compact on Women, Peace and Security and Humanitarian

fostered through field visits by the Secretary General and the

Action, and will target two of the Compact’s priority areas:

Chairperson-in-Office, demonstrating how the willingness to

bringing together women mediators and peacebuilders,

keep an open dialogue between sides or with different actors

and partnering with women’s networks to advance their

helps achieve shared goals and commitments. In addition

leadership.

to institutional-level dialogue, the OSCE institutions, field
missions and Secretariat maintained working-level contacts
with partner organizations.

CO LL A B O R AT I O N W I T H F RO N T E X

High-level representatives of international and regional

In 2021, the OSCE, Frontex and a number of international

organizations took part in numerous OSCE in-person and

and national stakeholders published a handbook on firearms

online events in 2021. For example, the Annual Security

for border guards and customs officers, and finalized

Review Conference was attended by representatives

a handbook on minimum recommended capabilities

of the United Nations, the Collective Security Treaty

for document checks in border control. OSCE experts
101

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

Participants in a training course on identifying foreign terrorist fighters at borders that was run by the OSCE Mobile Training Team in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, 1 December 2021. (OSCE/Nikola Gaon)

participated in the annual Frontex Biometrics Conference,

not only law enforcement but also trafficking in human

and Frontex representatives contributed to the OSCE’s annual

beings, corruption and illicit trafficking of hazardous waste.

meeting for national focal points for border security and

OSCE’s co-operation with INTERPOL dates back to 2010.

management and participated in the fifth Annual Passenger
Data Exchange Seminar organized by the OSCE and the UN

INTERPOL contributed experts to OSCE mobile training team

Office of Counter-Terrorism. Frontex also sent an expert on

deployments on identification of potential foreign terrorist

risk analysis and management to the OSCE Mobile Training

fighters in Serbia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and

Team deployment to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The OSCE co-

provided expertise to regional cultural property protection

operates with Frontex on the basis of a working arrangement

training course for customs, border police, military, law

jointly signed in 2019.

enforcement and political officers from 10 countries.

I C AT R E CO M M E N DAT I O N S
T O PR E V E N T T R A F F I C K I N G
I N O RG A N R E M OVA L

A D D R E S S I N G T H E C LI M AT E
C H A N G E C H A LLE N G E I N T H E
MEDITERR ANEAN REGION

Thanks to close collaboration among the OSCE, the UN Office

The OSCE and the Union for the Mediterranean

on Drugs and Crime, the World Health Organization and the

joined the Rome-based Institute of International Affairs

Office of the High Commissioner on Human Rights, the Inter-

and the New-Med Research Network in organizing an

Agency Coordination Group against Trafficking in Persons

international conference on climate change and security in

(ICAT) published a paper on trafficking in human beings for

the Mediterranean region for governmental and academic

the purpose of organ removal. The paper provides practical

experts from the region. The conference provided the Co-

recommendations for States and all relevant stakeholders

ordinator of OSCE Economic and Environmental Activities

involved in preventing and combating this crime, which is one

with the opportunity to share information on the OSCE’s

of the least understood and least addressed forms of human

recent political commitments, programmatic experiences

trafficking globally.

and best practices, as well as prospects for advancing cooperation with the OSCE Mediterranean Partners for

CO LL A B O R AT I O N W I T H I N T E R P O L

Co-operation in the field of climate change. The event
was organized as follow-up to the memorandum of
understanding between the Secretariats of the OSCE and

In 2021, the OSCE and INTERPOL renewed their co-operation

the Union for the Mediterranean that was signed at the 2018

by signing a Joint Action Plan for 2021–2023. This new Action

OSCE Mediterranean Conference. 

Plan reflects a more comprehensive approach to their cooperation and expands the areas of collaboration to include
102

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

ANNEXES
OSCE staff at a glance

3,603

286

STAFF MEMBERS FROM

INTERNATIONAL CONTRACTED STAFF

COUNTRIES WORKING IN

INTERNATIONAL SECONDED STAFF

LOCATIONS IN THE OSCE AREA

LOCALLY RECRUITED STAFF

49

1,118

19

2,199

(all full-time staff, as of 31 December 2021)

Progress towards gender parity
International staff 2019	

2021

SENIOR MANAGEMENT

28% women / 72% men	

34% women / 66% men

CONTRACTED STAFF

42% women / 58% men	

43% women / 57% men

SECONDED STAFF

27% women / 73% men	

29% women / 71% men

TOTAL INTERNATIONAL STAFF

29% women / 71% men	

32% women / 68% men
Senior management: S4, DHoM, HoM, P5, D, HoI, SG
Contracted staff: P1–P4
Seconded staff: S–S3

103

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

2021 OSCE Unified Budget by Executive Structure (PC.DEC/1413)*
2021 Unified
Budget

2021
Expenditure

% of total
budget

 

 

 

The Secretariat

40.873.800

40.402.849

30%

Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights

16.394.000

16.122.125

12%

High Commissioner on National Minorities

3.504.000

3.372.188

3%

Representative on Freedom of the Media

1.608.800

1.509.480

1%

62.380.600

61.406.641

45%

Mission in Kosovo

17.462.600

17.461.622

13%

Mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina

11.682.000

11.568.547

8%

Mission to Serbia

6.258.600

6.258.229

5%

Presence in Albania

2.981.200

2.950.994

2%

Mission to Skopje

6.506.100

6.412.000

5%

Mission to Montenegro

2.152.100

1.989.615

2%

47.042.600

46.641.007

34%

Mission to Moldova

2.302.700

2.270.308

2%

Project Co-ordinator in Ukraine

3.618.500

3.554.940

3%

5.500

2.105

0%

5.926.700

5.827.352

4%

High-Level Planning Group

247.600

185.084

0%

The Minsk Process

911.200

328.423

1%

Personal Representative of the CiO on the Conflict Dealt
with by the Minsk Conference

1.179.700

994.890

1%

Total for Caucasus

2.338.500

1.508.397

2%

Programme Office in Nur-Sultan

2.232.700

2.179.427

2%

Centre in Ashgabat

1.661.200

1.652.350

1%

Programme Office in Bishkek

6.811.000

6.794.742

5%

Project Co-ordinator in Uzbekistan

2.499.200

2.470.659

2%

Programme Office in Dushanbe

7.311.600

7.242.898

5%

20.515.700

20.340.076

15%

75.823.500

74.316.833

55%

138.204.100

135.723.474

100%

 

THE SECRETARIAT AND INSTITUTIONS

TOTAL FOR THE SECRETARIAT AND INSTITUTIONS

OSCE FIELD OPERATIONS
South-Eastern Europe

Total for South-Eastern Europe
Eastern Europe

Representative to the Latvian-Russian Joint Commission
on Military Pensioners
Total for Eastern Europe
Caucasus

Central Asia

Total for Central Asia
TOTAL FOR OSCE FIELD OPERATIONS
GRAND TOTAL

104

*	

The Unified budget excludes the Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine and the Observer Mission at the Russian Checkpoints Gukovo and Donetsk.

*	

The 2021 OSCE Unified budget was approved by the Permanent Council Decision (PC.DEC/1413) on 18 August 2021.

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

Central Asia
20.515.700
15%

138.204.100
100%

Caucasus
2.338.500
2%

Eastern Europe
5.926.700
4%

The Secretariat
40.873.800
30%

South-Eastern Europe
47.042.600
34%

Institutions
21.506.800
16%

105

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

Contributions by participating States
TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS
TOWARDS 2021
UNIFIED BUDGET (€)

% OF
TOTAL

478,373.09

0.3%

Malta

94,943.23

0.1%

0.0%

Moldova

45,758.48

0.0%

3,189,241.33

2.3%

Monaco

91,052.63

0.1%

45,758.48

0.0%

Mongolia

45,758.48

0.0%

Belarus

200,222.92

0.1%

Montenegro

45,758.48

0.0%

Belgium

4,600,337.45

3.3%

Netherlands

5,403,215.09

3.9%

91,052.63

0.1%

North
Macedonia

91,052.63

0.1%

369,425.48

0.3%

Norway

2,848,746.43

2.1%

Canada

7,494,844.12

5.4%

Poland

1,632,319.65

1.2%

Croatia

200,338.27

0.1%

Portugal

1,027,590.20

0.7%

Cyprus

199,734.35

0.1%

Romania

455,727.48

0.3%

Czech Republic

671,045.52

0.5%

2,855,087.91

2.1%

Russian
Federation

5,568,829.50

4.0%

Estonia

129,703.64

0.1%

San Marino

91,052.63

0.1%

Finland

2,646,700.80

1.9%

Serbia

100,111.46

0.1%

France

14,277,462.25

10.3%

Slovak Republic

285,816.01

0.2%

45,758.48

0.0%

Slovenia

268,429.75

0.2%

15,030,785.84

10.9%

Spain

6,657,417.21

4.8%

1,158,662.59

0.8%

Sweden

4,596,098.46

3.3%

Holy See

91,052.63

0.1%

Switzerland

3,813,504.50

2.8%

Hungary

656,830.58

0.5%

45,758.48

0.0%

Iceland

184,775.89

0.1%

1,193,550.47

0.9%

Ireland

1,067,655.51

0.8%

45,758.48

0.0%

14,241,703.37

10.3%

519,603.62

0.4%

Kazakhstan

264,099.06

0.2%

United Kingdom

14,276,010.41

10.3%

Kyrgyzstan

45,758.48

0.0%

133,594.24

0.1%

United States of
America

17,838,769.00

12.9%

91,052.63

0.1%

250,278.65

0.2%

133,594.24

0.1%

48,673.07

0.0%

138,204,100.00

100.0%

TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS
TOWARDS 2021
UNIFIED BUDGET (€)

% OF
TOTAL

Albania

91,052.63

0.1%

Luxembourg

Andorra

91,052.63

0.1%

Armenia

45,758.48

PARTICIPATING
STATE

Austria
Azerbaijan

Bosnia and
Herzegovina
Bulgaria

Denmark

Georgia
Germany
Greece

Italy

Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania

106

PARTICIPATING
STATE

Tajikistan
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Ukraine

Uzbekistan
Gap in Scales
Total

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

Extrabudgetary pledges and voluntary contributions
Donor

Pledge Amount (€)

Executive Structure

Andorra

20,000

Austria

516,300

Secretariat Unallocated Funds*

149,661

Belgium

710,000

Bulgaria

40,000

Office for Democratic Inst. and
Human Rights

7,265,004

Canada

654,617

Central European Initiative (CEI)

5,145

Cyprus

2,000

Czech Republic
European Union

218,273
21,329,649

Secretariat

Pledge Amount (€)

High Commissioner on
National Minorities

390,992

Representative on Freedom of
the Media

469,015

Mission in Kosovo

257,852

Finland

745,378

Mission to Bosnia and
Herzegovina

France

836,500

Mission to Serbia

Germany
Greece

9,675,431
17,000

18,745,499

2,134,004
285,373

Presence in Albania

1,194,289

Mission to Skopje

1,381,735

Hungary

177,000

Mission to Montenegro

18,754

Ireland

170,000

Mission to Moldova

60,000

Italy

307,000

Project Co-ordinator in Ukraine

Japan

675,326

Latvia

10,000

Representative to the LatvianRussian Joint Comm.on MPs

 

High-Level Planning Group

 

The Minsk Process

 

Personal Representative
of the CiO

 

Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg

107,586
30,000
150,000

Malta

25,000

Monaco

15,000

Netherlands

1,250,318

Norway

15,253

Poland

694,803

Programme Office in
Nur-Sultan

258,000

Centre in Ashgabat

150,000

Programme Office in Bishkek

Portugal

90,000

Project Co-ordinator in
Uzbekistan

Romania

10,000

Programme Office in Dushanbe

Russian Federation

5,997

Slovakia

36,000

Slovenia

17,000

South Korea

84,700

Spain
Sweden
Switzerland

171,777

1,053,464
189,702
6,300

Special Monitoring Mission in
Ukraine

14,454,917

Grand Total

53,051,540

*	

Unallocated extrabudgetary contributions are funds provided by donors to the
OSCE without allocating contributions to a specific extrabudgetary project at
the time of acceptance.

1,493,381
743,132

The Coca Cola Foundation

82,400

Turkey

67,628

United Kingdom

727,096

United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP)

157,000

United States

10,967,851

Grand Total*

53,051,540

*	

4,586,979

Voluntary contributions to the Special Monitoring Mission to
Ukraine are included.

107

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

Extrabudgetary expenditures*
Executive Structure
Secretariat

Actual Expenditures (€)
8,748,935

Secretariat Unallocated Funds
Office for Democratic Inst. and
Human Rights

4,277,417

High Commissioner on
National Minorities

546,915

Representative on Freedom of
the Media

390,979

Mission in Kosovo

460,470

Mission to Bosnia and
Herzegovina

760,518

Mission to Serbia

1,121,098

Presence in Albania

1,405,078

Mission to Skopje

1,110,700

Mission to Montenegro
Mission to Moldova
Project Co-ordinator in Ukraine

227,318
42,722
3,019,712

Representative to the LatvianRussian Joint Comm.on MPs

 

High-Level Planning Group

 

The Minsk Process

 

Personal Representative of the
CiO

 

Programme Office in NurSultan

161,666

Centre in Ashgabat

119,954

Programme Office in Bishkek

901,641

Project Co-ordinator in
Uzbekistan

329,773

Programme Office in Dushanbe

2,920,221

Special Monitoring Mission in
Ukraine

8,414,474

Total

34,959,592

* Actual expenditure figures do not include obligations. This applies to all actual
expenditure figures throughout this document.

108

O S C E A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 021

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

