UNISDR
ANNUAL REPORT
2016

In support of the Sendai Framework
for Disaster Risk Reduction

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

© 2017 UNITED NATIONS
For additional information, please contact:
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR)
9-11 Rue de Varembé, 1202 Geneva, Switzerland, Tel: +41 22 917 89 08
Note: The designations employed and the presentation of maps in this report do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations
concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities or concerning
the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
Cover Photo: A tsunami preparedness drill at a multipurpose cyclone shelter in a Odisha fishing
village in Ganjam district Patisunapu, Odisha.

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

UNISDR
ANNUAL REPORT
2016

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 4

FOREWORD

The momentum gained from the adoption
of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk
Reduction 2015-2030 continued to energize
progress on reducing disaster losses
worldwide in 2016. International Day for
Disaster Reduction was focused on target (a)
of the Sendai Framework reducing disaster
mortality; on the day we recognized efforts
in disaster events as various as the threat of
an Ebola outbreak in Nigeria, El Niño in Peru, and a Category 5 cyclone in Fiji.
The year was also marked by India’s launch of its first ever national disaster
management plan which is based on the four priorities of the Sendai Framework.
Indeed, it was wonderful to hear the Indian Prime Minister, Mr. Narendra Modi,
urge participants to “embrace the spirit of Sendai” at the Asia-Pacific Ministerial
Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction where we also commemorated the firstever World Tsunami Awareness Day.
In addition to being the first pillar of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda
to be adopted by UN Member States, the Sendai Framework has also become
the first of the interlocking components of the 2030 Agenda to have indicators
adopted to measure the achievement of its seven global targets. This was thanks
to the tireless work of the Open-Ended Intergovernmental Expert Working Group
on Indicators and Terminology relating to Disaster Risk Reduction (OIEWG)
which met in three formal sessions over the last 18 months. This work was done
in parallel with that of the Inter-Agency and Expert Group on SDG Indicators
and resulted in the adoption of OIEWG recommendations for the measurement
of disaster-related targets for three of the 17 SDGs including SDG1 on the
eradication of poverty. Disaster risk reduction is clearly seen as a lynch-pin of the
2030 Sustainable Development Agenda with strong links to the achievement of
the other elements including the Paris Agreement on climate change.
I was also encouraged to see at first hand the progress that is being made at
regional and national level, supported by UNISDR and our many partners, in
moving “from commitment to action,” the slogan for the forthcoming Global
Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction which will be hosted in Cancun, Mexicoin
May, 2017.
Countries from some of the world’s most disaster-prone regions are moving
forward on building resilience to disasters. This is evident from the pace of
progress in Africa, Europe, the Americas, the Pacific, Central Asia and the South
Caucasus. These regions have all demonstrated their commitment to meeting the
first deadline of the Sendai Framework by substantially increasing the number
of national and local strategies for disaster risk reduction by 2020. Development
of the Sendai Framework Monitor is well underway and the prototype will be
presented at the Global Platform.

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 5

My many encounters with national leaders and discussions with key stakeholders
throughout this busy first year in office, have reinforced the importance of
UNISDR’s role in the implementation of the Sendai Framework.
In order to deliver on the overall objective of UNISDR’s Strategic Framework
2016-2020: the prevention of new and reduction of existing disaster risk
and strengthening resilience through successful multi-hazard disaster risk
management, we now have in place a four-year Work Programme. In July 2016
we initiated an organizational review and change management process.
My goal is to ensure that UNISDR has the resources and personnel to strengthen
our capacity to deliver on our mandate in an efficient and effective manner.
Improvements in our operational performance is focussed on eight priority areas:
a new organizational structure; resource mobilisation; internal and external
communication; people management; staff capacity development; business
processes and policies; and a partnership engagement strategy.
It has been an intense and exciting first 12 months. I am greatly looking forward
to 2017, particularly the outcomes of the Global Platform which will spur and
guide our efforts to implement the Sendai Framework. I would like to thank all
those who help to make this work possible, particularly our highly committed
donors and especially our hard-working staff.

Robert Glasser
UN Special Representative of the Secretary-General
for Disaster Risk Reduction

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The year 2016 was transformative for UNISDR internally, UNISDR aligned its work in support of
the implementation of the Sendai Framework
for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 with the
organisational vision of its new senior management
team. This resulted in the implementation of a new
Strategic Framework 2016-2021, Work Programme
2016-2019 and a change management process.
Externally, UNISDR facilitated and steered the
global community’s transition from the Hyogo
Framework for Action to the Sendai Framework
and helped translate the Sendai Framework into
policies, plans and action.

Report Risk Atlas, using UNISDR’s updated multihazard, probabilistic Global Risk Assessment.

This is the first Annual Report against the UNISDR
Work Programme 2016-2019, which comprises
the following Strategic Objectives and Enablers:
SO1- Strengthen global monitoring, analysis and
coordination of Sendai Framework implementation;
SO2- Support regional and national Sendai
Framework implementation; SO3- Catalyse action
through Member States and Partners; Enabler 1Effective knowledge management, communication
and global advocacy; and Enabler 2- Strengthened
organisational performance. In addition to
reporting against the Strategic Objectives and
Enablers, this report provides an overview of the
2016 results achieved by UNISDR’s five Regional
Offices in Africa, the Arab States, the Americas,
Europe and Asia-Pacific. The accompanying results
framework and 2016 UNISDR certified financial
statement will be posted at: www.unisdr.org/whowe-are/donors.1

SO2: SUPPORT TO REGIONAL AND
NATIONAL SENDAI FRAMEWORK
IMPLEMENTATION

SO1: STRENGTHEN GLOBAL
MONITORING, ANALYSIS AND
COORDINATION OF SENDAI
FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION
UNISDR provided political, policy, legal, procedural
advice and logistical support to the Open-ended
Intergovernmental Expert Working Group on
Indicators and Terminology Relating to Disaster
Risk Reduction (OIEWG). This contributed to the
OIEWG’s reaching agreement on the indicators to
monitor and report against the seven global targets
of the Sendai Framework, as well as the first set
of terminology for disaster risk reduction agreed
through an intergovernmental process.
Also during 2016, UNISDR requested an independent
evaluation of its authoritative Global Assessment
Report on Disaster Risk Reduction to improve its
risk knowledge services and prepared the first
product in a new series, the Global Assessment

An additional key activity was the preparations
for the 2017 Global Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction,
which
entailed
extensive
multistakeholder consultations and design work, in
consultation with the host country, the Government
of Mexico. The Global Platform will assess progress
on Sendai Framework implementation and share
innovative practices and knowledge on disaster riskinformed policies, programmes and investments.

Regional Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction
are recognised by the United Nations General
Assembly as a critical part of the global disaster
risk reduction architecture. UNISDR supported the
convening of Regional and Sub-Regional Platforms
in Africa, Asia, Europe, the Pacific, Central Asia
and the South Caucasus, and Central Africa;
regional ministerial meetings in the Americas and
Arab States; and preparation of 2017 Regional
Platforms in the Americas, Europe and the Arab
States. The meetings agree on regional disaster
risk reduction plans and strategies and result in
multi-stakeholder commitments.
UNISDR strengthened its technical support to
United Nations Resident Coordinators and United
Nations Country Teams to ensure that the United
Nations Development Assistance Frameworks and
Common Country Assessments (CCA/UNDAF)
are risk-informed. The United Nations Plan of
Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience:
Towards a Risk-informed and Integrated Approach
to Sustainable Development, agreed by more
than 45 United Nations entities, and convened
by UNISDR, outlines the key steps for integrating
and internalising disaster risk reduction across
the United Nations System’s processes, policies
and programmes. It includes a Results Framework
through which the UN System intends to hold
itself accountable for delivering the changes
called for in the Plan of Action.
UNISDR supported the development and use
of disaster loss databases in over 30 countries
and conducted workshops with government
officials and other stakeholders to translate
risk knowledge into risk financing, development
planning and public investment decision-making.

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 7

UNISDR Regional Offices supported National
Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction to integrate
the Sendai Framework into their structures,
strategies and plans. More generally, the UNISDR
Global Education and Training Institute (GETI)
delivered capacity development workshops to over
1,200 national and local government officials and
private sector representatives from 46 countries
to strengthen disaster risk reduction in support of
national and local implementation of the Sendai
Framework.
To accelerate local implementation of the Sendai
Framework, UNISDR updated the Ten Essentials
for Making Cities Resilient and collected best
practices from more than 30 cities to develop a
new Handbook for Local Governments.

SO3: CATALYSE ACTION THROUGH
MEMBER STATES AND PARTNERS
UNISDR strengthened policy coherence among the
disaster risk reduction, sustainable development and
climate change agendas by providing substantive
and logistical support to a variety of organisations
both within and outside the UN system, including the
ISDR Support Group in Geneva, the New York-based
Group of Friends, and the Ministerial Declaration of
the 2016 High-level Political Forum on Sustainable
Development.
UNISDR policy advice resulted in furthering the
integration of disaster risk reduction in regulatory
frameworks such as the Committee of the Convention
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the UN
International Law Commission, and the Committee
of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination Against Women.
UNISDR
further
strengthened
its
dynamic
partnership with the private sector, the Private
Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies
(ARISE), to build understanding of the hidden
disaster risk-related liabilities for businesses and
supported ARISE members to draft and launch a
strategy for Sendai Framework implementation.
To coordinate the Science and Technology
communities’ support to Sendai implementation,
UNISDR convened a major meeting of more than
700 science and technology experts. The outcomes
included a 15-year road map with clear expected
results and indicators, the launch of a Science and
Technology DRR Partnership, and various regional
initiatives which are underway.

ENABLER 1: EFFECTIVE KNOWLEDGE
MANAGEMENT, COMMUNICATION AND
GLOBAL ADVOCACY
UNISDR designed the Sendai Seven Campaign:
Seven Targets, Seven Years, launched by the
United Nations Secretary-General and the Special
Representative of the Secretary-General for
Disaster Risk Reduction on International Day
for Disaster Reduction, 13 October, along with a
special report Poverty & Death related to Sendai
Framework Target A, to substantially reduce global
disaster mortality by 2030. UNISDR was also
responsible for advocacy in support of the new
World Tsunami Awareness Day, on 5 November.
UNISDR global advocacy efforts included a relaunch
of the Making Cities Resilient Campaign, which since
2010 has grown into a network of 3,457 cities, the
Worldwide Initiative for Safe Schools, leadership in
the conceptualisation of the Climate Risk and Early
Warning Systems (CREWS) in partnership with the
World Meteorological Organisation and The World
Bank, and the launch of a new Global Roster of
Women Leaders and Gender Experts in Disaster
Risk Reduction.
In 2016, UNISDR continued efforts to raise
appropriate, sustainable and predictable financial
resources to support the work embodied in the
UNISDR Work Programme 2016-2019, and met its
US$30 million target for 2016.

ENABLER 2: STRENGTHENED
ORGANISATIONAL PERFORMANCE
The UNISDR Strategic Framework 2016-2021,
finalised over the course of 2016, defines UNISDR’s
vision and role in the implementation of the Sendai
Framework.
The UNISDR Work Programme 2016-2019 details
fifteen results and describes the thirty deliverables
required to achieve the Strategic Framework’s
objectives. The Work Programme includes a Results
Framework that defines indicators, baselines and
targets to monitor progress towards implementation
of the Work Programme.
UNISDR’s Organisational Review and Change
Management Process, which aims to make UNISDR
more fit for purpose to deliver its mandate, is
underpinned by commitments to strengthen
organisational performance, enhance effectiveness
and efficiency.

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 8

UNISDR WORK PROGRAMME OVERVIEW 2016-2019
VISION The substantial reduction of disaster risk and losses for a sustainable future.
MANDATE

Focal point of the United Nations system for disaster risk reduction and the custodian
of the Sendai Framework, supporting countries and societies in its implementation, monitoring and
review of progress.

OVERARCHING OBJECTIVE The prevention of new and reduction of existing disaster

Strategic Objectives

risk and strengthening resilience through successful multi-hazard disaster risk management.

1

Strengthen global
monitoring, analysis
and coordination of
Sendai Framework
implementation

1.1

Global Progress of
the Sendai Framework
& related SDG targets
assessed

Results

1.2

Global risk data,
analysis and policy
advice generated

1.3

Global coordination
and accountability
mechanisms
convened

2

Support to regional
and national
Sendai Framework
implementation

2.1

Regional & national
coordination mechanisms leveraged to
monitor & accelerate
Sendai Framework

2.2

National disaster risk
reduction strategies
& plans developed
in line with Sendai
Framework prescribed
guidance

2.3

Build capacity of
counterparts, UNCTs
and partners for DRR
leadership

3

Catalyse action
through Member
States and Partners

3.1

Fostered policy
coherence by
engaging with member
States & contributing
to relevant intergovernmental processes

3.2

Coordination &
advice provided to
UN System partners at
global level towards
effective & efficient
Sendai Framework
implementation

3.3

All of society
engagement and
action promoted
trough strengthening
partnerships with key
stakeholders

Enablers

3.4

Enabler 1:

Effective knowledge management, communication
and global advocacy

Enabler 2:

Strengthened organizational performance

Partnerships leveraged for increased
financing for disaster
risk reduction and
risk-sensitive investment

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 9

1 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE

STRENGTHEN GLOBAL MONITORING, ANALYSIS AND
COORDINATION OF SENDAI FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION

Following work initiated in 2015, United Nations Member States through the Open-ended
Intergovernmental Expert Working Group on Indicators and Terminology relating
to Disaster Risk Reduction (OIEWG), agreed upon indicators to monitor and report
against the seven global targets of the Sendai Framework, as well as the first set of
terminology for disaster risk reduction agreed through an intergovernmental process. The
indicators and terminology were endorsed by the UN General Assembly in February 2017
(A/RES/71/276) and set the foundation for the new monitoring system for the Sendai
Framework. UNISDR served as the secretariat of the OIEWG and provided the group, its
Chair, Permanent Missions and experts with technical, political, policy, legal, procedural
advice and logistical support to ensure positive and successful deliberations through days
of formal and informal sessions and meetings.2 At the request of Member States in the
OIEWG, UNISDR produced technical papers and non-papers offering proposals on metadata
and addressing critical issues, including technical feasibility, computation methodology and
data availability.3
In parallel, UNISDR sought to promote the coherence of the work of the OIEWG with that
of the Inter-Agency and Expert Group on Sustainable Development Goal Indicators
(IAEG-SDGs), which is developing the global indicator framework for the SDGs. Thanks
to UNISDR’s efforts, the IAEG-SDGs formally recognised the work of the OIEWG in
its deliberations and subsequently adopted the recommendations of the OIEWG for the
measurement of disaster-related targets of SDGs 1, 11 and 13. In so doing, UNISDR
ensured the possibility of integrated and multi-purpose reporting.4
As the OIEWG concluded its work, UNISDR amplified its efforts with the international
statistical community to align frameworks, standards and classifications for disaster-related
statistics, building on the work to date led by the national statistics offices of the Europe and
Asia-Pacific regions. Extensive work with national statistics offices, the statistical divisions
of UN DESA (Secretariat of the IAEG-SDGs), and the regional economic commissions,
enables integrated monitoring and reporting using multi-purpose data sources across
the frameworks that make up the 2030 Agenda. A global partnership is emerging that is
pursuing this collaborative work and will assure continued interaction with the IAEG-SDGs
and the High Level Group for Partnership, Coordination and Capacity-Building for post2015 monitoring (HLG) in the roll-out of global monitoring frameworks for both the Sendai
Framework and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
UNISDR began the design and development of the Sendai Framework Monitor to support
States in the collection of data and the establishment of baselines required to report on
progress in achieving the Sendai Targets against the agreed set of indicators through
periodic national self-assessment, using national disaster loss databases and other relevant
national datasets. The prototype will be presented at the 2017 Global Platform for Disaster
Risk Reduction.5 The Sendai Framework Monitor will include options for monitoring nationally
developed targets and indicators.

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 10

In 2016, UNISDR contracted an independent evaluation team to assess and provide
recommendations regarding its flagship publication, the Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction (GAR). The GAR, published biannually since 2009, provides
an in-depth analysis of risk trends and patterns, progress and challenges in disaster risk
reduction. Based on the evaluation recommendations, UNISDR began planning future GAR
publications, including completing a draft of The GAR Atlas will be launched at the Global
Platform.
The GAR Atlas is a key output of the multi-hazard probabilistic Global Risk Assessment,
which, UNISDR and core members of its Science and Technology Partnership updated,
enhanced and expanded in 2016. In line with the evaluation recommendations, the results
of the assessment are designed to be presented in a visually appealing and innovative
manner, with an online version, an application with a small physical globe, and a largesize printed publication. Enhanced content in the print version was designed to link to an
application that makes available the updated risk metrics and hazard data across all main
physical hazards.
The GAR Atlas compares the value of potential economic losses in the global built
environment with a variety of economic metrics relating to capital stock, investment,
social expenditure and fiscal strength. This comparison makes it possible to estimate the
implications of disaster risk for development in each national economy. The GAR Atlas
thus provides risk metrics that could support decision makers in national planning and
finance ministries to adopt more effective risk management strategies, in the context
of the Sendai Framework. The risk metrics presented in the GAR Atlas will also provide
insight for the private sector, including the insurance industry. Revealing the levels of risk
hidden in national economies and their urban centres can inform investment flows in a
way that prevents the generation of new disaster risk, as well as enabling businesses and
financial institutions to assess the implications of existing risk embedded in value chains
and asset portfolios. The GAR Atlas will thus contribute to a transition from the sort of riskblind investment that constructs avoidable disasters towards pathways of risk-informed
investment that will contribute to strengthened social and economic resilience and the
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
In 2016, UNISDR put significant effort into preparing for the 2017 Global Platform
for Disaster Risk Reduction, to be hosted by the Government of Mexico in Cancún in
May 2017. The role of the ISDR Support Group was enhanced through the creation of a
dedicated Task Force for the organisation and follow-up the Global Platform.6 Starting in
May 2016, UNISDR conducted an extensive consultation exercise with governments and
stakeholders to formulate the agenda, draft session concept notes and choose speakers
for the Global Platform. Numerous rounds of consultations on the draft Global Platform
outcome documents were conducted. Coordination and engagement with stakeholders were
also strengthened. Fifteen stakeholder groups, endorsed by Governments, were consulted
on the substantive development process of the Global Platform and will be engaged in coChairing and speaking at various sessions in Cancún.
The Global Platform will take stock of the progress made in implementing the Sendai
Framework, with a specific focus on its looming Target E to substantially increase the
number of countries with disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020, as well as Targets A to
D on reducing global disaster mortality and direct disaster-related economic loss by 2030.
Progress in defining baselines and risk profiles, including the establishment or enhancement
of systems to record disaster losses, will also be examined, while the announcement of

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 11

cutting-edge disaster risk reduction initiatives will help drive implementation. The Global
Platform will be informed by the discussions and outcomes of ministerial meetings and
Regional Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction (see below) that took place in 2016.
In preparation for the Global Platform, UNISDR drafted policy options concerning Sendai
Framework implementation, identified options at the Global Platform to achieve consensus,
and ensured that the deliberations are in synch with, and contribute to, the work of the
High-Level Political Forum for Sustainable Development. UNISDR also organised extensive
logistical arrangements and substantive support to deliver four plenaries, 15 working
sessions, many side events and several other interactive events in Cancún.

2 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE

SUPPORT TO REGIONAL AND NATIONAL SENDAI
FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION

Regional Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction are key instruments to advance
the implementation of the Sendai Framework. In 2016, Regional Platforms and SubRegional Platforms were held in Africa, Asia, Europe, the Pacific, Central Asia and the
South Caucasus, and Central Africa. In the Americas and Arab States, ministerial meetings
were held in 2016. Preparations are well under way for Regional Platforms in the Americas,
Europe and the Arab States to be organised in 2017 (more details are provided in the
regional section, page 19).
UNISDR provided technical support to, and worked closely with, regional organisations
to play a central role in reducing disaster risk through the exchange of good practice, the
standardisation of region-specific codes and guidelines, the adoption of common information
and early warning systems, the dissemination of tried and tested tools and methodologies,
and the development of regional strategies for disaster risk reduction. In 2016, with UNISDR
support, a number of regional intergovernmental organisations aligned their work with the
Sendai Framework. Examples include the endorsement of the Programme of Action for
the Implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 20152030 in Africa and the European Forum for Disaster Risk Reduction Road Map
2016-2020 (more information is available in the regional section, page 19).
UNISDR strengthened its technical support to United Nations Resident Coordinators and
United Nations Country Teams to ensure that the United Nations Development Assistance
Frameworks and Common Country Assessments (CCA/UNDAF) are risk-informed. A key tool
in this work was the 2016 launch of the United Nations Plan of Action on Disaster
Risk Reduction for Resilience: Towards a Risk-informed and Integrated Approach
to Sustainable Development. More than 45 United Nations entities committed to this
document, which, outlines the key steps for integrating and internalising disaster risk
reduction across the United Nations System’s processes, policies and programmes.
Countries need national disaster loss data to establish baselines in order to start monitoring
the implementation of the Sendai Framework and common targets of the Sustainable
Development Goals. Disaster loss databases are a key tool for providing this information
and UNISDR has worked with over 92 countries to develop them.7 In 2016, UNISDR increased

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 12

the capacity of 10 countries in Africa by training government officials, United Nations staff
and government consultants in the concepts and use of the software DesInventar.7 UNISDR
also supported the building of new databases containing more than 20 years of disaster
loss and damage data, providing them with technical support in the form of data gap
analyses, funding required to conduct the historical research, and supporting the production
of preliminary analyses. In countries that had previously finished initial databases, UNISDR
conducted a series of policy dialogues and workshops to translate the knowledge of risks
gained through the databases into development planning and public investment decisionmaking.8
Target E of the Sendai Framework, to substantially increase the number of countries with
national and local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020, is a prerequisite for
achieving the other targets. It committed Member States to developing new, and improving
existing, disaster risk reduction strategies and plans with clear targets and indicators by
2020. UNISDR prepared a draft guidance notes for countries for the development of national
strategies based on a review of existing strategies, and using advice from a group of experts
(including national government representatives and technical experts). The draft concept
note was used by UNISDR Regional Offices to advise various countries. This work contributed
to the development of new strategies, including India’s launch of its first National Disaster
Management Plan based on the four priorities for action of the Sendai Framework (for more,
see the regional section, page 19).
UNISDR also partnered with UN Women to develop a gender marker that will help
governments develop gender-sensitive national disaster risk reduction strategies and/or
plans by 2020, and to monitor and report on their implementation. UNISDR Regional Offices
also supported national coordination mechanisms and National Platforms for Disaster
Risk Reduction, including advising on adjustments in light of the Sendai Framework.
In 2016, UNISDR developed pilot local indicators aligned with the Sendai Framework through
a multi-stakeholder consultative process, and worked closely with ten cities in ten different
countries to pilot them for voluntary use by local governments.9 UNISDR also updated the
Ten Essentials for Making Cities Resilient to accelerate local implementation of the
Sendai Framework. Building on the Ten Essentials, UNISDR collected best practices from
more than 30 cities to develop a new Handbook for Local Governments to be launched at
the Global Platform. UNISDR also engaged actively in the Habitat III Conference and in
supporting the formulation of the New Urban Agenda, which, fully incorporates disaster risk
reduction and the Sendai Framework.
The UNISDR Global Education and Training Institute (GETI) continued to deliver capacity
development programmes to support national and local implementation of the Sendai
Framework. The year saw increased demand for follow-up programming, with a particular
focus on training of trainers’ workshops engaging the private sector, national and local
governments. Fifty new events and training workshops were organised to meet this
increased demand. A total of 1,224 national and local government officials and private sector
representatives from 46 countries were trained in 2016. Twenty-eight training events centred
on national and local resilience planning, with the focus being the development of action
plans to align existing policy, plans or legislation to the Sendai Framework, in coherence
with the Paris Agreement and the SDGs. Twenty-two events were on local implementation of
the Sendai Framework in line with the Making Cities Resilient Campaign.

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

3 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE

UNISDR Annual Report 2016

CATALYSE ACTION THROUGH MEMBER STATES AND PARTNERS

UNISDR continued to strengthen policy coherence across the disaster risk reduction,
sustainable development and climate change agendas by providing technical support to a
variety of intergovernmental and informal mechanisms. The Geneva-based ISDR Support
Group, with UNISDR as the secretariat, was a key reference point for policy and political
exchanges on Sendai Framework implementation, disaster risk reduction and links with other
UN agendas. Other intergovernmental processes supported by UNISDR included drafting the
conclusions and recommendations of the report of the Secretary-General and written inputs for
other reports of the Secretary-General on the coherent, efficient and inclusive follow-up and
review at the global level of the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs. In addition, UNISDR contributed
to the main themes for the ECOSOC sessions of 2017, 2018 and 2019, the restructuring of
the agenda of the Second Committee of the UN General Assembly, and the draft Ministerial
Declaration of the 2016 High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development.
UNISDR provided legal and policy advice to the UN International Law Commission, the
Committee of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and the Committee
on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). This contributed to the
UN International Law Commission defining an international legal obligation for
each state to reduce disaster risk, based on the Sendai Framework. In addition,
the secretariat of the Committee of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Disabilities integrated the Sendai Framework’s key tenets in the Guidelines to State Parties
on periodic reporting to the Committee.10 UNISDR guidance also contributed to the CEDAW
Draft General Recommendation No. 35 on the Gender-Related Dimensions of
Disaster Risk Reduction in a Changing Climate.
UNISDR has a key coordinating role in the United Nations system, and UNISDR’s interagency coordination engagement strengthened the ability of the United Nations to support
countries in the implementation of the Sendai Framework. This included convening the
first United Nations Senior Leadership Group on Disaster Risk Reduction and the
United Nations Disaster Risk Reduction Focal Points Group. UNISDR led and facilitated the
roll-out and implementation of the revised United Nations Plan of Action on Disaster Risk
Reduction for Resilience in 2016.11 This common approach to disaster risk reduction provides
an opportunity for the United Nations to actively work as one towards meeting the 2030
Agenda. The new results-based analytical framework, developed through the United Nations
Disaster Risk Reduction Focal Points Group, led by UNISDR, has strengthened accountability
across the United Nations system through measurable progress monitoring. UNISDR also
collaborated with the United Nations Development Group to guide the United Nations Country
Teams in integrating disaster risk reduction in country programming, including the revision
of guidelines for United Nations country teams to prepare United Nations Development
Assistance Frameworkss and co-led the preparation of several supplementary guides to
ensure that risk and resilience were retained as critical pillars in the implementation of the
2030 Agenda.
In 2016, UNISDR strengthened its partnership with the private sector, the Private Sector
Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE), to build understanding of the hidden
disaster risk-related liabilities for businesses, in order to increase risk-sensitive business
investments and foster risk-sensitive business practices. UNISDR supported the ARISE private
sector members to draft and launch a strategy for Sendai Framework implementation, working
within its focus areas of business disaster risk management strategies, investment metrics,
resilience benchmarking analytics and standards, education and training, legal and regulatory

Page // 13

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 14

issues, urban risk reduction and resilience, and risk transfer. UNISDR collaborated with ARISE
members to design and implement a range of projects and initiatives that allowed ARISE
members to meet voluntary commitments made at the Third United Nations World Conference
on Disaster Risk Reduction in Sendai in 2015. In 2016, ARISE member projects engaged over
500 businesses, 15 universities, 1,500 students, and a host of local administrators.12
To encourage disaster risk financing and tracking, UNISDR provided extensive input and
secretariat support throughout 2016, including technical papers and non-papers, to the formal
and informal deliberations of the Open-ended Intergovernmental Expert Working Group on
Indicators and Terminology Relating to Disaster Risk Reduction (OIEWG) regarding indicators
for measuring progress in achieving Target F of the Sendai Framework, on international
cooperation to developing countries. The recommended indicators for the measurement of
Target F encompass three categories – financial resources, technology transfer and capacity
building – thereby observing the same organising principles employed for measuring the
means of implementation of the SDGs.
Recognising UNISDR’s work developing a disaster risk management (DRM) policy marker
within the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) Creditor Reporting System (CRS),
as well as its pilot application at national level in the risk-sensitive budget review of Indian
Ocean Consortium countries, Member States suggested the use of a DRM policy marker to
assist measurement of the target. In parallel to the programme of work of the OIEWG, UNISDR
worked closely with the OECD DAC on the proposal for the inclusion of a DRM policy marker
within the CRS. This proposal, which was first developed by UNISDR and the World Bank
together with Member States, passed the first instance of scrutiny by the OECD DAC Working
Party on Statistics in 2016 and will be submitted for final approval in 2017. UNISDR also
continued its outreach and engagement with the international financial industry, to identify
explicit responsibilities in the Sendai Framework for financial regulators and accounting bodies
in managing disaster risk.
UNISDR’s January 2016 Science and Technology Conference on the Implementation
of the Sendai Framework was attended by more than 700 experts representing numerous
scientific institutions and societies. It resulted in a 15-year road map to define the expected
outcomes of science and technology work under the four Sendai Framework priorities
for action, ways to monitor progress and needs, the launch of a Science and Technology
Partnership, and various regional initiatives.
As a result of extensive consultations with civil society organisations in the preparations
for the 2017 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction, many session organising teams, cochairs, speakers, and concept notes reflect a variety of stakeholders and many are led by civil
society members.
UNISDR provided guidance to parliamentarians in their efforts to include disaster risk
reduction in national legislation and budgets, including through technical support to the InterParliamentary Union’s 2016 Regional Seminar on the Sustainable Development Goals for the
Parliaments of Central and Eastern Europe. Results of UNISDR support to parliamentarians
include the establishment of the East African Disaster Risk Reduction Parliamentarian Platform,
as well as the creation of the Parliamentarians Network for Resilience to Disasters in Central
Africa (REPARC), and active advocacy by Women in Parliaments.
UNISDR’s Japan Liaison Office, collaborated with partners for 29 events in 2016, and in
partnership with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the United Nations

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 15

Training and Research Institute (UNITAR), contributed to five disaster risk reduction training
programmes in 2016, including three gender focused trainings. Through these five programme,
113 participants from 46 countries were trained. In addition, through the coordination of
the International Recovery Platform, five capacity-building workshops were delivered to
promote the Build Back Better approach to recovery.

1 ENABLER

EFFECTIVE KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT, COMMUNICATION
AND GLOBAL ADVOCACY

The Sendai Seven Campaign: Seven Targets, Seven Years was launched by the United Nations
Secretary-General and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk
Reduction (SRSG) on International Day for Disaster Reduction, 13 October, along with a
special report Poverty & Death that helped focus International Day activities on Target A of the
Sendai Framework, to substantially reduce global disaster mortality by 2030. The SRSG briefed
the media several times during the year and published 14 opinion pieces through Thomson
Reuters, Japan Times, the Bangkok Post, the Guardian, Huffington Post, and other high-profile
international outlets. The Sendai Seven strategy seeks to recognise best practice in achieving
the targets of the Sendai Framework, and five examples from Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe
and the Pacific were honoured on International Day for Disaster Reduction through regional and
national media outreach. The campaign will continue for the next six years, with each focusing on
a different target as well as making links to World Tsunami Awareness Day on 5 November.
Social media are an important part of the strategy, and three Thunderclap online campaigns
launched during the year reached over 60 million people. The strategy also involved reaching out
to other United Nations agency heads, and joint op-eds were published with the executive heads
of UNDP, OCHA, UNEP and IOM.
In 2016, UNISDR continued its global advocacy efforts through a relaunch of the Making
Cities Resilient Campaign, now consisting of a network of 3,457 cities. This phase began with
alignment of all tools and guidance for local resilience-building with the Sendai Framework and
began development of new local-urban indicators coherent with the Sendai Framework, SDG 11,
and the New Urban Agenda. UNISDR supported the Worldwide Initiative for Safe Schools’
advocacy and monitoring efforts13, as part of 2016 Regional Platforms in Asia and the Pacific,
in close collaboration with the Global Alliance for Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience in the
Education Sector. This triggered new membership from three Pacific countries14 and an ongoing
policy mapping of integration of school safety in national disaster risk reduction strategies.
UNISDR provided leadership in the conceptualisation of the Climate Risk and Early Warning
Systems (CREWS) initiative and worked partners, The World Meteorological Organization and
The World Bank, on project development.15
UNISDR initiated the development of a Global Roster of Women Leaders and Gender
Experts in Disaster Risk Reduction to further enhance UNISDR’s efforts globally, the SRSG’s
commitment as an International Gender Champion to achieve gender parity on all development
discussion panels by 2030, and to promote women’s leadership in disaster risk reduction in
future Regional and Global Platforms.

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 16

UNISDR continued to coordinate the International Recovery Platform (IRP) as a mechanism
for knowledge sharing to promote the Build Back Better approach to recovery, in line with Priority
4 of the Sendai Framework. The work included developing the Recovery Guidance Note focusing
on the private sector, which was published in November, and operating IRP Web as a knowledge
management tool for recovery.
PreventionWeb, the disaster risk reduction community knowledge platform, overhauled its
search technology, providing a much more intuitive user experience. A plan was developed
to provide a practical framework to ensure that services are strongly embedded in a modern
knowledge management strategy. A modern service of online work spaces was launched and is
used by 200 disaster risk reduction networks/communities serving over 105,000 people. As part
of its knowledge brokering effort, PreventionWeb piloted new editorial packages, and continued
interactive Ask-the-Expert and Guest Editorial slots.
The process to develop a set of Words into Action (WiA) guidelines, as practical how-to
guides targeted to a specific set of users, began in 2016. The WiA guidelines will be validated
and kept up to date online through co-curation by communities on PreventionWeb. In 2016, a
general strategy for quality control and working towards guidlines that reflect real-world needs
was developed on the basis of the lessons learnt while developing the first guide of the WiA
guidelines, on National and Local Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction. Currently, six WiA work
groups are in an intermediate or advanced phase of drafting and another eight are in an initial
stage of drafting. The total number of experts participating in all work groups exceeds 500.16
In 2016, UNISDR continued efforts to raise appropriate, sustainable and predictable financial
resources to support the work of UNISDR embodied in the UNISDR Work Programme 2016-2019.
UNISDR donors responded positively to UNISDR’s change management process by increasing
un-earmarked funding. UNISDR donors also strengthened the predictability of their support in
2016 by signing 15 multi-year agreements. UNISDR met its 2016 financial target of US$30
million and diversified its support base, with India becoming a new donor.

2 ENABLER

STRENGTHENED ORGANIZATIONAL PERFORMANCE

The UNISDR Strategic Framework 2016-2021, finalised over the course of 2016, defines
UNISDR’s vision and role in the implementation of the Sendai Framework. The Strategic
Framework’s fifteen results contribute to the achievement of three Strategic Objectives,
leading to the overarching objective: the prevention of new and reduction of existing disaster
risk and strengthening resilience through successful multi-hazard disaster risk management. A
quadrennial Work Programme for 2016-2019 was finalised in alignment with Sub-Programme
3- Natural Disasters, Under Programme- 23 Humanitarian Assistance, of the United
Nations Framework 2018-2019. The UNISDR Work Programme details fifteen results and
describes the thirty deliverables required to achieve the Strategic Framework’s objectives. The
Work Programme includes a Results Framework that defines indicators, baselines and targets to
monitor progress towards implementation of the Work Programme.

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 17

In July 2016, UNISDR initiated an Organisational Review and Change Management
Process, to make itself more fit for purpose to deliver its mandate. The process is underpinned
by commitments to strengthen organisational performance, enhance effectiveness, efficiency
and quality of operational performance, including through gender-sensitive internal policies
and approaches. It is guided by eight change priorities: organisational set-up; resourcing
(resource mobilisation and cost savings); internal communication; external communication;
people management; staff capacity development; business processes and policies; and a
partnership engagement strategy. The eight change priorities were initiated in a phased manner,
with a new organisational structure being a central piece of the work in 2016. In late 2016,
the new organisational structure was designed to better align the functions, levels, skills and
geographic locations of staff required to achieve the objectives of the Strategic Framework. The
process of implementing the new organigram began in 2016 and will be completed in 2017.
In 2016, the UNISDR Programme and Finance Committee, the mechanism for screening
new projects prior to donor submission, was reviewed and adjusted to broaden its scope to
include oversight of new and ongoing projects. As a result, the committee was converted into a
Programme Management Oversight Committee. This committee began work in September
and focuses on enhanced oversight of ongoing projects and better alignment between proposed
project results and the UNISDR Work Programme.
UNISDR mainstreamed gender equality and women’s empowerment throughout its Strategic
Framework and Work Programme, underscoring the need to mainstream gender aspects in
all planning and implementation of disaster risk reduction policies, advocacy campaigns and
awareness-raising products. Internally, UNISDR is committed to gender balance in its work force.
UNISDR achieved its Geneva Gender Champions Initiative commitments, and all staff passed
a UN-Women gender training. A standing item at all UNISDR staff meetings is the identification
of gender-related issues in the workplace and a broader discussions on gender mainstreaming in
disaster risk reduction in the work of the organisation.

2016 DONORS TO UNISDR IN MILLIONS USD
(RECEIVED AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016)

Sweden
European Commission
Republic of Korea
Japan
Germany
Australia
Switzerland
USA
Finland
India
Ireland
USA/WHO*
Norway
Austria
China
Luxembourg
Others

8.4M
7.1M
2.1M
1.9M
1.5M
1.4M
1.4M
1.3M
1.1M

Earmarked

1.0M
0.5M

Unearmarked

0.5M
0.5M
0.4M
0.3M
0.3M
0.6M

0

2M

4M

6M

8M

1OM

Note: In 2016, significant in-kind contributions were provided by the host countries of Regional and Sub-Regional Platforms, Global Platform
2017 and other meetings.
*USAID Bureau for Global Health, Emerging Threats Program through WHO

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 18

2016 DONORS TO UNISDR IN USD
(RECEIVED AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016)

GOVERNMENTS
AUSTRALIA

USD
1,442,125

1

AUSTRIA1

396,825

CANADA1

4,753

CHINA

300,000

FINLAND

1 133,787

FRANCE

10,966
1,511,254

GERMANY1

1,000,000

INDIA1

543,478

IRELAND1

1,933,333

JAPAN1
1

100,000

LUXEMBOURG

281,849

NORWAY

464,183

KAZAKHSTAN

REPUBLIC OF KOREA1

2,107,836

SWEDEN

8,364,725

SWITZERLAND3

1,374,612

USA

1,293,183

1

USA/WHO4

495,050

SUBTOTAL

22,757,959

OTHER INSTITUTIONS

USD

EUROPEAN COMMISSION2

7,055,465

FAO1

125,820

HUMAN SECURITY TRUST FUND1

191,665

SUBTOTAL

7,372,949

PRIVATE SECTOR AND FOUNDATIONS

USD

AXA1

10,000

IBM

7,000

1

10,000

KOKUSAI KOGYO CO. LTD1

5,000

SM PRIME1
UPS FOUNDATION1

110,000

SUBTOTAL

142,000

GRAND TOTAL
Earmarked contributions
Earmarked contributions from two Directorate Generals (DEVCO
and ECHO)
3
Combination of earmarked and unearmarked contributions
1
2

30,272,908
Earmarked contribution from USAID Bureau for Global 	
Health, Emerging Threats Program through WHO.

4

Note: 2016 certified financial statement will be posted at:
www.unisdr.org/who-we-are/donors

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

UNISDR
Regional Offices

In support of the Sendai Framework
for Disaster Risk Reduction

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 20

AFRICA
The year 2016 was marked by heightened advocacy and urgency to implement the Sendai
Framework in Africa. A key achievement was the adoption of the Programme of Action for
the Implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030
in Africa. The Programme of Action will serve as the instrument to facilitate the achievement
of the Sendai Framework’s goals in the region. Political commitment for the implementation of
the Programme of action was generated through the Mauritius Declaration, adopted at the
5th High-Level Meeting of African Ministers responsible for disaster risk reduction.
UNISDR published the 2015 Africa Status Report analysing current trends in Africa, key
risk drivers, and the state of disaster risk reduction implementation. The report also outlined
a roadmap to enable African countries to transition from implementation of the Hyogo
Framework for Action to the Sendai Framework.
Over 400 government staff from ten countries were trained on disaster loss accounting
and risk knowledge. The training is the first step to build a risk knowledge architecture at
the national level to inform investment decisions for disaster risk reduction. Ten sub-Saharan
countries are in the process of data collection, systematisation and entry, disaggregating
data by gender, age, and hazard type, including natural and human-induced hazards. The
data collection is compliant with the Sendai Framework loss and damage indicators set by
the Open-Ended Intergovernmental Expert Working Group on Indicators and Terminology for
Disaster Risk Reduction.18
Regional coordination on disaster risk reduction was strengthened during the reporting period
through two sessions of the Africa Working Group on Disaster Risk Reduction, one
Africa Regional Platform, one High-Level Meeting, and one sub-regional platform. These
forums provided opportunities for African Member States, Intergovernmental Organisations,
the United Nations, and multiple stakeholder groups and development partners to discuss
tools, mechanisms and ways to boost and coordinate disaster risk reduction in Africa, as
well as to address key risk drivers on the continent: poverty, public health, climate change
and variability, poorly-managed urbanisation, conflict and migration, and environmental
degradation.18
UNISDR’s Regional Office for Africa (ROA) provided regular technical and financial support to
the Intergovernmental Organisations in Africa, particularly the African Union Commission
and the Regional Economic Communities. The support resulted in the first-ever regional
disaster risk reduction and Management Act in Africa, passed by the East African Community,
as well as a disaster risk reduction policy in West Africa, the Disaster Preparedness and
Response Strategy in Southern Africa, capacity building of parliamentarians in Central Africa,
and enhanced early warning capacity through Climate Outlook Forums in the Greater Horn of
Africa.
ROA also strengthened United Nations coordination in Africa, setting the ground for the
implementation of the revised United Nations Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction
for Resilience, including through inter-agency mechanisms. UNISDR continued to influence
United Nations Common Country Programming at the national level by reviewing United

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 21

Nations Development Assistance Frameworks as a member of the United Nations Development
Group. At the regional level, UNISDR ensured integration of disaster risk reduction into the
Regional Coordination Mechanism, resulting in the formation of a cluster on Humanitarian
matters and disaster risk management.
Integration of disaster risk reduction was also promoted at the political level, including at
the United Nations Environmental Assembly and regional climate outlook forums. The African
Union Agenda 2063 recognises the importance of disaster risk reduction in pursuit of its Goal
7, Environmentally sustainable climate resilient economies and communities. Education and
health continued to be key sectors prioritised by ROA, including through a targeted approach
to develop and strengthen risk-informed health systems in the Ebola-affected countries and
supporting the implementation of the Worldwide Initiative for Safe Schools in Africa.
UNISDR focused on parliamentarians and media for capacity-building initiatives. A training
workshop of the Parliamentarians Network for Resilience to Disasters in Central Africa
(REPARC) and a training session for media personnel on effective disaster risk reduction
reporting were organised. Momentum on advocacy and awareness of disaster risk reduction
was catalysed during International Day for Disaster Reduction, World Tsunami Awareness Day,
and World Radio Day.

ARAB STATES
Despite mounting political and security challenges, with increasing demands for humanitarian
aid relative to developmental assistance, several Arab States scaled up actions on policy
guidance and advocacy to ensure that regional policies and commitments are aligned with
the Sendai Framework. In 2016, Arab countries increased their disaster risk reduction
actions and took steps to enhance their capacities at national and local levels as well as
strengthening regional cooperation and coordination mechanisms. The Arab region continues
to make progress thanks to active engagement by the League of Arab States, national and
local governments, civil society, academic and scientific institutes, as well as youth groups,
who are actively playing a role in disaster risk reduction and more generally in implementing
the 2030 Agenda.
In accordance with the decision of the Council of Arab Ministers Responsible for the Environment
in their 27th meeting, UNISDR’s Regional Office for the Arab States (ROAS) revised the Arab
Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction to align it with the Sendai Framework and link it
to the sustainable development efforts of Arab countries and the Arab Plan of Action on
Climate Change. The strategy was submitted to the Council of Arab Ministers responsible for
the Environment in their 28th meeting. ROAS provided technical inputs to the Arab Forum
for Sustainable Development, which acknowledged the importance of disaster risk reduction

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 22

noting that “Disaster risk reduction and sustainable development are closely related. The Arab
road map for implementing the Sendai Framework for disaster risk reduction should be put into
effect through national strategies and frameworks for managing risk and building resilience
with a view to reducing existing risks, averting new risks and ensuring sustainability. Doing so
will require the creation of appropriate coordination and financing mechanisms.” Additionally,
the Arab Report on Sustainable Development, published in 2016, reflects disaster risk
reduction as a major cross-cutting issue for sustainable development and as a critical factor in
the resilience of cities.
ROAS further supported national and local governments in disaster risk reduction. UNISDR
helped to pilot the Sendai Framework indicators at the national level in Tunisia. In Mauritania,
UNISDR supported the development of a national disaster risk reduction strategy and action
plan, and assisted four local governments (Aqaba, Jarash, Zarqa and Saida) in developing
their disaster risk reduction and resilience action plans. In Jordan, ROAS support contributed
to the establishment of the country’s national platform for disaster risk reduction.
ROAS also focussed on mainstreaming disaster risk reduction in development programmes
across the UN System. Using the Common Country Assessment/ United Nations Development
Action Framework (CCA/UNDAF) tool, ROAS supported United Nations Country Teams
to integrate disaster risk reduction in their planning documents. As a result, disaster risk
reduction concerns are now part of the planning documents of Lebanon, Morocco, Saudi
Arabia, Sudan, United Arab Emirates and Yemen. ROAS contributes a risk-sensitive approach
to all meetings of the Inter-Agency Coordination Network on Emergency Preparedness and
Response in the Middle East and North Africa region.
At the local level, the Arab region witnessed an increase in the number of local governments
joining the UNISDR Making Cities Resilient Campaign, bringing the regional total to over
310. ROAS continued to support and build the capacities of the advocates and champions
for the campaign in countries including Jordan, Lebanon, Mauritania, Sudan, and Tunisia.
Through the campaign, ROAS strengthened partnerships with Palestine’s An-Najah University
by contributing knowledge products and advocacy tools to its weekly radio station, as well as
with the Arab Towns Organization, the Arab Urban Development Institute and others.
ROAS also helped to establish the first Arab Youth Forum for Disaster Risk Reduction
and facilitated a dialogue between local government and private sector representatives, which
culminated in an agreement and a coordination mechanism to provide technical and financial
support to the implementation of disaster risk reduction and resilience action plans.

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 23

EUROPE
In 2016, UNISDR’s Regional Office for Europe (ROE) focused on the continued active European
contribution to Sendai Framework implementation in coherence with the 2030 Agenda and the
Paris Agreement on climate change. Regional and national partners focused on gaining highlevel political buy-in. Notably, the European Forum for Disaster Risk Reduction (EFDRR),
serviced and facilitated by UNISDR, adopted the EFDRR Road Map 2016-2020 actions in
support of the implementation of the Sendai Framework at its 7th Annual Meeting in Helsinki,
Finland. The EFDRR Road Map was endorsed by the European ministers at the Council of
Europe (EUR-OPA) ministerial session that further adopted a four-year work plan as effective
tools to implement Sendai Framework priorities in the region. The European Commission
shaped up priorities and launched programmatic implementation of the Sendai Framework
through the adopted European Commission Action Plan, A disaster risk-informed approach
to all EU policies, and the European Committee of the Regions’ joint action plan with UNISDR
on implementation of the Sendai Framework at local and regional levels in 2016-2020. ROE
also collaborated closely with the Netherlands and Slovakia who held European Union (EU)
presidencies in 2016.
UNISDR efforts in policy continued through collaboration with the European Parliament,
Commission and Council, with disaster risk reduction considerations included in several policy
documents and discussions on the World Humanitarian Summit, sustainable development,
cultural heritage, the European Consensus on Development, European Disability Strategy and
consultations on the European Commission’s policy priority areas.
ROE continued to support the 27 national platforms for disaster risk reduction in Europe
including by support to align them with the Sendai Framework. ROE also prepared an
extensive survey of European countries’ progress in implementing the Sendai Framework.
The survey results will be presented at the European Open Forum on in March 2017 and will
be used to support policy-making and strategic implementation plans in European Union and
non-European Union countries.
Twenty-eight national disaster risk reduction focal points were identified in the region. Portugal
and Sweden developed national strategies for disaster risk reduction in line with the Sendai
Framework. ROE further supported Bulgaria, Estonia, Georgia, Italy, Slovenia and Turkey in
the development of national strategies. Three peer reviews on disaster risk reduction were
conducted in Estonia (risk management capabilities), Malta and Poland (both on risk assessment)
under the European Commission programme for peer reviews in the framework of EU cooperation
on civil protection and disaster risk management. Twenty-eight European Union member states,
three states participating in the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism, and six countries
performed national risk assessments according to European Union guidelines.18
In 2016, ROE contributed to the development of four United Nations Development Action
Frameworks within the Europe region.19 In addition, ROE continued to mainstream disaster
risk reduction within diverse United Nations processes, including through the integration
of substantive inputs to the Prague Declaration, which formed the European contribution to
the New Urban Agenda. ROE also collaborated with the UN Economic Commission for Europe
(UNECE) in developing methodologies for country profiles on Housing and Land Use Planning

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 24

and in identifying a way forward for options for UNECE and the OECD to support prevention,
preparedness and response relating to industrial and chemical accidents.
ROE ensured that civil society representatives participated in the preparatory consultations
for the 2017 Global Platform on Disaster Risk Reduction and supported European Disaster
Risk Reduction Champions, including former President of Finland Tarja Halonen, and European
Commission Vice President Kristalina Georgieva.20 ROE and the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction contributed to the Rome Investment Forum, an
international private sector event featuring European ministers of finance and the European
Commission Vice-President, which focused on the importance of business resilience for
sustainable development.
The Making Cities Resilient Campaign continued to grow in Europe in 2016. Europe
hosted in Florence the first high-level international event on local level Sendai Framework.
21
The outcome document, the Florence Way Forward, highlighted local level priorities in
implementing the Sendai Framework. The event also relaunched the UNISDR Making Cities
Resilient Campaign and the Florence Declaration. On International Day for Disaster Reduction,
the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction signed a joint
agreement with the European Committee of the Regions to support European Union cities and
regions in taking more concerted action to reduce the impact of natural hazards.

AMERICAS
In 2016, the First Ministerial and High-level Authorities Meeting on the Implementation
of the Sendai Framework in the Americas was held in Asunción, Paraguay. The 35
participating countries adopted the Asunción Declaration and the guidelines for the
formulation of an action plan on the implementation of the Sendai Framework in the Americas.
Building on the political backing achieved in Asunción, UNISDR’s Regional Office for the
Americas (ROAM) supported the alignment of the main three sub-regional disaster risk
reduction strategies (the Caribbean Comprehensive Disaster Management Strategy, the
Central American Policy on Comprehensive Disaster Risk Management, and the Union of South
American Nations Strategy) with the Sendai Framework. Particularly in the Caribbean, the
alignment involved the harmonisation of the monitoring framework of the regional strategy with
the Sendai Framework’s targets and the Sustainable Development Goals.
At the national level, ROAM began providing technical support to seven countries for the revision
of their national plans and strategies for disaster risk reduction.22 Four of the countries
agreed to prepare roadmaps or to initiate the process as per the Sendai Framework’s standards.
In 2016, UNISDR supported Argentina in the revision of its national framework of civil protection
to include a more comprehensive approach to disaster risk reduction. And also supported Costa
Rica to finalise the preparation of its national plan and policy and monitoring framework. This
will serve as a best practice of the integration of cross-sector disaster risk reduction priorities
within a comprehensive national level monitoring system. In the Caribbean, ROAM support

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 25

lead to the Caribbean Road Map on Seismic Risk Management, the identification of Caribbean
disaster risk reduction priorities that will guide national plans, and agreed recommendations to
enhance early warning systems in Caribbean.
ROAM supported countries to update their loss and damage databases. As of 2016, 19
countries (55%) of the region, had updated loss and damages databases. The updated databases
served to prepare a statistical report on disaster risk trends for the 19 countries, with the aim
of contributing directly to strategic policy guidance as well as advocacy in support of regional
and country implementation of national and local disaster risk plans. This report included six
Caribbean countries that, for the first time, updated their loss and damage databases.
In 2016, ROAM assisted four municipalities in finalising local disaster risk reduction action
plans.23 The national and local action plans received inputs from updated loss and damage
databases, risk profiles and local indicators, including a second report on disaster trends and
statistics for Latin America and the Caribbean. The regional, national and local achievements
built on an active engagement of key partners, including the private sector, advocates and
champions, the United Nations System and the media. In 2016, ROAM established four new
national chapters of the Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE) in
Colombia, Chile, Peru and El Salvador. In addition, 321 new cities, 11 new advocates and one
new champion joined the Making Cities Resilient Campaign.
Partnerships also involved important work to further the cross-sectoral nature of disaster risk
reduction with United Nations partners. One highlight of 2016 was the preparation, with FAO,
of the Guidelines and Recommendations for the implementation of the Sendai Framework for
Disaster Risk Reduction in the Agriculture and Food Security and Nutrition Sector in Latin America
and the Caribbean to be adopted by Ministries of Agriculture at the 2017 Regional Platform for
Disaster Risk Reduction in the Americas. Another key achievement was the implementation of
the revised United Nations Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience,
working with the Inter-Agency Working Group of the United Nations for the Plan of Action on
Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience chaired by UNISDR and UNDP (IAWG) and formed by 16
United Nations Regional Offices in the Americas. The group developed disaster risk reduction
assessments, update loss and damage databases and supported the integration of resilience
considerations in the UN Development Assistance Frameworks of three countries.
In 2016, ROAM shared 2,002 communication items through the regional Communications
Platform, including press releases and special messages, web stories on the regional
website and PreventionWeb, and posts on social media in the Americas. The quality, language
accessibility and the knowledge content of the information provided by ROAM website had
an impact on numbers, with an average of nearly 700,000 monthly visits. ROAM reinforced
its social media presence through successful partnerships with regional television outlets for
dissemination of good practices and to further extend the reach of global initiatives supported
by UNISDR.24

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 26

A S I A - PA C I F I C
A highlight of 2016 for UNISDR’s Regional Office for Asia-Pacific (ROAP) was the successful
outcome of the 2016 Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction
(AMCDRR), which UNISDR co-organised with the Government of India, in New Delhi
in November. It was a major achievement: a heavyweight political presence and wide
partner support reiterated the commitment by governments and partners to accelerate
implementation of the Sendai Framework in Asia. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi
opened the AMCDRR before 30 Ministers and 4,400 representatives from 51 countries.
He issued a 10-point plan to strengthen resilience in the region and set the stage for a
conference that adopted three major outcomes: the New Delhi Declaration; the Asia
Regional Plan for the Implementation of the Sendai Framework, which includes
policy guidance, milestones and a two-year action plan to achieve the Sendai Framework’s
seven targets; and ten Voluntary Stakeholder Action Statements. As the region looks
ahead to the AMCDRR 2018, in Mongolia, it is well positioned to introduce the Sendai
Monitor which will further boost efforts to prevent and reduce disaster risk.
ROAP also facilitated the Central Asia and South Caucasus Regional Platform, hosted by
the Government of Tajikistan in Dushanbe, which was the first such platform in that region.
The Dushanbe Declaration is a landmark collective political commitment – supported
by a Regional Plan of Action with milestones to achieve the 2020 target of the Sendai
Framework – to advance disaster risk reduction efforts in this hazard-prone region of eight
countries with a population of 75 million people.
In the Pacific, The Framework for Resilient Development in the Pacific: An
Integrated Approach to Address Climate Change and Disaster Risk Management,
was adopted with strong substantive support from the Pacific Office. This framework,
the first of its kind, aims to strengthen the resilience of Pacific Island communities to
the impacts of slow and sudden-onset natural hazards by integrating climate change
mitigation and adaptation efforts with disaster risk reduction approaches and activities
towards sustainable development. UNISDR played a key role in the Technical Working
Group that developed this document by providing technical disaster risk reduction support
and ensuring its coherence with the Sendai Framework.
ROAP co-organised the International Conference on Health Aspects of the Sendai
Framework with the World Health Organization and the Government of Thailand, in
Bangkok. The conference called on all countries to put health resilience at the heart of
disaster risk management in the face of crises such as the Zika virus outbreak. The agreed
Bangkok Principles form an important contribution to international policy guidance and
help to put health at the heart of disaster risk management.
ROAP supported the development of disaster risk management status reports in
Indonesia, Bangladesh, the Philippines, India, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Nepal, Pakistan, and Mongolia. These reports are important baseline documents for the
appropriate review and update of national disaster risk reduction strategies and plans,
and of course, for the implementation and monitoring of the Sendai Framework.25 Through
the process, the countries gained a clearer understanding of their disaster risk context,

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 27

capacity and vulnerability. This knowledge equips decision makers – in government and
with other stakeholders, at national and local level – to make better choices on the
allocation of resources and priorities to strengthen disaster resilience.
India developed the country’s first ever National Disaster Management Plan aligned
with the Sendai Framework, while Mongolia utilised the Sendai Framework to guide its
national strategy for disaster risk reduction. UNISDR advocacy and facilitation supported
the Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Nepal, Palau, Pakistan and Sri Lanka to
strengthen their national plans in line with the Sendai Framework.26
In 2016, national disaster loss databases for Bhutan and Myanmar were established
with UNISDR’s support in collaboration with UNDP. The existing databases in Cambodia,
Mongolia, Timor-Leste, and the database in the Indian state of Uttarakhand were updated.
Countries such as Cambodia, Laos, Mongolia, Myanmar, and Sri Lanka, used their disaster
loss data to carry out probabilistic risk assessments. Based on data from disaster loss
databases, and on exposure and proxies for vulnerabilities, probabilistic risk modelling
was carried out in the above five countries with UNISDR technical assistance.
ROAP, via the United Nations Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience,
worked to strengthen the broad commitment to incorporate disaster risk reduction
parameters in all United Nations Development Assistance Frameworks (UNDAFs). In 2016,
UNISDR provided technical assistance to four UNDAFs (Bangladesh, Iran, Kazakhstan and
Mongolia) and all 14 UNDAFs in the Pacific region included disaster risk reduction. The Plan
of Action was consistently and formally introduced to United Nations Country Teams and
regional organisations (e.g. ASEAN and SAARC).
ROAP co-organised the First Asian Science and Technology Conference on Disaster
Risk Reduction with the Government of Thailand, in Bangkok. The Conference’s
outcome document translated the global Science and Technology Roadmap to Support
the Implementation of the Sendai Framework into concrete actions for Asia, the world’s
most hazard-exposed and disaster-prone region. The outcome, outlining eight priorities
to harness research and technology to boost Sendai Framework implementation, was
integrated into AMCDRR outcomes.27
In the Pacific, UNISDR worked to improve private sector risk management through 35
workshops with small and medium sized businesses in Samoa and the Solomon Islands,
work on a global guidance note for the Sendai implementation in the tourism sector, and
the launch of the Connecting Business Initiative in Fiji. A Pacific Science and Technology
Advisory Group was also developed to advance disaster risk reduction in the region, as an
outcome of the Pacific Sub-Regional Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction.28

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 28

ENDNOTES

1.	

The UNISDR certified financial statement will be available by July 2017 and the results framework
will be available in March 2017.

2	

This included two formal and two informal sessions of the Working Group as well as 4 informal
consultations of the Chair with Experts and Delegates, six meetings of the 10+10 Group,
numerous preparatory briefings with the Chair, the preparation of session documents including
agendas, substantive notes, presentations, programs and calendars of work, scripts for the Chair
and the SRSG, informal reports of meetings and the formal outcome document of the Working
Group, Working Group website page updating, continuous communications with delegates and
experts, and provided travel support to Experts from developing countries.

3	

Link to technical papers and non-papers: www.preventionweb.net/drr-framework/open-endedworking-group

4	

The report of the IAEG-SDGs (E/CN.3/2017/2) proposing a global indicator framework for the
SDGs will be presented for consideration and approval by the UN Statistical Commission (UNSC)
at the 48th Session of the Statistical Commission in March 2017.

5	

Further testing will continue in 2017, with the ultimate launch in January 2018.

6	

UNISDR serves as the Secretariat for the Support Group and the dedicated Task Force for the
organisation of and follow-up to the Global Platform.

7	

Through understanding historical trends, patterns, impacts and losses, countries can derive a
great deal of understanding of current hazards and exposure (people and economic assets).

8	

DesInventar is a low cost, low complexity database that countries can use to record and analyse
disaster loss and damage information that has been embraced by more than 92 countries.

9	

Lisbon and Amadora (Portugal), Greater Manchester and Stroke on Trent (United Kingdom),
Jonkoping (Sweden), Aqaba (Jordan), Kisumu (Kenya), Bugaba (Panama), Yogyakarta
(Indonesia), Makati (Philippines) and Islamabad (Pakistan)

10 	 The secretariat of the Committee of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
integrated the Sendai Framework’s key tenants in the Guidelines to State Parties on periodic
reporting to the Committee concerning article 11 on situations of risk and humanitarian
emergencies, thus furthering the integration of disaster risk reduction in national regulatory
frameworks and the implementation of the Sendai Framework.
11 	 The revised UN Plan of Action added emphasis on country and local level engagement and
ensuring the UN system is responsive to the different country needs and contexts in regards to
disaster risk reduction.
12 	 UNISDR ARISE website: http://www.preventionweb.net/arise/
13	

The mapping is a global mapping of existing national policies that will integrate comprehensive
school safety aspects, to match support by technical partners to interested Governments to
integrate school safety fundamentals in their national disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020.

14 	 Fiji, Samoa and Vanuatu
15 	 In 2016, country projects were approved for Burkina Faso, Mali, Democratic Republic of the
Congo and the Pacific (regional project).
16 	 The following will be ready in 2017: Build back better in recovery, National and Local platforms,
Governance & Accountability, Ecosystems-based disaster risk reduction, Construction Policy and

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 29

Practice, Understanding disaster risk (National risk assessment). The eight groups in the initial
stages of drafting are: Civil society, volunteers, organised voluntary work & community-based
organisations, Tourism, Cultural heritage, Investing in disaster risk reduction for resilience, Land
use and urban planning, Local authorities, National and local strategies (for local government
leaders, mayors, city managers), and Preparedness for Response.
17 	 10 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa were provided with training for implementation of disaster
loss databases: Angola, Botswana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Liberia, Rwanda, Sierra
Leone, United Republic of Tanzania and Zambia.
18 	 Key risk drivers identified in the Programme of Action for the Implementation of the Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 in Africa (PoA). The PoA was one of the main
outcome documents of the 5th High-Level Meeting on Disaster Risk Reduction agreed through the
deliberations of the 6th Session of the Africa Regional Platform in November 2016 in Mauritius
and reviewed under the consultative processes of the 7th, 8th and 9th Sessions of the Africa
Working Group.
19 	 Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine
20 	 Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Serbia
21 	 The then European Commission Vice President, Kristalina Georgieva, played a vital role as cochair of the United Nations Secretary-General’s High-Level Panel on Humanitarian Financing in
advocating for funding for preparedness and risk reduction.
21 	 Jointly organised by the City of Florence, the Italian Civil Protection, UCLG, UN-Habitat and
UNISDR.
22 	 Argentina, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Honduras, Panama, Paraguay and Peru
23 	 Bugaba, Tecoluca, San Luis La Herradura, and Cuyutitlan
24 	 ROAM, in close collaboration with ECHO, continued fostering horizontal cooperation among
countries through a repository of good practices and tools for DRR as implemented in the
Caribbean, South America and Central America through an online platform (http://dipecholac.
net/).
25 	 The conference was an example of the Sendai Framework’s all of society approach in action
with government officials and representatives from inter-governmental organisations, health,
science, academia, media, business, and non-governmental organisations from 54 countries
present.
26 	 The following countries are expected to submit their report early 2017: Bhutan, Lao PDR and
Viet Nam are expected in 2017.
27 	 Indonesia, Cambodia, Thailand and Viet Nam are also in the process of finalising their revised
national DRM plans.
28 	 The outcome underscored three main areas of work: strengthen the connection between the
science community and policy makers; ensure advances in science and technology in disaster
risk reduction support local actions; and encourage a people-centred approach that taps into
traditional knowledge to complement innovation. The recommendations included the need: for
better national accounting of disaster loss and damage; for more engagement of the private
sector and academic networks; and to nurture a younger generation of researchers with
significantly more women.

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

UNISDR Annual Report 2016
Page // 32

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

