UNISDR
Annual Report
2017

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

© 2018 UNITED NATIONS
For additional information, please contact:
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR)
9-11 Rue de Varembé, 1202 Geneva, Switzerland, Tel: +41 22 917 89 08
Note: The designations employed and the presentation of maps in this report do not imply the expression of any opinion
whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city
or area or of its authorities or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
Cover: Residents begin cleaning up in Haiti after Hurricane Mathew. UN Photo/Logan Abass

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

UNISDR
Annual Report 2017
2016-17 Biennium Work Programme Final Report

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

FOREWORD

UN Secretary-General António Guterres and the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction Mami Mizutori

The year 2017 was full of reminders why the work of disaster risk reduction is so important. Climate
change continues to amplify the impact of extreme weather events especially for Small Island
Developing States. This was apparent in the Caribbean during a record-breaking Atlantic Hurricane
Season which will continue to impact on the region’s progress towards sustainable development for
decades to come.
Extreme weather took its toll in Africa too when hundreds died in an overnight landslide which
swept away housing in a poor neighborhood in the Sierra Leone capital, Freetown, and drought continues to take a high human toil in terms of hunger, poverty and sustainable development. Across
South Asia, the lives of millions were deeply affected by the floods which resulted in 1,200 deaths in
Bangladesh, India and Nepal.
While losses on this scale are very visible, the accumulation of impacts from recurring, small-scale
disaster events that do not grab the headlines can be equally corrosive of a community’s resilience
to disasters. That is one reason why the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction was pleased to see a
prototype of the Sendai Framework Monitor being piloted at the 2017 Global Platform for Disaster
Risk Reduction in Cancun, Mexico. Data gathered through this monitoring system will allow us

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

to understand disaster risk in all its dimensions, which is the first priority of action of the Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.
With the Sendai Monitor System formally launched on 1 March this year, throughout 2018 and 2019,
UN Member States will be able to use the mechanism to report on their progress in achieving the
seven targets of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. The Sendai Monitor allows also
for reporting against common indicators for key Sustainable Development Goals, notably on poverty eradication, resilient cities and climate action.
We continue to pursue our mandate of disaster risk reduction in coherence with the Sustainable
Development Goals and the Paris Agreement, and we are moving forward steadily towards 2030.
However, not all countries have the necessary capacity to fulfill their responsibilities under the
Sendai Framework in accessing, compiling and reporting back on the data necessary to measure
our achievement. The need to boost capacity development in many countries is crucial, and this will
remain an important focus of our activities.
All of this work is vital preparation for the Sendai Framework 2020 deadline for Target (e) which is to
substantially increase the number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020. These strategies will form the basis for further achievement of all other six targets of
the Sendai Framework. I look forward to participating in the Regional Platforms scheduled during
2018 and hearing about progress to date in this area.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend once more the gratitude of United Nations to Mexico
for generously hosting the first Global Platform outside of our host city of Geneva. It was a great
success thanks to the commitment and support of the Mexican government, notably through the
participation of President Enrique Peña Nieto and the National Civil Protection System.
I would also like to extend my sincere thanks to the outgoing Special Representative, Dr. Robert
Glasser, for his excellent stewardship of UNISDR during his term of office which included the 2017
Global Platform and the organisational review and change management process.
During my short time in office, I have found UNISDR to be a small and nimble organisation. I thank
the staff for their hard work and dedication to supporting the implementation, follow-up and review
of the Sendai Framework over this past year.
We are committed to working together with Member States, the UN family, regional organisations,
and all other partners and stakeholders, including the civil society, the academic, scientific and research entities, business, professional associates and private sector financial institutions, and the
media.

Mami Mizutori
United Nations Special Representative of the Secretary-General
for Disaster Risk Reduction

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Locals in Haiti work on a flood
project in Ti Riviere, Cap Haitien.
Photo Victoria Hazou
UN/MINUSTAH

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Table of Contents
8

Sendai Framework Chart

10

UNISDR Vision

11

UNISDR Work Programme Overview

12

Executive Summary

16

Strategic Objective 1

22

Strategic Objective 2

28

Strategic Objective 3

36

Enabler 1

39

Donor Overview

41

Enabler 2

45

Regional Offices

46

Africa

49

Arab States

52

Asia-Pacific

56

Americas

58

Europe

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk
Reduction 2015-2030
Scope and purpose
The present framework will apply to the risk of small-scale and large-scale, frequent and infrequent, sudden and slowonset disasters, caused by natural or man-made hazards as well as related environmental, technological and biological
hazards and risks. It aims to guide the multi-hazard management of disaster risk in development at all levels as well as
within and across all sectors

Expected outcome
The substantial reduction of disaster risk and losses in lives, livelihoods and health and in the economic, physical, social,
cultural and environmental assets of persons, businesses, communities and countries

Goal
Prevent new and reduce existing disaster risk through the implementation of integrated and inclusive economic, structural,
legal, social, health, cultural, educational, environmental, technological, political and institutional measures that prevent
and reduce hazard exposure and vulnerability to disaster, increase preparedness for response and recovery, and thus
strengthen resilience

Targets
A.

B.

C.

D.

Substantially reduce
global disaster mortality
by 2030, aiming to lower
the average per 100,000
global mortality between
2020-2030 compared to
2005-2015

Substantially reduce
the number of affected
people globally by 2030,
aiming to lower the
average global figure
per 100,000 between
2020-2030 compared to
2005-2015

Reduce direct disaster
economic loss in relation
to global
gross domestic product
(GDP) by 2030

Substantially reduce
disaster damage to
critical infrastructure
and disruption of basic
services, among them
health and educational
facilities, including
through developing their
resilience by 2030

E.

F.

G.

Substantially increase
the number of countries
with national and local
disaster risk reduction
strategies by 2020

Substantially enhance
international cooperation
to developing countries
through adequate and
sustainable support
to complement their
national actions for
implementation of this
framework by 2030

Substantially increase the
availability of and access
to multi-hazard early
warning systems and
disaster risk information
and assessments to
people by 2030

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Priorities for Action
There is a need for focused action within and across sectors by States at local, national, regional and global
levels in the following four priority areas.
Priority 1 / Understanding disaster risk
Disaster risk management needs to be based on an understanding of disaster risk in all its dimensions of vulnerability,
capacity, exposure of persons and assets, hazard characteristics and the environment
Priority 2 / Strengthening disaster risk governance to manage disaster risk
Disaster risk governance at the national, regional and global levels is vital to the management of disaster risk reduction
in all sectors and ensuring the coherence of national and local frameworks of laws, regulations and public policies that,
by defining roles and responsibilities, guide, encourage and incentivize the public and private sectors to take action and
address disaster risk
Priority 3 / Investing in disaster risk reduction for resilience
Public and private investment in disaster risk prevention and reduction through structural and non-structural measures
are essential to enhance the economic, social, health and cultural resilience of persons, communities, countries and
their assets, as well as the environment. These can be drivers of innovation, growth and job creation. Such measures are
cost-effective and instrumental to save lives, prevent and reduce losses and ensure effective recovery and rehabilitation
Priority 4 / Enhancing disaster preparedness for effective response, and to «Build Back Better» in recovery,
rehabilitation and reconstruction
Experience indicates that disaster preparedness needs to be strengthened for more effective response and ensure
capacities are in place for effective recovery. Disasters have also demonstrated that the recovery, rehabilitation and
reconstruction phase, which needs to be prepared ahead of the disaster, is an opportunity to «Build Back Better»
through integrating disaster risk reduction measures. Women and persons with disabilities should publicly lead and
promote gender-equitable and universally accessible approaches during the response and reconstruction phases

Guiding Principles
a.	 Primary responsibility of States to prevent and reduce disaster risk, including through cooperation
b.	 Shared responsibility between central Government and national authorities, sectors and stakeholders as
appropriate to national circumstances
c.	 Protection of persons and their assets while promoting and protecting all human rights including the right to
development
d.	 Engagement from all of society
e.	 Full engagement of all State institutions of an executive and legislative nature at national and local levels
f.	

Empowerment of local authorities and communities through resources, incentives and decision-making
responsibilities as appropriate

g.	 Decision-making to be inclusive and risk-informed while using a multi-hazard approach
h.	 Coherence of disaster risk reduction and sustainable development policies, plans, practices and mechanisms,
across different sectors
i.	

Accounting of local and specific characteristics of disaster risks when determining measures to reduce risk

j.	

Addressing underlying risk factors cost-effectively through investment versus relying primarly on post-disaster
response and recovery

k.	 «Build Back Better» for preventing the creation of, and reducing existing, disaster risk
l.	

The quality of global partnership and international cooperation to be effective, meaningful and strong

m.	 Support from developed countries and partners to developing countries to be tailored according to needs
and priorities as identified by them

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

UNISDR VISION
The Substantial Reduction of Disasters Risk and Losses
for a Sustainable Future
“The challenge is to move from managing
disasters themselves to managing disaster risk.
Poverty, rapid urbanization, weak governance,
the decline of ecosystems and climate change
are driving disaster risk around the world.”

Y

AN

IT

United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres speaking
on the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction

UM

SENDAI

RH
FO

DA
AG E N

G
NE
W

UR

BA
NA
GEN
DA

IS A

Monitoring and
reporting
SO2 SO3

GREEMENT

K

SD

s

PA
R

CREATING A VIRTUOUS CYCLE OF
KNOWLEDGE
AND ACTION ACROSS
UNISDR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES

RK

Risk data and information,
good practice, policy guidance,
tools and capacity building
SO2 SO3

10

evidence generation
and application
SO1 SO2 SO3
Enabler 1

Intergovernmental
processes,
partnerships
SO1 SO2 SO3

O OR
W
eW

FR
SENDAI F AME
RA
Knowledge and M

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

UNISDR WORK PROGRAMME
VISION The substantial reduction of disaster risk and losses for a sustainable future
MANDATE

Focal point of the United Nations system for disaster risk reduction and the custodian
of the Sendai Framework, supporting countries and societies in its implementation, monitoring and
review of progress

OVERARCHING OBJECTIVE The prevention of new and reduction of existing disaster

Strategic Objectives

risk and strengthening resilience through successful multi-hazard disaster risk management.

1

Strengthen global
monitoring, analysis
and coordination of
Sendai Framework
implementation

1.1

Global Progress of
the Sendai Framework
& related SDG targets
assessed

Results

1.2

Global risk data,
analysis and policy
advice generated

1.3

Global coordination
and accountability
mechanisms
convened

2

Support to regional
and national
Sendai Framework
implementation

2.1

Regional & national
coordination mechanisms leveraged to
monitor & accelerate
Sendai Framework
implementation

2.2

National disaster risk
reduction strategies
& plans developed
in line with Sendai
Framework prescribed
guidance

2.3

Build capacity of
counterparts, UNCTs
and partners for DRR
leadership

3

Catalyse action
through Member
States and Partners

3.1

Fostered policy
coherence by
engaging with Member
States & key partners
contributing to relevant intergovernmental processes

3.2

Coordination &
advice provided to
UN System partners at
global level towards
effective & efficient
Sendai Framework
implementation

3.3

All of society
engagement and
action promoted
through strengthening
partnerships with key
stakeholders

Enablers

3.4

Enabler 1:

Effective knowledge management, communication
and global advocacy

Enabler 2:

Partnerships leveraged for increased
financing for disaster
risk reduction and
risk-sensitive investment

Strengthened organizational performance

11

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

In this first biennium since the adoption of the Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 and of the
Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development, UNISDR led the global disaster risk reduction
community in transitioning from implementation of the
Hyogo Framework for Action to implementation of the
Sendai Framework in the context of the overall 2030
Development Agenda. Throughout the course of the
biennium, the global community increasingly underscored
the interconnected
nature
of
humanitarian,
development and climate action. As disaster risk
reduction falls squarely in this nexus, UNISDR championed
the need for all planning, policies and actions to be riskinformed. The hazard landscape continued to evolve over
the course of the biennium, 2017 was one of the costliest
years for disaster losses ever, heighted by due key risk
drivers of climate change, poorly planned urbanisation in
hazard-prone areas, environmental degradation and rising
inequality.

UNISDR BIENNIUM
EXPENDITURES
Enabler 2
6.2M

SO1
10M

Enabler 1
8.9M
SO3
6.4M

SO2
22.2M

In this context, UNISDR provided key actors and stakeholders at all levels and sectors with the tools,
information, platforms, technical expertise and incentives, to translate the Sendai Framework into concrete
actions and contribute to achieving: the substantial reduction of disaster risk and losses in lives, livelihoods
and health and in the economic, physical, social, cultural and environmental assets of persons, businesses,
communities and countries.
To effectively focus its action, UNISDR launched a Strategic Framework 2016-2021 and Work Programme
2016-2019 and underwent a multi-faceted change process to align its organisational structure to the
Strategic Objectives of its Framework for greater focus, resource efficiency and accountability.
This 2017 Annual Report includes an overview of the 2016-17 results achieved by UNISDR against its Work
Programme. Although all UNISDR Regional Offices contribute to the achievement of all of UNISDR’s Strategic
Objectives, this report also highlights specific achievements by the five UNISDR Regional Offices in Africa, the
Arab States, the Americas, Europe and Asia-Pacific. A results-based indicators report and the 2016 and 2017
UNISDR certified financial statements are available at: www.unisdr.org/whowe-are/donors.

UNISDR IN NUMBERS

100%
Gender Parity
at Senior Level

12

100
Number of
Staff in 2017

99.2%

$57.6M

$53.7M

Extra-Budgetary
Funding

Biennium
Income

Biennium
Expenditures

(1 post funded through
UN Regular Budget)

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

UNISDR OFFICES
UNISDR headquarters is in Geneva, Switzerland. Its regional offices are based in Brussels, Belgium, for
Europe; Panama City, Panama, for the Americas; Cairo, Egypt, for Arab States; Bangkok, Thailand, for
Asia and Pacific; Nairobi, Kenya, for Africa. UNISDR also maintains presences in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia;
Bonn, Germany; Incheon, Republic of Korea; Kobe, Japan; Suva, Fiji and New York, United States of
America.
HEADQUARTERS
GENEVA
REGIONAL OFFICE
BRUSSELS
BONN
NEW YORK

INCHEON

KOBE

REGIONAL OFFICE
CAIRO
REGIONAL OFFICE
PANAMA CITY

REGIONAL OFFICE
BANGKOK

ADDIS ABABA
REGIONAL OFFICE
NAIROBI

SUVA

Member States began reporting progress on implementation of the Sendai Framework in March 2018,
the data is transmitted to the High Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development and will be featured in
the corresponding sustainable development report in 2018. A significant component of UNISDR work in the
biennium under review contributed to achieving this important milestone.
It is the culmination of UNISDR’s technical, political, policy, legal, procedural and logistical support to the
Open-ended Intergovernmental Expert Working Group on Indicators and Terminology relating to Disaster
Risk Reduction (OIEWG) which agreed on 38 global indicators to measure Sendai Framework implementation
in 2016. It is also the fruit of UNISDR’s active engagement and coordination with the United Nations Statistical
Commission, which approved use of seven of the Sendai Framework indicators to measure Sustainable
Development Goals 1 (No Poverty), 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities) and 13 (Climate Action). Upon
adoption of the indicators by the General Assembly in early 2017, UNISDR worked closely with Member
States to develop an on-line monitoring system, through an iterative and consultative process, including an
initial Readiness Review analysis to identify reporting gaps and capacities. UNISDR also developed specific
technical guidance for reporting and conducted extensive capacity building to enable countries meet their
reporting obligations against the Sendai Framework and the Sustainable Development Goals.
UNISDR convened, and the government of Mexico hosted, the Global Platform 2017 in Cancun, Mexico. The
first major gathering since the World Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction in 2015, the Global Platform, which
included the Leaders’ Forum, ministerial roundtables, plenary sessions, special sessions, working sessions
and special events, identified the need to prioritise the following topics: monitoring implementation of the
Sendai Framework; achieving Target (e) – “Substantially increase the number of countries with national and
local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020”; coherence with the sustainable development and climate
change agendas; gender-sensitive and inclusive disaster risk reduction; and international cooperation
initiatives, such as public-private cooperation and building a coalition of countries for critical infrastructure.
Throughout 2016 and 2017 UNISDR supported the convening of Regional and Sub-Regional Platforms in,
chronologically, Africa (Mauritius), Asia-Pacific (India), the Americas (Canada), Europe (Turkey), the Pacific
(Fiji), the Arab States region (Qatar), Central Asia and the South Caucasus (Tajikistan), and Central Africa,

13

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

BIENNIUM
HIGHLIGHTS

10,000 +

Participants in Global,
Regional and
Sub-Regional
Platforms

99

Countries use UNISDR
disaster loss database
system, Sendai
DesInventar

3,858

Cities part of UNISDR Making
Cities Resilient Campaign

38

Global Indicators to monitor
progress against the 7 Sendai
Targets agreed by all UN
Member States

7

Common Indicators to
monitor Sendai Framework
and SDGs

109

Member States trained in the
use of the Sendai Framework
Monitor

2,387

Officials from National and
Local Governments from
81 Countries trained by
UNISDR, of whom

40%
women

14

Cameroon. Over the course of the biennium, UNISDR supported the revision of existing
strategies to ensure alignment with the Sendai Framework through providing technical
inputs and capacity development sessions in all five regions.
UNISDR retrofitted DesInventar, its open-source disaster inventory system, and launched
on January 1, 2018, DesInventar Sendai, an updated version which enables countries to
manage all the data required for the monitoring of Sendai Framework Targets (a) to (d) which
in turn contributes to the reporting against indicators for SDGs 1, 11 and 13. Throughout the
biennium, UNISDR supported 68 Member States on the use, development, maintenance and
retrofitting of disaster loss databases, bringing the total number of Member States using the
Sendai DesInventar system to 99.
Target (e) of the Sendai Framework, “substantially increase the number of countries with
national and local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020”, is the first deadline in the
Sendai targets. Over the course of the biennium, UNISDR supported 46 Member States to
develop and update their national strategies and plans. UNISDR also worked closely with
Member States and United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
secretariat to ensure coherence and linkages between disaster risk reduction strategies
and national adaptation plans (NAPs). To support disaster risk reduction efforts at local
level, UNISDR provides almost 4,000 local governments participating in the Making Cities
Resilient Campaign with tools, best practices and policy guidance to implement the
Sendai Framework at the local level. A major revision to the Campaign’s Disaster Resilience
Scorecard was presented at the 2017 Global Platform. The Scorecard provides a set of
assessments that cover the policy and planning, engineering, organisational, financial,
social and environmental aspects of disaster resilience.
As the focal point for disaster risk reduction in the UN system, UNISDR led and facilitated
the revision of the UN Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience: Towards
a Risk-informed and Integrated Approach to Sustainable Development, which provides
an opportunity for the United Nations to actively work as one towards meeting the 2030
Agenda. The United Nations Senior Leadership Group on Disaster Risk Reduction for
Resilience, chaired by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk
Reduction, was formed in 2017 to ensure full implementation of the UN Plan of Action.
UNISDR worked with other organisations in the United Nations system to conduct joint
disaster risk reduction assessments, update databases and support the integration of
resilience considerations in new United Nations Development Assistance Frameworks
(UNDAFs), thus risk-informing both the United Nations global response to meeting national
development priorities as well as contributing to coordination at the country-level. Over
the course of the biennium UNISDR also worked closely with UN Regional Coordinators
(RCs) and UN Country Teams (UNCTs) to promote the joint implementation of the UN Plan of
Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience.
UNISDR supported Member States to reflect Sendai Framework’s priorities in the follow-up
and review of the other major agreements adopted in 2015 and 2016. During the biennium,
the High Level Political Forum for Sustainable Development (HLPF) was at the centre of
this effort. In collaboration with Member States, United Nations entities and stakeholder
groups, UNISDR organised several side-events and workshops on disaster risk reduction
and the SDGs in the margins of the HLPF in 2016 and 2017. This enabled such results as
the recognition of the important contribution of disaster risk reduction for sustainable
development in the 2017 HLPF Ministerial Declaration and the inclusion of the Sendai
Framework in the guidelines for countries to develop their Voluntary National Reviews.
In the final quarter of 2017 UNISDR joined the Inter Agency Task Force (IATF) on Financing
for Development and contributed to its report to the 2018 ECOSOC Forum on Financing for
Development (FFD). Subsequently, one of the report’s overarching messages is the need
for greater focus on prevention and disaster risk reduction, including the development of

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

UNISDR TOP BIENNIUM DONORS 2016-17 IN MILLIONS USD

European Commission

13.4M

Sweden

11.1M

Japan
Germany

4.4M

Republic of Korea

4.3M

5.6M

Switzerland

3.6M
3.2M

USA

2.9M

Finland

2.2M

Earmarked

1.3M

Norway
Ireland

1.1M

India

1.0M

Unearmarked

0.6M

China

0.6M

Luxembourg

0.5M

0.3M

Canada

0M

2M

4M

6M

8M

10M

12M

14M

institutional frameworks and financing mechanisms. Disaster risk reduction will feature on the Financing for
Development (FFD) agenda for the first time in 2018, including in the high-level dialogue between the United
Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions.
UNISDR global communication and advocacy effort enhanced awareness of disaster risk reduction through
global, regional, national and local events and outreach throughout the biennium. UNISDR implemented
the Sendai Seven Campaign: Seven Targets, Seven Years, as the theme for the 13 October International Day
for Disaster Reduction to raise awareness annually on each of the Seven Targets of the Sendai Framework.
UNISDR also supported advocacy efforts related to the World Tsunami Awareness Day with events, training
sessions, and panel discussions in all regions. In the period under review the total number of cities joining the
Making Cities Resilient Campaign grew to 3,858.
In alignment with the UN Secretary General’s vision for change, UNISDR initiated an Organisational Review
and Change Management Process in 2016 to enhance its focus, business model and ensure it was fit for
purpose to deliver its mandate. Commitments to strengthen organisational efficiency, safeguard financial
sustainability and further develop gender-sensitive internal policies and approaches underpinned the
process. The series of actions implemented included strengthening its regional presence, improving
performance management, optimising business processes and reinforcing an organisational culture based on
transparency, trust and accountability for results. A new organisational structure reduced the top heaviness
of the organisation and the overall proportion of budget spent on staff costs, without reducing the number
of staff. The new structure strengthened UNISDR’s regional presence and was implemented at a record pacethe average speed for UNISDR to fill the over 30 posts advertised as part of the change process was 60 days,
while the UN Secretariat average is 157 days.
Over the course of the 2016-2017 Biennium UNISDR raised US $57.6 million against an initial requirement of
US $74.9 million. While not meeting its financial target, UNISDR received on significant in-kind contributions,
most notably towards the 2017 Global Platform. UNISDR also continues to diversify its support base, with
India and Canada becoming new donors over the Biennium.

15

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

1 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE
S01

STRENGTHEN GLOBAL MONITORING, ANALYSIS AND
COORDINATION OF SENDAI FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION

Result 1.1: 	 Global progress of the Sendai Framework and related
SDG targets assessed
Result 1.2: 	 Global risk data, analysis and policy advice generated
Result 1.3: 	 Global coordination and review mechanisms convened

UNISDR supported the work of the Open-ended Intergovernmental Expert Working Group on Indicators
and Terminology relating to Disaster Risk Reduction (OIEWG). After 14 months of work, through an
intergovernmental process, the Group agreed upon specific global indicators to monitor progress in
achieving the seven global targets of the Sendai Framework and on the disaster risk reduction terminology.
In February 2017, the UN General Assembly endorsed the recommendations of the OIEWG through General
Assembly Resolution (A/RES/71/276). The 38 global indicators will now enable Member States and the global
community to systematically track progress in preventing creation of new risks and reducing existing risks,
as well as strengthening resilience of communities and countries. Ultimately, the indicators will provide tools
to ensure accountability, which is a cornerstone of the Sendai Framework.
Concurrently, UNISDR worked closely with the Inter-Agency and Expert Working Group on Sustainable
Development Indicators (IAEG-SDGs) to ensure close coordination on the use of common indicators for
reporting. These efforts culminated in the approved use of seven Sendai Framework indicators for SDG 1
- eradicating poverty, SDG 11 - sustainable cities and communities, and SDG 13 - Climate Action, at the 48th
Session of the UN Statistical Commission. These developments reflect the UN commitment to place disaster
risk reduction at the heart of the Sustainable Development Goals.
This common reporting system will enhance international, national and local knowledge and understanding
of the inherent linkages and interdependencies between sustainable development, disaster risk reduction
and climate change. It will decrease the reporting burden on Member States and, equally important, create
the conditions for enhanced collaboration amongst Ministries in sharing of data and for coherent planning
across different agendas. At the international level, the common reporting system is also setting an important
precedent for other similar processes: UNISDR is currently working closely with the UN Framework Convention
on Climate Change and UN Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) to support Member States in leveraging the Sendai Framework indicators to potentially monitor progress of the Paris Agreement and the New Urban
Agenda.
With the indicators adopted by the General Assembly, UNISDR began development of a prototype of the Sendai
Framework Monitoring System. This is a global on-line tool for countries to report and monitor progress
on the implementation of the seven targets. The system enables countries to align their reporting with their
national strategies, and related dimensions of the SDGs and climate change adaptation plans. UNISDR made
the prototype available for initial testing at the 2017 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction and further
developed the Monitor system itself while conducting end-user consultations and trainings concurrently. This
work culminated in the launch of the on-line Monitoring System on 1 March 2018.1
As each country faces a unique set of challenges and require customised responses, UNISDR is also
supporting the development of national custom indicators to enable countries to measure progress against
nationally determined targets and priorities aligned with the Sendai Framework. Countries can report
against these nationally determined indicators through the on-line Monitoring System. Multiple ministries
and levels of government can be delegated by the National Sendai Framework Monitoring Coordinators to
input information into the Sendai Framework Monitoring system. Thereby encouraging an all-of-government
approach, including at the local level, to input data directly into the monitoring system.
16

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

S01
President of Mexico, Mr. Enrique Peña Nieto and the UN Deputy Secretary-General, Ms. Amina Mohammed speaking at the 2017 Global Platform

Supporting monitoring and reporting towards achieving targets of the Sendai
Framework
In 2017, UNISDR developed Technical Guidance for Monitoring and Reporting on Progress in Achieving
the Global Targets of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.2 These guidance notes are
crucial for countries to understand minimum standards and metadata for disaster-related data, statistics and
analysis. It provides suggestions to Member States and technical partners in regards to applicable definitions
and terminology, computational methodologies and data standards.
The aim of the technical guidance is to allow for consistent measurement of progress towards the global
targets across countries and over the duration of the implementation of the Sendai Framework and
Sustainable Development Goals, by sharing minimum standards which describe a common and detailed
international understanding of indicators, data required, and standard reporting methodology.
To develop this technical guidance, UNISDR conducted consultations, which included technical meetings at
the 2017 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction. UNISDR also worked closely with the statistics offices
of the UN Economic Regional Commissions, in particular the UN Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE)
and the UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP), to support standard setting
related to disaster statistics. National statistical offices also contributed to the development of the technical
guidance.
In 2017, UNISDR developed and conducted a survey to assess the availability of national disaster-related
data to report on the Sendai Framework indicators, capacity gaps and resources needed to fill them, and the
availability of current baselines from which to measure the global targets of the Sendai Framework. UNISDR
analysed the findings of the survey responses by 87 countries in the Sendai Framework Data Readiness
Review 2017. The findings showed that while data was available for Targets (a) and (b) in most countries (83%
and 66% respectively), data became increasingly limited, with only an average of 20-25% data availability for
Target (f). The report indicated that data capacity needs must be addressed comprehensively, by expanding
data availability through developing and acquiring new data, creating common methodologies and standards
for enhanced data quality and by creating common data sharing platforms and protocols to enhance data
accessibility and applicability. Over 90% of the countries indicated the need for financial resources to cover
17

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

S01

“The Sendai Framework puts the focus squarely on
prevention. Governments working with other stakeholders,
such as mayors, community groups, women’s organisations,
private sector, parliamentarians, youth groups, to name
just a few, have to give the same priority to managing
disaster risk as they give to managing disasters.”
Ms. Amina Mohammed,
Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations

data gaps, and many countries, particularly those in special situations, reported significant capacity gaps
and technological deficiencies which hinder their ability to track progress.
Subsequently, to support the monitoring process, UNISDR organised a technical workshop in December
2017, inviting senior staff of National Statistics Offices (NSO) and other relevant national data custodians
to promote knowledge on data entry, analytical capabilities of the system, as well as levels of application
(global, regional, national, local). At the workshop countries (amongst others Armenia, Australia, Brazil, Fiji,
Lebanon and the Seychelles) shared information about their efforts to prepare for reporting. UNISDR and
other technical institutions and UN agencies shared expertise related to the various indicators, for example,
WHO outlined opportunities and challenges associated with capturing data associated with mortality and
health-related indicators.
The data reported by Member States through the on-line Sendai Framework Monitoring System from
March 2018 will be the basis for UNISDR to contribute to the report on progress towards implementing the
Sustainable Development Goals in July 2018.
At the Third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction over 500 voluntary commitments were
announced in support to the implementation of the Sendai Framework. UNISDR began in the biennium
under review the development of an on-line system to monitor these commitments.

Understanding the broadened scope of hazards and risks
One significant characteristic of the Sendai Framework is the broadened scope of hazards and risk to
be addressed. Small- and large-scale, frequent and infrequent, sudden and slow onset disasters caused
by natural or man-made hazards, as well as related environmental, technological and biological hazards
and risks are now all included. This creates new requirements and new opportunities for those involved
in building resilience to the shocks to which societies are exposed, and articulated the need for improved
understanding of risk in all its dimensions.
UNISDR initiated a review of its Global Risk Assessment by conducting a survey of risk information users in
a number of sample countries. Building also on the outcome of the external evaluation of the Global Risk
Assessment, in November 2017 (see following page), UNISDR convened an Expert Meeting on the Global
Risk Assessment Framework, bringing together 110 eminent experts in hazard and risk modelling from all
regions of the world to examine existing risk models in public and private domains and identify gaps and
opportunities for enhanced collaboration towards a global assessment of risk within the broader scope of
the Sendai Framework and the 2030 Agenda.
As recommended by the Expert Meeting, UNISDR initiated the development of a Global Risk Assessment
Framework (GRAF) to provide risk information, across the full spectrum of hazards and risks covered by the
Sendai Framework, with emphasis on vulnerability, exposure and impact across sectors and geographies, to
enhance risk-informed decision-making. The design and development of the GRAF will continue in the same
vein by following a broad consultative process with guidance from an Expert Group. The GRAF is expected to
be launched at the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction in May 2019. It will highlight the changes in
global risk assessment post-2015, the evolution in approach to reflect more accurately risk in society, with
an understanding that data or information on vulnerability (social and environmental) is severely underdeveloped and will be a priority area for expanded work.

18

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

UNISDR SENDAI FRAMEWORK DATA READINESS REVIEW

Overview of availability, quality and accessibility of national disaster-related data required to
report on the 38 Sendai Framework Indicators, as reported to UNISDR by 87 countries.
100

S01

90
80

TARGET A
Mortality

TARGET B

Affected People

TARGET C

Economic losses

TARGET D

TARGET E

Critical
DRR Strategies
infrastructure &
services

Proxy

Evacuated people

Risk information available

Local Governments and EWS

People Covered by EWS

Proxy

TARGET F

International
cooperation

Early Warning Systems

National DRR Strategies

Local DRR Strategies

National DRR Strategies

Disruptions to services

Critical infrastructure

Heath and education

Cultural heritage

Housing sector

Productive assets

Agriculture

Livelihoods

Dwellings

10

Injured and Ill

20

Critical infrastructure

30

Technology support

40

International support (ODA + official flows)

Proxy

Proxy

50

Deaths
Missing Persons

Percentage of reporting countries

60

Proxy

Proxy

70

TARGET G

Early warning
systems

Note: In order to capture a broader set of data, the readiness review included questions that allowed the assessment of data availability and
sources that could serve as a proxy for the indicators.

Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction
Since 2009, UNISDR has published a biennial, in-depth analysis of risk trends, patterns, progress and challenges
in understanding and managing disaster risk - the Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction
(GAR). This has become the flagship publication of UNISDR.
In 2016, an external evaluation of the GAR was undertaken to assess: a) the quality, scientific credibility and
depth of content, b) process, c) impact, outreach, influence on policy-makers, and d) the future of GAR in support
of Sendai Framework implementation. In summary, the evaluation found that the GAR has made significant
impact in terms of: i) contributions to international frameworks, ii) producing multi-hazard, open data global
risk assessment, iii) generating new national disaster loss data, iv) initiating DRR research, v) providing high
quality evidence for dialogue with policy makers to bring about institutional change, and vi) strong processes
and partnerships. The evaluation also showed however, that a weak communications strategy has limited
uptake of its recommendations and the potential for impact. The evaluation recommended the continued
production of a redefined GAR as a broad research, advocacy and policy engagement initiative which would
be supporting implementation of the Sendai Framework and the 2030 Agenda.
Instead of the usual format of GAR, in 2017, UNISDR launched the GAR Risk Atlas, which provides a global
visual account of where and how disaster risk can undermine development. It estimates the probability of
future disaster losses in the built environment for five major hazards – earthquakes, tsunamis, river flooding,
and tropical cyclones, plus winds and storm surge – for every country and territory in the world. The GAR Atlas
was launched online, as an application, and in a limited edition print format with icons that allow readers to
see the hazard maps in augmented reality using their smart phones.3
In preparation of the next Global Assessment Report 2019 (GAR19), to be launched at the Global Platform
2019 the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction constituted a new
Advisory Board reflecting a broad spectrum of expertise. Further to the review of the Advisory Board, a
concept note and a call for papers for GAR19 launched the preparatory process early in 2018. The 2019 Global
Assessment Report will also introduce the Global Risk Assessment Framework (GRAF), and future editions
will feature the risk information outputs of this collaborative undertaking.

19

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

S01

Drawing on the data, research and outputs that
have been integral to the global risk assessment,
its global risk model, and the Global Assessment
Report (GAR), UNISDR has supported the
development of policy guidance, knowledge tools
and the development of standards throughout
the biennium. Of note, is the development of the
National Disaster Risk Assessment Words into
Action knowledge product (see page 36). UNISDR
Regional Offices incorporated risk knowledge
in trainings and policy guidance towards the
development of national risk profiles and
strategies. The analysis of the GAR has also
been a key input to make the case for disaster
risk considerations in the context of enhanced
coherence in the follow-up mechanisms of the
broader 2030 Agenda.
The Global Risk Assessment Framework and
the Global Assessment Report have both been
acknowledged as part of the broader UN
Integrated Platform on Prevention, and efforts
are underway to ensure coherence with other
initiatives and actors, within and outside of
the UN system, to achieve comprehensive risk
analysis for decision-making.

Bonn Office Highlights
In 2017, as part of the UNISDR Change
Management process, UNISDR strengthened
its presence in Bonn, Germany,
and
transformed the office into the UNISDR hub to
support governments as they report progress
against the targets and indicators of the
Sendai Framework. The Bonn office will also
ensure closer coherence and coordination
in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda,
taking advantage of the common presence
in Bonn of the Secretariat of United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC). The UNISDR Bonn team developed
the Sendai Framework Monitoring system,
technical guidance notes on using the Sendai
Framework Monitor system and supported
UNISDR Regional Offices to train 109 Member
States in addition to key stakeholders in the
use of the System prior to its launch on 1
March 2018.

One key thematic area that UNISDR emphasised
across its activities in the biennium under review
was enhanced understanding of the gender
dimensions of disaster risk - the importance of gender-responsive disaster risk reduction strategies, and the
need for systematic collection of sex-disaggregated data to identify the specific needs and vulnerabilities of
women and girls. In order to support this work, UNISDR, UN Women and the International Federation of Red
Cross and Red Crescent Societies launched a joint program entitled “Addressing the gender inequality of risk
and promoting community resilience to natural hazards in a changing climate” at the 2017 Global Platform
to support gender responsive implementation of the Sendai Framework.

Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction 2017 in Cancun, Mexico
In 2017, UNISDR organised, in close coordination with the host country Mexico, the largest Global
Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (Global Platform) to date with over 4,200 participants to accelerate
implementation of the Sendai Framework, build partnerships and augment domestic and international
efforts to reduce disaster risk.
Participants included Heads of State and Government, ministers, mayors and parliamentarians, as well as,
representatives of intergovernmental organizations, local governments, local communities, civil society
organisations, indigenous peoples, women’s groups, children and youth, persons with disabilities, science,
academia, the private sector and the UN system.
Participants shared lessons and good practice, highlighted the latest technologies and approaches and
forged partnerships to strengthen cooperation, including South-South and triangular cooperation, as well as
innovative partnerships between non-governmental organizations and the public and private sectors.
The  deliberations across sessions namely, the Leaders’ Forum, ministerial roundtables, plenary sessions,
special sessions, working sessions and special events, identified the need to prioritize the following topics:
monitoring implementation of the Sendai Framework; achieving Target (e) – “Substantially increase the
number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020”; coherence with the
sustainable development and climate change agendas; gender-sensitive and inclusive disaster risk reduction;
and international cooperation initiatives, such as  private-private cooperation and building a coalition of
countries for critical infrastructure.
20

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

At the Leaders’ Forum, the highest-level session of the 2017 Global Platform, participants agreed to apply
disaster risk management in overall economic planning as a lynchpin for sustainable development, resilient
infrastructure and job creation. The leaders also committed to conduct a disaster risk assessment of existing
critical infrastructure by 2019 and to strengthen the enforcement of regulatory frameworks and building
codes.4

S01

Stakeholders came together to coordinate efforts in disaster risk reduction and to hold themselves and the
global community accountable to implementation of the Sendai Framework. Many stakeholders committed
to undertaking concrete and measurable actions to implement the Framework such as supporting the
standardisation of methodologies and guidelines for data collection, the provision of geospatial data and use
of other technologies to identify emerging risks.
The Chair’s Summary of the Global Platform was submitted to the President of ECOSOC as a contribution
to the High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development. UNISDR compiled and published the 2017
Global Platform Proceedings, which included the Chair’s Summary and brief overviews and video links of
the discussions conducted throughout the conference in all six UN languages.5
The impact of the Global Platform was emphasised in both the outcome documents and follow-up evaluation
underscored the critical importance of the Global Platform as a mechanism to track progress, guide
implementation and promote innovation at regional and global levels. The Global Platform was instrumental
in setting the agenda for the regional platforms in 2018 and thereby ensuring continued momentum in the
implementation of the Sendai Framework.
In light of the heightened responsibility placed on the Global Platform through the Sendai Framework as a
key mechanism for monitoring progress and catalysing action, UNISDR decided as part of the UNISDR change
process to allocate a full-time position to coordinate the Global Platform process and ensure linkages with the
Regional Platforms, the HLPF and other relevant processes.

Sendai Framework Monitoring Process (2018-2019)
Targets:
All Targets (A-G)

Targets:
All Targets (A-G)

Reporting Period:
2015, 2016, 2017

Reporting Period:
2005-2014 (baseline data)

Contributes to:
2019 Global Platform
and 2019 GAR

Contributes to:
Baseline information for SDGs
and Sendai Framework

1 October
2018

30 April
2019

31 March
2018

31 March
2019

Targets:
A, B, C, D, E
(related to SDG indicators)

Targets:
A, B, C, D, E
(related to SDG indicators)
Reporting Period:
2018

Reporting Period:
2017
Contributes to:
2018 SDG Report and
2018 HLPF

Contributes to:
2019 SDG Report and
2019 HLPF

Note:
SDG: Sustainable Development Goals
HLPF: High Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development
GAR: UNISDR Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction

21

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

2 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE

SUPPORT TO REGIONAL AND NATIONAL SENDAI
FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION
Result 2.1: 	 Regional and national coordination mechanisms are leveraged
to monitor and accelerate Sendai Framework implementation
Result 2.2: 	 National disaster risk reduction strategies and plans are
developed in line with Sendai Framework prescribed guidance

S02

Result 2.3: 	 Build capacity of counterparts, United Nations Country Teams
and partners for leadership in disaster risk reduction

Regional and sub-regional platforms leveraged
During the reporting period of this document, UNISDR supported the convening of Regional and SubRegional Platforms in, chronologically, Africa (Mauritius), Asia-Pacific (India), the Americas (Canada),
Europe (Turkey), the Pacific (Fiji), the Arab States region (Qatar), Central Africa (Cameroon), Central Asia
and the South Caucasus (Tajikistan). The meetings agreed on regional disaster risk reduction strategies
and plans and resulted in multi-stakeholder commitments to address cross-border hazards, identify
regional resources, share best practices and agree on common strategies (see regional offices section).
Participants consistently recognized the importance of these regional platforms for advancing their
work domestically and facilitating regional coordination.
In 2017, UNISDR began preparations for Regional Platforms to be held in 2018: Americas region in
Colombia (June), the sub-regional platform for the Central Asia-South Caucasus Region in Armenia
(June), the Asia-Pacific region in Mongolia (July), Africa and Arab States regions in Tunisia (October),
and the European region in Italy (November). These preparations included stakeholder dialogues,
liaising/consulting with host countries, developing agendas and providing guidance and information
to build programmatic and political linkages amongst regions and between Regional and Sub-Regional
Platforms, the Global Platform and High Level Political Forum processes.

Regional coordination and implementation with partners
UNISDR provides technical support to, and works closely with, regional intergovernmental organisations
to develop and monitor regional disaster risk reduction strategies. This work enables the mainstreaming of
disaster risk reduction into the policy and programming of the intergovernmental organisations. The number
of regional intergovernmental policy statements about disaster risk reduction delivered at the 2017 Global
Platform, such as by the African Union and the Arab League, showcased the impact of UNISDR’s work with
these organisations to foster cohesive policy development and mainstream disaster risk reduction into their
guiding principles.
Over the course of the biennium, UNISDR supported the revision of 63 existing disaster risk reduction
national strategies to ensure alignment with the Sendai Framework through providing technical inputs and
capacity development sessions in all five regions. UNISDR also supported the development of new regional
strategies in all five regions, in particular with regional economic communities in Africa. UNISDR worked closely
with key partners on strategic sectoral and thematic strategies, such as with the UN Food and Agricultural
Organisation (FAO) to develop a regional strategy for disaster risk management in the agricultural sector for
food and nutrition security in the Americas. The impact of this work was evident in the European region through
EU Council decisions, such as a Special Directive on Sendai Framework implementation, referred to in an EC
Communication to strengthen capital markets (for more information, see the regional offices section).
22

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

S02

A workshop in Trinidad and Tobago co-organised by UNISDR and the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency (CDEMA).

Over the course of the biennium UNISDR worked closely with Regional UN Development Groups
(R-UNDGs), UN Regional Coordination Mechanisms (RCMs), UN Resident Coordinators (RCs) and UN
Country Teams (UNCTs) to promote the joint implementation of the UN Plan of Action on Disaster Risk
Reduction for Resilience, including through the organisation of specific trainings. In 2017, UNISDR worked
with other UN entities to conduct 54 joint disaster risk reduction assessments, update databases and
support the integration of resilience considerations in the new United Nations Development Assistance
Frameworks (UNDAFs), thus risk-informing both the UN collective and coherent response to meeting
national development priorities and the UN country-level platform for coordination. UNISDR directly
supported the mainstreaming of disaster risk reduction in UNDAFs in Africa, Eastern Europe, Asia-Pacific
and the Americas regions. UNISDR also organised meetings and briefings on the UN Plan of Action as
part of UN Development Groups (UNDG) meetings to inform common country programming, including
development of guidance tools for the implementation of the 2017 UNDAF Guidance. UN System Staff
College and UNISDR initiated interviews with stakeholders to prepare for the launch of an on-line course
in 2018 to enhance understanding of the linkages between the Sendai Framework and 2030 Agenda (for
more on this deliverable see the regional offices sections of this report).

DesInventar Sendai
Disaster loss databases are a crucial instrument to produce and operationalise risk information for risk
assessments, the development of disaster risk reduction strategies, policy making and risk governance.
Disaster loss databases are also a basic source of information for reporting on the first four Sendai
Framework Targets (a)-(d) namely mortality, affected people, economic loss, and damage to critical
infrastructure and disruption to basic services. The database is also critical for developing a baseline for
calibration and validation of results.
UNISDR has been working with Member States for more than a decade to record and analyse disaster
trends and their impacts in a systematic way through an open source disaster inventory system called
DesInventar. With the adoption of the 38 indicators to measure the progress against the achievement of
the seven targets of the Sendai Framework, UNISDR retrofitted DesInventar and launched at the beginning
of 2018 a new system renamed, DesInventar Sendai.6
DesInventar Sendai, similar to the previous system, is a methodology and software, which enables the
collection of detailed and homogeneous loss and damage data about disasters at all scales (temporal
and spatial) and allows the capture of disaster information that is location- and time-stamped, enabling
also the analysis of disaster loss and damage through charts, graphs and statistical reports. The tool
helps countries to understand disaster trends, patterns and impacts in a systematic way and, as it makes
disaster impacts more visible, it facilitates dialogue and policy discussions. This increased understanding
of disaster impacts, better prevention, mitigation and preparedness measures can be used to assess risks
and develop national and local strategies for disaster risk reduction by 2020 in line with Sendai Framework
Target (e). The new system enables countries to manage all the data required for the monitoring of Sendai
Framework Targets (a) to (d) which in turn contributes to the reporting against indicators for SDG 1 eradicating poverty, SDG 11 - sustainable cities and communities, and SDG 13 - Climate Action.7
23

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

“The world is making efforts in achieving the Sustainable
Development Goals with huge financial and human resources
involved, but little or no attention is given to disaster risk
reduction in the process. Disaster Risk Management should
be given the highest priority in our Development Agendas
to reduce the burden on our respective Economies”.
Mr. Barrow Kawsu, National Disaster Management Agency of Gambia
and Sendai Framework Monitor Focal Point

S02

In 2017, UNISDR drafted guidance notes on the
use and recording of disaster loss information and
provided trainings on the collection and use of
data disaggregated by gender, age, income and
disabilities. UNISDR also encouraged partners to
support disaster loss database efforts, including
through the organisation of a working session at
the 2017 Global Platform on the topic. Through the
Global Platform session and other fora, stakeholders
emphasised the importance of standard
methodologies and guidelines for the collection of
data to build and maintain national loss databases
and risk assessments. UNISDR was recognised as
playing a critical role in setting these standards, as,
without common methodologies, the data gathered
through Sendai Framework Monitoring and SDG
reporting would not be comparable. The European
Union’s adoption of the same loss data accounting
standards is a key endorsement of the standards
UNISDR continues to promote.
Throughout the biennium, UNISDR supported
68 Member States on the use, development,
maintenance and retrofitting of disaster loss
databases, bringing the total number of Member
States using the Sendai DesInventar system to 99
(as of April 2018). UNISDR also worked closely with
partners with a specific thematic focus, for example,
in West Africa, in light of the 2015 Ebola outbreak,
UNISDR worked closely with WHO to ensure that
data on losses related to the health sector were
recorded in the national loss databases (for more on
UNISDR’s loss database work see the regional offices
sections of this report).

Achieving Target (e) by 2020
Target (e) of the Sendai Framework, “substantially
increase the number of countries with national
and local disaster risk reduction strategies by
2020”, is the first deadline in the Sendai Framework
targets. Meeting this target is crucial in laying the
foundation for other disaster risk management
efforts. Over the course of the biennium, UNISDR
supported 29 Member States in developing
and updating national strategies and plans.
To support Member States in the development of
24

the strategies, UNISDR is coordinating partners
to develop a Words Into Action (WIA) Guide on
National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies which
promotes the integration of disaster risk reduction,
climate change and sustainable development
considerations. It will be a step-by-step guide to
Governments in developing their national disaster
risk reduction strategy in the context of sustainable
development. To monitor the implementation of
the strategies, UNISDR is supporting countries to
develop monitoring frameworks that feature the
Sendai Framework global targets and indicators as
well as nationally determined indicators.

Building Coherence between the Paris Agreement
and the Sendai Framework by ensuring coordination
of National Adaptation Plans (NAPS) and National
Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies (Target e) - UNISDR
has been working with the Secretariat of the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) for
more than a decade as climate change is a key driver of
disaster risk. In 2017, to reinforce coherence and linkages
between UNISDR and UNFCCC, UNISDR strengthened its
office in Bonn, Germany. Over the course of the biennium,
UNISDR worked closely with Member States and UNFCCC
secretariat to ensure coherence and linkages between
disaster risk reduction strategies and national adaptation
plans (NAPs). UNISDR actively participated in COP23 to
build coherence amongst the disaster risk reduction,
climate change and sustainable development agendas.
UNISDR also organised a workshop of experts involved
in drafting the different strategies to provide guidance
and share best practices on the strong linkages between
the National Adaptation Plans and National Disaster Risk
Reduction Strategies, for which countries share a common
target year of 2020. An outcome of this workshop was
the addition of supplementary guidance on disaster risk
reduction to the UNFCCC’s official technical guidance note
on National Adaptation Planning. In addition, UNISDR has
been working with the Adaptation Committee to organise
a workshop in 2018 to review the adequateness of the
Sendai Framework indicators to monitor progress on the
work of the Adaptation Programme.

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

UNISDR SENDAI FRAMEWORK DATA READINESS REVIEW

S02

Overview of the geographic distribution of the 87 countries that reported to UNISDR about
the availability, quality and accessibility of national disaster-related data required to report
on the 38 Sendai Framework Indicators.

Making Cities Resilient Campaign: Working with local governments
In order to prevent new and reduce existing disaster risk, local authorities from both urban and rural areas
must transform their approaches. They are required to constantly assess and revise their strategies, actions
and investments in line with the pace of social and economic development. To support local authorities,
UNISDR provided the almost 4,000 local governments participating in the Making Cities Resilient
Campaign with tools, best practices and policy guidance to implement the Sendai Framework at the local
level. Throughout the biennium, UNISDR worked in close collaboration with a variety of actors involved
in building urban resilience, notably UN-Habitat to build coherence with the New Urban Agenda, and the
eighteen members of the UNISDR Making Cities Resilient Campaign Steering Committee.8
A key outcome of this work was a major revision to the Campaign’s Disaster Resilience Scorecard, launched
at the 2017 Global Platform. The Scorecard provides a set of assessments that cover the policy and planning,
engineering, organisational, financial, social and environmental aspects of disaster resilience at the local
level. Designed to be led by local government authorities, the Scorecard aims to assist in monitoring and
reviewing progress in the implementation of the Sendai Framework. The revision was undertaken by UNISDR
private sector partners AECOM and IBM.9 In 2017, UNISDR also released a new Quick Risk Estimation (QRE)10
tool; How to Make Cities More Resilient: A Handbook for Local Government Leaders;11 and Local Government
Powers for Disaster Risk Reduction: A Study on Local-Level Authority and Capacity for Resilience.12 UNISDR also
began development of an online version of the Scorecard to facilitate easy use by local governments.
At present, 200 cities are implementing the Disaster Resilience Scorecard for Cities and will complete the
self-assessment in 2018 (50 in Africa, 50 in Latin America, 75 in Asia Pacific, 25 in Northeast Asia). Additionally,
20 pilot cities (6 in Asia Pacific, 5 in Africa, 5 in Americas and 4 in Arab States) are working towards the
development of local disaster risk reduction plans and strategies in line with Sendai Framework Target (e)

25

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

using Campaign tools and methodology developed by UNISDR’s Global Education and Training Institute
(GETI). Four kick-off regional workshops were conducted between late 2016 and early 2017 to engage 20
cities in establishing baseline status and developing disaster resilience action plans. Officials of the 20 cities,
and selected partner organisations, will be trained as trainers in 2018 on the methodology to be utilised to
develop disaster risk reduction plans from the Scorecard reports. This will ensure standardisation of the
approach to develop disaster risk reduction plans. The 20 cities will utilise the Disaster Resilience Scorecard
for Cities to understand the baseline, as well as determine the needs and actions required to achieve higher
resilience.

S02

Capacity building for national and local planning, implementation and
monitoring
The Sendai Framework underscored the critical enabling role of technical support to build the capacity
of institutions and professionals at the national and local level. In order to fulfil the expectation of the
Sendai Framework. UNISDR initiated a process to develop a new global strategic approach to reach agreement
and commitment of the main actors supporting capacity development to implement the Sendai Framework
on the actions and follow up required to achieve the Sendai Framework targets. UNISDR held consultations
towards the development this new strategic approach throughout 2017 with a view to 1) identifying gaps and
opportunities to build greater focus and coherence globally; and 2) incorporating the capacity development
efforts of key partners globally.
The consultations began with the UN Senior Leadership Group on Disaster Risk Reduction,13 and
continued at the 2017 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction, and included on-line consultations and a
concurrent literature review. In addition, seven regional in-person and online consultations were held with
over 200 representatives of Member States and other relevant stakeholders from Africa, the Americas,
Arab States, Asia-Pacific and Europe including United Nations agencies, non-governmental organizations,
regional intergovernmental organizations, academia state-lead and private sector stakeholders. A twoday consultation held in March this year sought to understand the most urgent capacity development
needs for Sendai Framework implementation and disaster risk sensitive development planning, the most
appropriate solutions to address the needs, and to establish a way forward to support capacity development
programming. A zero draft of the global capacity development strategy to support the implementation of
the Sendai Framework – an approach for all partners and stakeholders, was developed for expert consultation
and made available for public comment. The strategic approach aims to enable partners to work together
in a complementary way to ensure capacity development programmes lead to sustainable institutional
capacities with the aim of reducing disaster losses and strengthening resilience.14
Simultaneously throughout the biennium, UNISDR also implemented training programmes focused on
understanding disaster risk reduction and the importance of coherent implementation of the Sendai
Framework, the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement. Over the biennium, 2,387 national and local
government officials and other relevant stakeholders from 81 countries were trained - 40% of
participants were women. 36 training workshops, including six online, were conducted by UNISDR’s
Office for Northeast Asia and GETI in Incheon both in the Republic of Korea and in other countries,
to equip government officials with the necessary understanding of the Sendai Framework and related
tools to develop both national and local disaster risk reduction strategies and plans to achieve Target
(e) of the Sendai Framework. Training programme modules were updated throughout 2017 to reflect
coherence with the Agenda 2030 and other global agreements. UNISDR also continued to work on
improving follow-up mechanisms to track and analyse the impact of training and capacity development
programs.

26

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

S02
Community members on a flooded
street in Haiti as the water begins
to retreat after Hurricane Mathew.
27
UN Photo/Logan Abass

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

3 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE

CATALYSE ACTION THROUGH MEMBER STATES AND PARTNERS

Result 3.1: 	 Fostered policy coherence by engaging with Member States and
contributing to relevant intergovernmental processes
Result 3.2: 	 Coordination and advice is provided to all United Nations
System partners at global level towards effective and efficient
implementation of the Sendai Framework
Result 3.3: 	 Partnerships leveraged for increased financing for disaster risk
reduction and risk-sensitive investment

Intergovernmental processes for policy coherence in line with the Sendai
Framework
S03

UNISDR continued to highlight in intergovernmental processes the importance of coherence and consideration of disaster risk reduction as a key element of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. UNISDR
focuses on intergovernmental processes and agreements where the integration of disaster risk reduction
can make a direct contribution to the implementation of the Sendai Framework by contributing to reducing
existing stock of risk and preventing the creation of additional ones. The close interlinkage between disaster
risk reduction and climate change and the urgency to adopt complementary strategies to address both have
therefore been a major focus of UNISDR inter-governmental work.
UNISDR supported Member States to articulate the Sendai Framework’s priorities in the follow-up
and review of the other major inter-governmental agreements adopted in 2015 and 2016. During the
biennium, the High Level Political Forum (HLPF) was at the centre of this effort. In collaboration with
Member States, United Nations entities and stakeholder groups, UNISDR organised several side-events
and workshops on disaster risk reduction and the SDGs in the margins of the HLPF in 2016 and 2017.
This enabled such results as the recognition of the important contribution of disaster risk reduction
for sustainable development in the 2017 HLPF Ministerial Declaration and the inclusion of the Sendai
Framework in the guidelines for countries to develop their Voluntary National Reviews.
Beginning in 2017, UNISDR worked closely with the Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA) to
prepare the 2018 ECOSOC Integration Segment on the theme of leveraging technology and innovation to
build sustainable and resilient societies, which will include a session on technology in disaster risk reduction,
as well as in the substantive preparations for the Science, Technology and Innovation Forum. UNISDR also
strengthened collaboration with UN Water on the implementation of the International Decade for Action
on Water for Sustainable Development 2018-2028, with several commitments on reducing water-related
disaster risks contained in its Action Plan launched in March 2018.
Achievements during the 2016-2017 biennium laid the groundwork for further progress in 2018 and
2019. In the final quarter of 2017 UNISDR joined the Inter Agency Task Force (IATF) on Financing for
Development and contributed to its report to the 2018 ECOSOC Forum on Financing for Development
(FFD). Subsequently, one of the report’s overarching messages is the need for greater focus on prevention and
disaster risk reduction, including the development of institutional frameworks and financing mechanisms.
Disaster risk reduction will feature on the Forum on Financing for Development (FFD) agenda for the first time
in 2018, including in the high-level dialogue between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions.
Through its substantive inputs to Secretary-General’s reports on a range of issues related to sustainable
development, including on countries in special situations, development cooperation, as well as the
28

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

SENDAI FRAMEWORK

FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

NO
POVERTY

End poverty in all of
its forms

A 	 Reduce global disaster mortality
B 	 Reduce the number of affected people
globally
C 	 Reduce direct disaster economic loss in
relation to GDP

Making cities and human
settlements inclusive,
safe, resilient and
sustainable

D 	Reduce disaster damage to critical
infrastructure and disruption of basic
services

Take urgent action to
combat climate change
and its impacts

F 	 Substantially enhance international
cooperation to developing countries

E 	 Increase the number of countries with
national and local disaster risk reduction
strategies

G 	Increase the availability of and access to
multi-hazard early warning systems

COMMON SET OF INDICATORS

Sustainable Development Goal
Indicators

Sendai Framework
Indicators

1.5.1

Number of deaths, missing persons and directly affected persons attributed to disasters per
100,000 population

A1 and B1

1.5.2

Direct economic loss attributed to disasters in relation to global gross domestic product
(GDP)

C1

1.5.3

Number of countries that adopt and implement national disaster risk reduction strategies in
line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030

E1

1.5.4

Proportion of local governments that adopt and implement local disaster risk reduction
strategies in line with national disaster risk reduction strategies

E2

11.5.1

Number of deaths, missing persons and directly affected persons attributed to disasters per
100,000 population

A1 and B1

11.5.2

Direct economic loss in relation to global GDP, damage to critical infrastructure and number
of disruptions to basic services, attributed to disasters

C1, D1, D5

11.b.1

Number of countries that adopt and implement national disaster risk reduction strategies in
line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030

E1

11.b.2

Proportion of local governments that adopt and implement local disaster risk reduction
strategies in line with national disaster risk reduction strategies

E2

13.1.1

Number of deaths, missing persons and directly affected persons attributed to disasters per
100,000 population

A1 and B1

13.1.2

Number of countries that adopt and implement national disaster risk reduction strategies in
line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030

E1

13.1.3

Proportion of local governments that adopt and implement local disaster risk reduction
strategies in line with national disaster risk reduction strategies

E2

S03

SUSTAINABLE CITIES
AND COMMUNITIES

In 2016, the Open-ended Intergovernmental Expert Working Group on Indicators and Terminology (OIEWG) agreed upon
a set of indicators to measure the Sendai Framework, several of which were later adopted by UN Statistical Commission.
UNISDR served as the secretariat of the OIEWG, providing political, policy, legal and procedural advice, as well as logistical support, and worked closely with the Inter-agency and Expert Group on SDG Indicators (IAEG-SDGs) to support the
discussions related to the adoption and use of common indicators.

29

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

“We recognise that effective disaster risk
management contributes to sustainable development.
We underline the importance of strengthening disaster
risk reduction and early warning systems, in order
to minimise the consequences of disasters.”
Ministerial Declaration of the 2017 High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable
Development

S03

humanitarian-development nexus, UNISDR ensured
continued integration of disaster risk reduction into
key intergovernmental deliberations and outcomes.
UNISDR also worked to support delegates to further
integrate disaster risk reduction in relevant General
Assembly and ECOSOC deliberations.
UNISDR provided substantive support for deliberations on disaster risk reduction and sustainable
development at the Economic and Social Council
(ECOSOC). In May 2016, the ECOSOC convened a Special Meeting on the Impacts of the 2015/16 El Niño
phenomenon, followed by a Special Meeting on the
Aftermath of Recent Hurricanes in October 2017. The
latter meeting was important in calling for greater financing for disaster risk reduction and risk-informed
investment in infrastructure and housing.

Support Groups for Disaster Risk
Reduction
UNISDR continued to serve as secretariat to the
UNISDR Support Group in Geneva, under the
leadership of the Philippines, Sweden and Germany
consecutively. In New York, UNISDR supported the
Group of Friends of Disaster Risk Reduction, CoChaired by Australia, Indonesia, Norway and Peru,
in a two-year approach to capitalize on strategic
opportunities to promote coherence on disaster risk
reduction and sustainable development, in view of
the global stock-take of the SDGs at the 2019 HLPF
under the auspices of the General Assembly and the
first global report on the Sendai Framework targets.
UNISDR has also provided advice to the President
of the General Assembly and the ECOSOC President
to leverage disaster risk reduction to support their
priorities for sustainable development during their
tenure. Since assuming office in 2017, UNISDR has
provided substantive support to the Secretary-

30

Throughout the biennium, UNISDR New
York Liaison Office provided policy advice to
delegates in the shaping of deliberations and
decisions on sustainable development by the
UN governance bodies. In particular, the General
Assembly Second Committee resolutions on
disaster risk reduction and the effective global
response to address the impacts of the El
Niño phenomenon. These Second Committee
resolutions provided Member States, the United
Nations system, and other relevant stakeholders
with forward-looking guidance to implement
the Sendai Framework in coherence with the
2030 Agenda, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda,
the Paris Agreement and the SAMOA Pathway;
inclusive approaches to develop national and
local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020,
as per Target (e); promoting synergies with
existing national climate change adaptions
plans and sustainable development policies;
and stimulating risk-informed investments in
infrastructure, as per Target (d), while providing
political recognition for and benefitting from the
outcomes of the Global and Regional Platforms
for Disaster Risk Reduction to the High Level
Political Forum (HLPF).
These resolutions are informed by the Annual
Reports of the Secretary General on the
Implementation of the Sendai Framework
which are coordinated by UNISDR’s New York
Liaison Office. The reports provide an overview
of progress by Member States, regional
organisations, and stakeholder groups, and
the coordinated technical, policy and capacity
building support provided by the United Nations
systems, with strategic recommendations to
drive implementation further.

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

S03

UNISDR produced the data sculpture, designed by Professor Pablo Suarez (above), to model flood risk in Togo for the 2017 Global
Platform. UNISDR offered the data sculpture to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC). The IFRC is
now using the sculpture to continue teaching about disaster risk reduction around the world.

General and the Deputy Secretary-General who have also advocated for disaster risk reduction. Their
commitment to disaster risk reduction is evidenced by its inclusion as a core component of the SecretaryGeneral’s integrated approach to prevention and his recommendations for repositioning the United Nations
development system.

Working within the UN system
In 2016, UNISDR led and facilitated the revision of the UN Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for
Resilience: Towards a Risk-informed and Integrated Approach to Sustainable Development, which
provides a framework for the United Nations to actively work as one towards meeting the 2030 Agenda. It
was endorsed by the UN Chiefs Executive Board for Coordination (CEB) and 49 UN entities.
In April 2017, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction convened the
first meeting of the UN Senior Leadership Group on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience. The group is
comprised of senior leaders from the UN entities, and provides strategic direction to the implementation of
the UN Plan of Action. The second meeting in November 2017 focused on the Atlantic Hurricane Season’s
impact on the Caribbean and identified the challenges and opportunities for the UN system in addressing
disasters and climate risks.
The outcomes of these meetings have been followed up by the UNISDR-led UN Disaster Risk Reduction Focal
Points Inter-Agency Group comprised of technical working-level representatives from UN entities. Concrete
actions included a stock-taking exercise to identify gaps in the disaster risk reduction support provided by
the UN system, to reduce duplication and promote a more effective use of resources. In addition, the Focal
Points group finalised a results framework to implement the UN Plan of Action to strengthen accountability
across the UN system through measurable monitoring of progress. Guided by the results-based monitoring

31

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

system, the Senior Leadership Group will review progress on the Plan of Action, while continuing to promote
mainstreaming of disaster risk reduction across the UN. In 2017, to improve the impact of the UN Disaster
Risk Reduction Focal Points Inter-Agency Group, the Terms of Reference of the group were reviewed and
revised.
UNISDR worked closely in 2017 with seven UN entities towards the revision of the United Nations
Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) guidance that will support UN Country Teams (UNCTs) to
produce a new generation of UNDAFs. UNISDR also provided technical inputs in contribution to the UNDG-led
Sustainable Development Goals Acceleration toolkit, which resulted in the inclusion of datasets, risk models
and data viewers in the toolkit. These tools facilitate the efforts of UNCTs in addressing disaster and climate
risks in UNDAFs and other relevant activities.

Disaster risk financing

S03

Supporting Member States’ tracking and reporting on disaster risk reduction investments is required for
Sendai Framework Target (f): “Substantially enhance international cooperation to developing countries
through adequate and sustainable support to complement their national actions for implementation of
the present Framework by 2030.” UNISDR drafted and published a technical guidance note on the topic. In
addition, UNISDR continued to provide technical guidance on the development of a disaster risk reduction
policy marker for the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) Creditor Recording System. The
Marker was approved by the Working Party on Statistics of the DAC in January 2018 and is a critical tool
for countries to begin reporting funding which contributes to disaster risk reduction, as it will: 1) Provide
an incentive for donors to mainstream disaster risk reduction in development assistance; 2) Promote the
idea that disaster risk reduction is a development priority, as well as a humanitarian one; 3) Ensure data
homogeneity and comparability, possibly extending to national accounts in due course; 4) Allow qualitative
measuring of disaster risk reduction mainstreaming; and 5) Coexist with the OECD DAC Climate Change
Adaptation Marker.15

Private Sector Pre-meeting, ‘Business for Resilience’ session of the 2017 Global Platform (above from left to right: Mr. Jesus Gonzalez
Arellano, KPMG Mexico and President Global Compact Mexico; Ms. Estelle Parker, of the Depart of Foreign Affairs and Trade of
Australia; Mr. Robert Glasser, former Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Disaster Reduction, Co-Chair, ARISE;
Mr. Luis Felipe Puente, National Coordinator of Civil Protection, Mexico; Mr. Aris Papadopoulous, Chairman STET, Board Member ARISE;
and Ms. Sandra Wu, Chairperson and CEO Kokusai Kyogo, Board Member ARISE).

32

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

UNISDR also continued its outreach and engagement with the international financial industry, to ensure
its engagement in implementing the Sendai Framework. This includes the role of financial regulators and
accounting bodies in managing disaster risk. UNISDR did this through the direct engagement by the SRSG
in critical global private sector initiatives, such as on the insurance protection gap through the International
Cooperative and Mutual Insurance Federation (ICMIF), the Insurance Development Forum (IDF), the Basel
Committees and the Financial Stability Board of the G20, and the High-Level Expert Group on Sustainable
Finance to integrate disaster risk into the insurance and banking regulatory system.

Promoting risk-sensitive private sector investments
In 2017, UNISDR continued its partnership with the private sector. The increasing awareness and
understanding of disaster risk-related liabilities for businesses was clearly reflected in the active engagement
of private sector partners at the highest level across the 2017 Global Platform.
Over the biennium, UNISDR worked closely with private sector entities on research, most notably the 2016
report with the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), entitled Towards disaster-risk sensitive investments: The
Disaster Risk-Integrated Operational Risk Model. The study focussed on the findings of a model applied
to 20 pilot countries and built on five domains, 23 indicators and 82 sub-indicators, both qualitative and
quantitative. The model reveals a range of behaviours, strategies and approaches, used by a diverse set of
countries to manage disaster risk and provides a benchmark that is valuable, both in terms of helping other
countries to identify good practices, and in directing businesses to make more sustainable investments.16

S03

One of UNISDR’s mechanisms for engaging with the private sector is the UNISDR Private Sector Alliance for
Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE), which aims to promote risk-sensitive business investment through the
integration of disaster risk into business plans and strategies. The launch of new national ARISE networks,
in Canada, the US, Colombia, Chile, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Peru, Guatemala, Honduras and a regional
network in the Caribbean, brought the total of ARISE members to 190 by the end of 2017. The 2017 Annual
General Meeting of ARISE initiated revision of the ARISE Strategy to reflect lessons learned over the past two
years, as well as global developments such as a strengthened partnership between the UN and the private
sector proposed under the ongoing UN Reform. ARISE members provided inputs into key UNISDR initiatives,
including the provision of data, knowledge and expertise such as the engagement of ARISE members in the
revision of the Disaster Resilience Scorecard for Cities and the engagement of risk modellers in the Global
Risk Assessment Framework. UNISDR also continued training key private sector representatives globally
on such topics as understanding disaster risk, business continuity planning and building multi-stakeholder
resilience, in an effort to decrease existing risk and prevent the creation of new risk; UNISDR has trained 500
private sector representatives globally to date.
ARISE members and other private sector representatives actively engaged in the 2017 Global Platform,
with many companies represented at the CEO-level. At the Global Platform the representatives launched
a manifesto, Business for Resilience, to mobilise business in support of the goals of the Sendai Framework.

Building the science base for disaster risk reduction
Aligned with the importance of a science-based approach to disaster risk reduction for risk-informed
development highlighted by the Sendai Framework, the UNISDR Global Scientific and Technology
Advisory Group (G-STAG) has been enhanced in terms of its scope and resources. To better engage
scientists, researchers and technology experts in the development and implementation of regional and
national disaster risk reduction strategies and plans. Five regional STAGs are also currently being developed.
The STAGs monitor and support the implementation of a Science and Technology Roadmap to support the
implementation of the Sendai Framework adopted in 2016.
Building on the work of the previous Science and Technology Committee and G-STAG meetings convened for
the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction and the implementation of the Hyogo Framework
(2005-2015), G-STAG will focus on the expanded scope of hazards covered in the Sendai Framework.
G-STAG will also aim to foster coherence and linkages with other relevant fora and networks related to
climate and disaster risk and the SDGs. The overarching framework for the G-STAG is thereby the resilience
and wellbeing of all people, to ensure nobody is left behind.
Working with members of the science and technology community also resulted in advancing the knowledge
base and understanding for effective disaster risk reduction including through the organization of the

33

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

“Poverty, rapid urbanization, poor land use, ecosystems
decline and other risk factors will amplify the impacts of
climate change. Today on International Day for Disaster
Reduction, we call for them to be addressed in a holistic way.”
Joint Opinion Piece by UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner, UNFCCC Secretariat
Executive Secretary Patricia Espinosa and then Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser

Global Forum on Science and Technology for Disaster Risk Reduction in Tokyo, Japan together with the
Science Council of Japan, the Integrated Research for Disaster Risk (IRDR) and the International Science
Council (ICSU). The meeting gathered 150 representatives from the science and technology community.
Implementation of the S&T Roadmap was discussed and resulted in a commitment to develop two critical
products in support of the Roadmap: 1) periodic synthesis reports on the state of science and technology for
disaster risk reduction; and 2) guidelines for enhanced engagement of S&T in national platforms to ensure a
scientific base for informed decision making and action at the national and local level.

S03

Through the biennium, science and technology and partners, including from academia, provided invaluable
input to UNISDR initiatives, including the expert meeting on Global Risk Assessment Framework, the
development and launch of the Sendai Framework Monitor, capacity building strategy and several Words
into Action documents.

Mobilising the civil society and community
The Sendai Framework enshrines the critical role of stakeholders and recognises an all-of-society approach as
critical to the success of the Framework. To support stakeholders in Sendai Framework implementation,
UNISDR worked throughout the biennium with a wide variety of groups including civil society organisations,
indigenous peoples, women’s groups, children and youth, persons with disabilities, and people from the
scientific and academic communities. In 2017, UNISDR initiated development of a comprehensive Partnership
Strategy to systematise and enhance its engagement with stakeholders and partners. The Strategy includes
the revitalisation and repositioning of existing UNISDR partner groups, as well as the development of new
engagement mechanisms and modalities.
All stakeholder groups actively participated to the Global Platform and influenced its outcomes through their
engagement in preparatory meetings, plenary sessions and working sessions. Statements were also made
by 65 NGOs, Private Sector and Stakeholder groups, including joint statements made on behalf of multiple
stakeholder groups.
Inclusion remained a key focus of UNISDR’s work over the biennium. Among others, women’s groups were
active in raising awareness about the role of women in disaster risk reduction and the higher risk exposure of
women to disasters. A key initiative of UNISDR to support women’s role in disaster risk reduction in 2017 was
to develop a draft roster of women leaders and gender experts in disaster risk reduction. Throughout 2017
it was complemented and enhanced, in particular, with data and contacts from the 2017 Global Platform.
A new global initiative on reducing the disproportionately higher rates of women fatalities in disasters and
enhancing women’s engagement in disaster risk reduction was launched by UNISDR, UN-WOMEN and IFRC
at the Global Platform. UNISDR continued its close engagement with youth, including by collaborating with
representatives from the Youth Major Group in many global and regional meetings and initiatives. Critically,
UNISDR provided legal and policy advice to the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination
Against Women (CEDAW) Draft General Recommendation No. 37 on the Gender-Related Dimensions of
Disaster Risk Reduction in Climate Change.
UNISDR further strengthened partnerships with persons with disabilities, including by providing inputs
in the development of disaster risk reduction strategies, the Sendai Framework Monitor and disaggregated
data collection at the national level. UNISDR also worked closely with the secretariat of the Committee on
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to integrate the key tenets of the Sendai Framework in the guidelines to

34

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

UNISDR ensured that persons with disabilities played a central role in making the 2017 Global Platform fully inclusive, including the use
of robots to enable the remote participation of persons with disabilities.

S03

States parties on periodic reporting to the Committee, and built a strong partnership with the International
Disability Alliance to promote the rights and needs of persons with disabilities in various global and regional
fora and initiatives. In addition, UNISDR ensured that persons with disabilities played a central role in making
the Global Platform and its outcomes to be fully inclusive, including through the innovative use of robotic
telepresence that enabled the remote participation of persons with disabilities in the Global Platform.
As part of its renewed effort to engage stakeholders in a systematic and strategic way, UNISDR also
developed a new Stakeholder Engagement Mechanism, bringing together representatives of all Major
Groups and Other Stakeholders of the HLPF Coordination Mechanism as well as other Sendai stakeholders
and UNISDR partner group representatives. The mechanism will allow for information sharing and lessons
learned from the local and national to the global and regional levels, as well as support advocacy efforts for
a coherent approach to disaster risk reduction, climate change adaptation and sustainable development at
all levels. The draft mechanism was discussed and general agreement achieved at a stakeholder meeting in
February 2018. In addition, UNISDR supported the establishment of the new ‘Sendai Group’ under the HLPF
Coordination Mechanism, led by the Global Network for Disaster Reduction (GNDR), the Huairu Commission
and representatives from the Children and Youth Major Group, to ensure mainstreaming of disaster risk
reduction considerations across this forum.

Promoting and enabling risk-sensitive legislation and budgets
Parliamentarians support the implementation of the Sendai Framework through adopting and amending
legislation, providing oversight and seeking budget allocations for disaster risk reduction. To further catalyse
action, UNISDR worked closely with the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) and engaged with more than
125 parliamentarians across the world to share approaches to strengthen disaster risk governance and
promote resilient public and private investments. In 2017 UNISDR began to develop advocacy materials for
parliamentarians and provide workshops on Sendai implementation. UNISDR also established partnerships
with MP constituencies in addition to IPU, including regional parliaments, national parliaments, MPs in their
personal capacity and organisations such as Women in Parliaments Global Forum and GLOBE Legislators.
At the regional level, UNISDR established a new collaboration through a letter of understanding with
Parlamericas on parliamentarian support for the implementation of the regional strategy and roadmap.17
Following the adoption of the first regional disaster risk reduction and disaster risk management law by
the East African Community in 2016, Members of Parliament from the six-nation East African Community
at the EAC Parliamentarian Forum vowed to step up implementation of the Sendai Framework in their
region. In Europe, UNISDR’s collaboration with the Italian Banking Insurance and Finance Federation (FeBAF)
and members of the European Parliament resulted in the recognition that avoiding the creation of future
disaster risk is essential to the sustainability of EU finance policy. This was subsequently reflected in the
Capital Markets Union work plan on sustainable finance in March 2018. A Japanese Parliamentarian group in
support of UNISDR and disaster risk reduction was launched in 2017.

35

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

1 Enabler

Effective knowledge management, communication
and global advocacy

Result E1.1: Enhanced visibility of disaster risk reduction through UNISDR’s
global advocacy
Result E1.2: Increased reach and public engagement in disaster risk
reduction through communication, media and marketing
Result E1.3: Effective learning and knowledge sharing promoted across
the organization and externally
Result E1.4: Appropriate, sustainable and predictable financial resource
base exists

Enhancing awareness of disaster risk reduction through global events

Enabler 1

In 2016, UNISDR designed the Sendai Seven Campaign: Seven Targets, Seven Years, as the theme for the
13 October International Day for Disaster Reduction to raise awareness annually on one of the seven
targets of the Sendai Framework. Target (a) and (b) were featured respectively in 2016 and 2017 through the
organization of a series of events around the world. In 2017 UNISDR organised events in Armenia, Cambodia,
Gambia, Mauritius, Nepal, Peru, the Philippines, the United States, and partners in many other locations
organised events utilising UNISDR-produced advocacy and outreach materials. On the International Day for
Disaster Reduction, UNISDR set a new social media outreach record of 23.6 million.
UNISDR also regularly publishes press releases, opinion pieces, web news stories and social media posts that
showcase good practices in implementation of the Sendai Framework from all the regions. Over the course of
the biennium this included 287 news releases and web news stories, 52 press releases and 40 opinion pieces.
To bolster the important role of media in promoting disaster risk reduction and how to report beyond
disasters, on their causes and further how to address them, UNISDR prepared an updated version of the
Media Handbook. UNISDR used this handbook to provide training to 60 journalists from Thailand and
Myanmar. UNISDR’s awareness raising efforts also included developing and disseminating five animated
videos aligned with the priorities for action of the Sendai Framework.18
At the 2017 Global Platform, UNISDR organised the United Nations Sasakawa Award for Disaster Reduction
to recognise individuals and institutions active in reducing disaster risk in their communities and advocating
for disaster risk reduction. Due to their efforts to reduce disaster death tolls, individuals and organisations
from Portugal, Iran, Brazil and Fiji were honoured in the ceremony in 2017.

Global advocacy campaigns
UNISDR also supported advocacy efforts related to the new World Tsunami Awareness Day, on 5 November.
A variety of global events aimed to change the misconception that tsunamis are far-off disasters rather than
real hazards that can wipe out progress towards sustainable development and require up-to-date evacuation
plans underpinned by continuous training sessions. The event included panel discussions in Geneva and
New York, technical workshops in Nicaragua and Egypt, a school drill in Chile, two high school summits
in Japan, events at the Asian Ministerial Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Africa Regional
Platform on Disaster Risk Reduction, a film screening in Geneva, a museum conference in Japan and many
other activities worldwide. UNISDR also maintains a website of information about Tsunami risk and World
Tsunami Awareness Day at: www.unisdr.org/2017/tsunamiday.
36

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

Students in Egypt look under the microscope at coral that has been bleached to understand the impact of ecosystem degradation as a
result of climate change and how loss of the coral barrier can increase exposure to various hazards.

Enabler 1

UNISDR supported the Worldwide Initiative for Safe Schools (WISS) advocacy and monitoring efforts,
in close collaboration with the Global Alliance for Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience in the Education
Sector. Over the course of the biennium, UNISDR increased the number of Member States involved in the
initiative and engaged in a policy mapping of integration of school safety in national disaster risk reduction
strategies. In the Caribbean UNISDR supported the development of a regional action plan and training.
In 2016 UNISDR re-launched its Making Cities Resilient Campaign and over the course of the biennium,
1,181 cities joined the Campaign, bringing the total number of cities to 3,858. Through this network, UNISDR
encourages knowledge sharing and disseminates tools to build local resilience. Over the course of the
biennium UNISDR worked with partners through the Campaign Steering Committee and the UNISDR Urban
Planning Advisory Board to align tools and guidance for local resilience-building with the Sendai Framework.
UNISDR also continued to provide leadership and active engagement in the Climate Risk and Early Warning
Systems (CREWS) initiative in partnership with the World Meteorological Organisation and The World Bank.
The CREWS initiative organised a Multi-Hazard Early Warning Conference with more than 450 experts in
Cancun, Mexico, prior to the 2017 Global Platform.

PreventionWeb
In 2017, UNISDR’s knowledge sharing platform, PreventionWeb,19 celebrated its 10th anniversary and now
featuring over 40,000 content entries and a directory of over 8,000 organisations working in disaster risk
reduction. By the end of the year, over 10,000 users were registered and the platform receives a monthly
average of 100,000 visits. As part of a redesign effort, new features were launched including a blog series titled
Disaster Risk Reduction Voices Blog, which shares stories and perspectives from practitioners and academics
on reducing risk and building resilience. A new collection service enables users to curate their own content
and an application programming interface (API) was introduced, which allows third party organisations to
display or repurpose the content of the PreventionWeb knowledge base on their sites. UNISDR produced
good practices, guiding documents, tools, fact sheets, reviews, disaster risk reduction papers and reports,
many of which were launched and discussed at the Global Platform 2017.
37

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

UNISDR Communication and Knowledge Platforms and Websites
Sendai Framework Monitor / https://sendaimonitor.unisdr.org / The UNISDR-managed platform for countries to report
progress in achieving the seven global targets of the Sendai Framework and the common Sustainable Development Goal
indicators. The Platform will allow UNISDR to produce global-level analysis of progress in implementing the Sendai Framework
and countries to review progress against global targets as well as, in a subsequent phase, review progress against nationally
determined indicators.
DesInventar Sendai / https://www.desinventar.net / The UNISDR-managed platform is a conceptual and methodological tool
for the generation of National Disaster Inventories and the construction of databases of damage, losses and in general the effects
of disasters. The platform allows countries and stakeholders to analyze the data for decision-making purposes.
UNISDR Risk Data Platform /https://risk.preventionweb.net / UNISDR-managed platform shares spatial data information
on global risk from natural hazards. It allows users to visualize, download or extract data on past hazardous events, human &
economical hazard exposure and risk from natural hazards. It currently covers earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclonic wind, storm
surges and riverine floods. Data from this platform has been used widely in research and analysis on disaster risk as well as in
UNISDR publications including the 2017 Global Risk Atlas.
PreventionWeb / www.preventionweb.net / UNISDR-managed collaborative knowledge sharing platform on disaster risk
reduction. The site offers a wide range of knowledge products and services to inform and support the work of disaster risk
reduction professionals.

Enabler 1

2017 Global Platform / https://www.unisdr.org/conferences/2017/globalplatform / UNISDR developed and managed its own
website for all its Global Platform meetings and the 2015 World Conference. The website provides a wealth of information in
the form of videos, concept notes, national statements and outcome documents generated by a variety of stakeholders about
the status of Sendai Framework implementation. The UNISDR-managed registration system also allowed UNISDR to gather
disaggregated statistics about Global Platform attendees and interested parties.
International Day for Disaster Reduction / www.unisdr.org/2017/iddr / UNISDR developed and manages a website to serve as
a platform of advocacy and public information resources developed by UNISDR for stakeholders to organize International Day for
Disaster Reduction events globally and to publicize them.
World Tsunami Awareness Day / https://www.unisdr.org/2017/tsunamiday / UNISDR developed and manages a website
to serve as a platform of advocacy and public information resources developed by UNISDR for stakeholders to organize World
Tsunami Awareness Day events globally and to publicize their events.
UNISDR Corporate Website / www.unisdr.org / UNISDR manages its corporate website that shares all UNISDR publications,
news stories, press releases, op-eds and a variety of other information about UNISDR and the disaster risk reduction. The site also
shares UNISDR regional office information (in multiple languages).

Best practices documented, standards, guidance and tools developed
Over the biennium UNISDR continued to facilitate the development of practical how-to guides Words into
Action guidance materials targeted to specific users to support Sendai Framework implementation through
coordinating communities of stakeholders to develop the guidelines. In 2017, UNISDR launched the National
Disaster Risk Assessment (NDRA) guide.20 This was the result of a collaboration with more than 100 leading
experts. It focuses on the Sendai Framework’s first Priority for Action: Understanding Disaster Risk, which
is the basis for all disaster risk reduction measures. The launch of this guideline was accompanied by a
series of Webinars and other training sessions. Eleven additional guides are currently in advanced stages of
development. The following are publicly available for comment: Local disaster risk reduction and resilience
strategies; Man-made and technological hazards; National and local platforms for disaster risk reduction national platforms.21

38

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

To advocate and to disseminate knowledge on build back better in recovery to decision makers and
practitioners, UNISDR coordinated the International Recovery Platform (IRP) and supported the
development of a consultative version of the Words into Action Guide for Build Back Better in Recovery as
well as developed two knowledge products in recovery. By using a series of IRP knowledge products, IRP
contributed to seven capacity development workshops by partners.22 At the 2017 Global Platform many
sessions and consultations were held to support the development of the guidelines. In 2018 work will
continue and the guidelines will continually evolve throughout the lifespan of the Sendai Framework to
remain a relevant global resource for implementation of the Framework.

Efforts to secure financial resources to fully implement our work
Throughout the biennium UNISDR continued efforts to raise appropriate, sustainable and predictable
financial resources to support its work as embodied in the UNISDR Work Programme 2016-2019. To increase
predictability of funding and operational agility UNISDR continued to advocate with its donors for multiyear, un-earmarked contributions. Over the course of the 2016-2017 Biennium UNISDR raised US $57.6
million, out of an initial requirement of US $74.9 million. While not meeting its financial target, UNISDR could
count on significant in-kind contributions, most notably towards the 2017 Global Platform. This allowed
UNISDR to accomplish the majority of its 2016-2017 deliverables; with the exception of those related to the
implementation of the Sendai Monitor due to the negotiations towards the definition of Sendai Indicators
and resulting postponement of the planned launch of the Sendai Monitor. UNISDR also continues to diversify
its support base, with India and Canada becoming new donors over the Biennium.

2017 Donors to UNISDR in Millions USD
European Commission

6.4M

Japan

3.7M

Germany
Sweden

3.0M
2.8M

Republic of Korea

2.3M

Switzerland

2.2M
1.8M

USA
Finland

1.1M

Norway

Earmarked

0.8M

Ireland

0.6M

China

Unearmarked

0.3M

Canada

0.3M

Luxembourg

0.3M

Enabler 1

1.2M

0.2M

0M

1M

2M

3M

4M

5M

6M

7M

UNISDR is 99.2% funded through extra-budgetary resources from voluntary contributions, with
only one post currently funded from the United Nations Regular Budget. Un-earmarked funding is
therefore vital to ensure UNISDR’s ability to implement its Strategic Framework and to achieve its
mandate. The flexibility provided by un-earmarked funding enables UNISDR to focus on the strategic
result areas, affords smooth and effective operational delivery, significantly reduces transaction costs
related to contributions, and allows for forward planning, including the ability to attract and retain
high-quality human resources. Ultimately, un-earmarked funding is a vote of confidence in the ability
of an organization to achieve its vision and programme of work as a whole.

39

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

2016-2017 DONORS TO UNISDR IN USD
1 January 2016 - 31 December 2017
GOVERNMENTS

2016

2017

BIENNIUM TOTAL

50,000

50,000

1,442,125

1,786,935

3,229,061

396,825

233,441

630,266

Argentina1
Australia1
Austria

1

Canada

1

China
Finland
France
Germany

1

India1

266,908

271,661

300,000

600,000

1,133,787

1,067,236

2,201,023

10,966

11,664

22,630

1,511,254

2,978,086

4,489,340

1,000,000

Ireland
Japan

4,753
300,000

1,000,000

543,478

600,962

1,144,440

1,933,333

3,703,428

5,636,761

Kazakhstan

100,000

100,000

200,000

Luxembourg

281,849

266,809

548,658

42,648

42,648

836,575

1,300,758

20,000

20,000

2

New Zealand1
Norway

464,183

2

Philippines
Republic of Korea

2,107,836

2,282 867

4,390,702

Sweden

8,364,725

2,752,705

11,117,430

Switzerland2

1,374,612

2,188,605

3,563,217

10,741

10,741

1,293,183

762, 263

2,055,446

495,050

396,040

891,090

22,757,959

20,657,912

43,415,872

7,055,465

6, 310,539

13,366,004

FAO1

125,820

58,490

184,310

Human Security Trust Fund1

191,665

Turkey

2

1

USA1
USA/WHO3

SUB-TOTAL

Enabler 1

OTHER INSTITUTIONS
European
Commission4

SUB-TOTAL

7,372,949

191,665

6,369,029

13,741,979

PRIVATE SECTOR
AXA1

10,000

10,000

IBM1

7,000

7, 000

10,000

10,000

Kokusai Kogyo Co. Ltd1
Nippon
Foundation1

159,500

159,500

15,000

15,000

110,000

135,000

245,000

142,000

309,500

451,500

30,272,910

27,336,441

57,609,351

RMS1
SM Prime

1

UPS Foundation1

SUB-TOTAL
GRAND TOTAL

5,000

Earmarked contributions
Combination of earmarked and un-earmarked contributions
3
Earmarked contribution from USAID Bureau for Global Health,
Emerging Threats Program through WHO.
1
2

40

5,000

4
Earmarked contributions from two Directorate Generals (DEVCO and
ECHO)
Note: Certified financial statement will be posted at: www.unisdr.org/
who-we-are/donors

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

2 Enabler

Strengthened organizational performance

Result E2.1: Enhanced effectiveness, efficiency and quality of operational
performance, based on appropriate gender-sensitive internal
policies, structure and staffing

Gender mainstreaming and gender parity
The Change Management Process followed UNISDR’s policy for gender parity and particular efforts were
made to reach out to female candidates and to ensure gender parity in interview panels. As a result of
these efforts, UNISDR is now one of seven UN Secretariat entities (out of 48 surveyed) that have achieved
gender parity at senior level positions (D1 and above). Gender focal points were appointed in each UNISDR
Regional Office as well as UNISDR liaison offices in New York and Kobe to support overall mainstreaming of
gender considerations as part of UNISDR’s work. Also in 2017, UNISDR developed and launched its Strategy
on Gender Equality and Parity and UNISDR’s Action Plan for the Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and
Abuse.
Throughout its 2016-2021 Strategic Framework and 2016-2019 Work Programme UNISDR mainstreamed
gender equality and women’s empowerment, underscoring the important role gender plays in all disaster
risk reduction strategies, plans, policies, advocacy campaigns and awareness-raising products. To
further strengthen gender equality and women’s empowerment, UNISDR added a new deliverable and
corresponding indicator to its updated 2018-2019 Work Programme.
UNISDR supported recommendations made by the OIEWG on Indicators to initiate and strengthen the
collection of disaster loss data disaggregated by income, sex, age and disability and to start reporting on
disaggregated data. In particular, UNISDR supported 68 countries in collecting, analysing and managing
disaster data based on sex disaggregation as a component of their national disaster loss databases
and in support of disaster risk reduction policy-making. UNISDR is also actively working with UN system
partners to strengthen the capacity of Member States to disaggregate data.
UNISDR strongly promoted gender parity as a core principle for organising Global and Regional Platforms,
which resulted in a significant improvement in gender parity at the 2017 Global Platform discussions.

Enabler 2

The Special Representative of the Secretary General for Disaster Risk Reduction served as an International
Geneva Gender Champion in 2016 and 2017. During this period UNISDR achieved its three commitments
to the initiative: 1) all staff completed a UN-Women gender training course, 2) all staff meetings included
an agenda on gender-related issues in the workplace; and 3) programmatic aspects of gender were
mainstreamed in the substantive work of UNISDR.
UN-Women recognised UNISDR, in the context of UNISDR’s reporting to the 2016 UN System-wide Action
Plan on Gender Equality and Empowerment of Women (UN-SWAP), for UNISDR’s initiatives to foster a
more inclusive organisational culture, including incorporating gender equality within strategic documents
of the organisation. Several innovative approaches were recognised by UN-Women as worthy of replication
across the United Nations system, such as the inclusion of gender as a standing agenda item for all staff
meetings. UNISDR was also recognised for its creation of a Global Roster of Women Leaders and Gender
Experts in Disaster Risk Reduction as a tool to promote gender parity panels and bolster recruitment
efforts in the pursuit of equal representation of women at decision making levels and beyond.

41

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

UNISDR Change Management
In alignment with the UN Secretary General’s vision for change, UNISDR initiated an Organisational Review
and Change Management Process in 2016 to enhance its focus, business model and to ensure it is fit for
purpose to deliver its mandate for years to come. Commitments to strengthen organisational efficiency,
safeguard financial sustainability and further develop gender-sensitive internal policies and approaches
underpinned the process. The series of actions implemented included strengthening its regional presence,
improving performance management, optimising business processes and reinforcing an organisational
culture based on transparency, trust and accountability for results. Eight change priorities, identified in
consultation with UNISDR staff, guided the process:
1. Organizational set-up; 2. Resourcing (resource mobilisation and cost savings); 3. Internal
Communication; 4.External Communication; 5. People management; 6. Staff development; 7. Business
processes and policies; 8. Partnership engagement strategy.
The eight change priorities were implemented in phases and UNISDR staff were engaged in the delivery
of each priority through internal consultation and coordination mechanisms. The focus in 2016 centred
around the first change priority, developing the organisational structure. The final design of the new
organisational structure streamlined staff functions across all Regional Offices and better aligned staff
skills, levels and geographic locations. Implementation of the new structure began in the second quarter
of 2017, with most of the substantive functions in place by the third quarter of 2017.
During the change process, UNISDR enhanced its human resource capacity with a human resource
expert, which enabled the organisation to finalise the majority of the organisational structural changes
in less than 18 months. The responsible staff member together with the Human Resource team was
recognised through an award by the Secretary-General for her role in the design and implementation of
this process which brought the UN average recruitment time, after the closing of the job posting, down
from an average of 157 days to 60 days.
Concurrently, UNISDR analysed and identified the optimal administrative support structure for its new
organization. The final proposal was approved in the third quarter of 2017 and is under implementation.
All new support staff functions across UNISDR offices are anticipated to be in place by mid-2018.

Enabler 2

The new organizational structure did not reduce the total number of UNISDR staff, but it did reduce
the top heaviness of the organisation and the overall proportion of budget spent on staff costs. In
addition, the new structure strengthened UNISDR’s regional presence. While there are many benefits in
increasing field presence, it is critically important to ensure efficient and effective communication and
coordination between staff across all eleven UNISDR offices worldwide. To overcome this challenge,
UNISDR officially launched Communities of Practices at its All Staff Retreat in September 2017.
Communities of Practice include UNISDR staff based across offices and duty stations who contribute
to the same UNISDR Work Programme deliverables and enable the exchange of information, support
work collaboration and ensure connectivity as a global team. The newly established Communities of
Practices include Risk Assessments, Sendai Framework Monitoring, Resource Mobilisation, External
Communication and Global Operations.
In parallel to developing and implementing the organizational structure, UNISDR developed and is
continuing to develop strategies related to several change priorities to ensure each work stream has a
targeted approach to maximise inputs and avoid duplication. These strategies include a Communication
Strategy, Resource Mobilisation Strategy, Partnership Engagement Strategy, and Staff Capacity
Development Strategy.

“The Change Management Process fits well with the SecretaryGeneral’s reform and prevention agenda, and shows the strong
commitment from UNISDR to efficiency and accountability.”
H.E. Ambassador Antje Leendertse, Permanent Representative of Germany and
Chair of the UNISDR Support Group in 2017-2018 speaking about UNISDR at the 26
September 2017 UNISDR Support Group Meeting.
42

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

CHANGE PROCESS
IN NUMBERS

60

Day average to fill a
post after a vacancy
announcement was
closed
UNISDR 2017 All-Staff Retreat in
Montreux, Switzerland

62%

Faster than the 157day average of the
UN Secretariat

UNISDR made significant progress with regard to its 8th change priority, business
processes and policies. A Business Process Review was initiated in April 2017
and key business process priorities identified: planning, resource mobilisation,
resource allocation, program and project delivery, monitoring and reporting,
programme coordination and staffing. An outcome of the review was an action
plan, which UNISDR began to implement in August 2017 and will continue
throughout 2018. Progress to date includes an updated 2018-2019 Results
Framework; new work planning, cost planning and acquisition processes; a
revitalised Project Management Oversight Committee with a new terms of
reference; quarterly internal reporting and monitoring of the UNISDR Work
Programme improved; discussions on service level agreements with UN Service
providers in the Regional Offices initiated; and steps under way to decentralise
key support functions to Regional Offices in 2018, once support staff recruitments
are completed.

72

New job descriptions
classified in three
months

Enabler 2

With regard to change priority seven, people management, UNISDR made
substantive investments in performance management and the enhancement of
management and supervisory skills of senior managers across the organisation.
Performance Management workshops were completed in five UNISDR offices
(Geneva, Panama, Bangkok, Nairobi and Cairo) and 100% of staff were trained in
performance management.

64

Staff Members
on-board against new
job descriptions
(transferred or
recruited)

35

Posts advertised as
part of the UNISDR
Change Process
43

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

UNISDR Staff, Ms. Chloe Saimpert
Labbe receiving the 2017 Staff Award
for Excellence in the category of
“Implementing Efficiencies” from
Deputy-Secretary-General Ms. Amina
Mohammed on behalf of the SecretaryGeneral;

Organisational planning, monitoring and reporting
In 2016 UNISDR finalised its Strategic Framework 2016-2021, Work Programme 2016-2019 and Results
Framework 2016-2019. The Strategic Framework 2016-2021 is based on the role and mandate the Sendai
Framework and relevant United Nations General Assembly resolutions defined for the organisation.
The Work Programme was reviewed in mid-2017 and modifications and additions were made to several
Deliverables to reflect new strategic adjustments resulting from the change process. These adjustments were
coupled with associated modifications to indicators in the Results Framework and an updated 2018-2019
Results Framework and 2018-2019 Work Programme were finalised. A reprint of the entire Work Programme
2016-2019 is underway and will be released in 2018.
UNISDR strengthened its monitoring processes through improved quarterly reporting to management on
how the organisation was meeting the targets and indicators identified in its Results Framework. In addition,
the UNISDR Programme Management Oversight Committee focuses on ensuring the alignment of funding
proposals with the UNISDR Work Programme, reviewing programming of funding to ensure alignment with
organisational priorities and donor agreements as well as monitoring ongoing projects and the overall
implementation of UNISDR’s Work Programme.

Enterprise Risk management

Enabler 2

During the 2016-2017 biennium, UNISDR committed to develop an internal Risk Management Framework.
Following a careful review of the information and development of an initial action plan, it was decided to
postpone the draft of the Framework until after implementation of several critical action items under the
Business Process Review. A first draft of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework is now anticipated by
the end of 2018.

“Disaster risk reduction is a crucial component of wider
global efforts to make development sustainable and
to confront the challenges posed by climate change.
UNISDR plays a critical role in this process,”
H.E. Ambassador Veronika Bard, Permanent Representative of Sweden to
the United Nations in Geneva, and chair of the UNISDR Support Group from 2016-17.

44

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

UNISDR
Regional Offices

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

AFRICA
Key Hazards: Flash floods, droughts, storms and earthquakes.
Key Risk Drivers: Weak infrastructure, weak governance structures and institutional capacities, population
growth and rapid urbanisation, limited fiscal space and options for financing to invest in disaster risk
reduction, and climate-change.
The UNISDR Regional Office for Africa (ROA) is based in Nairobi, Kenya with a Liaison Office in Addis Ababa.
It is responsible for promoting the implementation of the Sendai Framework for disaster risk reduction in
the 44 countries of Sub-Saharan Africa.23 ROA collaborates with key partners in the region, in particular, the
African Union Commission (AUC) and five Regional Economic Communities (RECs).24 ROA also coordinates
closely with UN entities, notably the UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA).
Over the course of the biennium, UNISDR coordinated multi-stakeholder Africa Regional Platforms, HighLevel Meeting of Ministers responsible for disaster risk reduction and the African Working Group. These
mechanisms together enabled comprehensive disaster risk reduction coordination across the continent
and facilitated implementation of the Sendai Framework. ROA also worked closely with the African
Permanent Missions based in Addis Ababa, which further mobilised political commitment and support for
the implementation of the Sendai Framework in the region. These fora provide opportunities for African
Member States, Intergovernmental Organisations, the United Nations, and multiple stakeholder groups and
development partners to discuss tools, mechanisms and ways to boost the development and implementation
of action plans for disaster risk reduction in Africa. They also addressed key risk drivers on the continent
such as, poverty, public health, climate change, poorly-managed urbanisation, conflict and migration, and
environmental degradation.
In 2016, ROA supported the organisation of a Regional Platform and high-level meeting in Mauritius. Key
outcomes of the Platform were the adoption of the Programme of Action for the Implementation of the
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 and the Mauritius Declaration. The former led
to the development of the seven commitments contained in the Africa Position on Disaster Risk Reduction
that was presented at the 2017 Global Platform. Among others, the seven commitments underlined the
importance of the need to implement the Programme of Action, which provides strategic direction to
integrate disaster risk reduction into regional, national, subnational and local sustainable development
and climate change adaptation strategies. It also emphasises the need to mobilise domestic resources to
increase the allocation of disaster risk reduction in national budgets. It is accompanied by a five-year plan to
accelerate the implementation of the Sendai Framework based on national and regional priorities.
The Regional Platform was complemented by the Africa Working Group Meetings on Disaster Risk
Reduction, co-organised by ROA and the Africa Union Commission in 2016 and 2017. As the primary disaster
risk reduction coordination mechanism in Africa, it was instrumental in finalising the Africa Common Position
for the Global Platform, that was also reflected in its outcome. Sub-regional platforms and meetings
convened by sub-regional organisations with ROA support in East, West, Central and Southern Africa further
ensured implementation of global and continental policies. Each gathering resulted in outcomes such as
sub-regional action plans and work plans, strategies for disaster risk reduction and climate change. These
disaster risk reduction efforts at the sub-regional level are also supported by dedicated sub-regional
disaster risk reduction units. As a result, the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS), and the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), updated their regional disaster risk reduction action
plans. In 2017, the third ECCAS Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction acknowledged the benefits
of building resilience in countries and communities and called for increased multi-stakeholder engagement
to boost implementation of the Sendai Framework in order to reach its targets according to the established
deadlines. UNISDR is also supporting the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), the Southern
African Development Community (SADC) and the East African Community (EAC) in the process of developing
disaster risk reduction plans in line with the Sendai Framework and the Africa Programme of Action.
Strengthening disaster risk reduction governance in Africa is a key area of work for ROA which provided
technical guidance in the development of national action plans and strategies for disaster risk reduction
aligned with the Sendai Framework (Target (e) of the Sendai Framework). Over the course of the biennium,
46

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

“Africa’s vulnerability to hazards is compounded by a
combination of factors, key of which is climate change and
variability. Notwithstanding the burden the continent faces,
progress has been made in reducing disaster risk with regards
to policy and institutional development for disaster risk
reduction. Though the political will to address disaster risks
in Africa has been gaining momentum, resources required to
translate commitments into action remain a challenge.”
Her Excellency Sacko Josefa Leonel Correa, African Union Commissioner
for Rural Economy and Agriculture

this resulted in the adoption of a new strategy aligned with the Sendai Framework in Burundi and a five-year
National Disaster Risk Reduction Action Plan (2016-2020) in Kenya. In Rwanda a new strategy is awaiting
adoption. Uganda is in the process of reviewing a new National Disaster Risk Management Bill. South Sudan
is drafting the National Policy on Disaster Risk. ROA is also helping Tanzania and Uganda in the process of
developing and updating disaster risk reduction strategies.
In 2017, ROA launched an operational programme to perform multi-hazard probabilistic risk profiles,
which consider climate change and include econometric cost-benefit analyses for 16 beneficiary countries.
The programme informs investments in disaster risk reduction, climate change adaptation and sustainable
development made by governments, the private sector and international organisations.
ROA built the disaster loss accounting capacity of 15 countries, bringing the total number in the region to
30. The loss databases support the development of national strategies and the monitoring of the Sendai
Framework. New national disaster loss databases were established in Angola, Botswana, Cameroon, CapeVerde, Equatorial Guinea, Gambia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Namibia, Rwanda, Swaziland,
Zambia and Tanzania. In Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, UNISDR worked closely with World Health
Organisation (WHO) to utilise loss data information in risk assessments and action planning. The action plans
developed have a particular focus on building resilience of health systems, in light of the 2014 Ebola crisis.
Following the landslide in 2017, the Sierra Leone Government acknowledged the critical value of disaster risk
reduction to prevent new occurrences of such disasters.
ROA regularly coordinates with UN partners through the Regional United Nations Development Group
(R-UNDG) mechanism and chairs the regular meetings of the Disaster Risk Reduction Development Partners
group. ROA works to ensure that disaster risk reduction is regularly mainstreamed in United Nations
Development Frameworks (UNDAFs). A key disaster risk reduction achievement in this context is the
development of the Regional UNDG Strategic Framework to Support Resilient Development in Africa. In the
context of the first, second and third Africa Regional Forum on Sustainable Development held in 2015, 2016,
and 2017, ROA provided key messages, background information, as well as regional assessment reports.
The UNISDR inputs were integrated in the content of 16 regional knowledge products developed by ECA.25
ROA also supported the development of a joint UN/AU work plan for a cluster on humanitarian matters and
disaster risk management under the Regional Coordination Mechanism for Africa structure.
To build local resilience, a workshop was held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia with representatives from Dire Dawa
(Ethiopia), Kampala (Uganda), Kisumu (Kenya), Praia (Cabo Verde) and Yaoundé (Cameroon). The capacity
building workshop introduced the process, expectations, tools and expected results for risk assessments to be
conducted primarily in 2018 to develop local action plans. The workshop enabled the sharing of experiences
and lessons across regions and facilitated implementation of the UNISDR Disaster Resilience Scorecard
tool in 50 cities. Utilising the findings of the Scorecard five cities developed local strategies for disaster
risk reduction. These strategies rely on a multi-stakeholder approach to ensure inclusive participation and
effective implementation.
To strengthen advocacy and awareness on disaster risk reduction, ROA provided outreach materials to
interested stakeholders and at least nine countries and two intergovernmental organisations in the region
held events to mark International Day for Disaster Reduction and World Tsunami Awareness Day.26
47

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

Reducing displacement risk in
the Greater Horn of Africa: A baseline
for future work

Women weather a microburst (intense small-scale downdraft
produced by thunderstorms or rain showers) in Ber’aano Woreda
in Somali region of Ethiopia. The need for water supply normally
increases in the dry season, especially during recent droughts.
UNICEF Ethiopia

ROA ensured high-level representation from 40
countries in the region in the 2017 Global Platform
and supported the development of a joint African
statement that was developed for the event. ROA
engaged parliamentarians to scale-up disaster
risk reduction planning and investments through
engagement in parliamentarian networks. An
outcome of this work was the establishment of a
regional parliamentary network in East Africa and
the adoption of a disaster risk reduction act by the
East African Community Parliament.
In addition to governments and parliaments, ROA
worked with a wide range of stakeholders across
Africa. In the area of gender, ROA’s work with the
African Union ensured disaster risk reduction was
included in the Africa Union’s Gender Strategy.
Efforts to ensure the active engagement of youth
groups in disaster risk reduction resulted in
strong youth representation in African disaster
risk reduction forums. Partners in the science
and technology community such as Peri Peri U,
a partnership of 12 African Universities, were
engaged in building disaster risk capacities in the
region. ROA also worked closely with academics
and scientists and began development of an
African Science and Technology Advisory Group
on Disaster Risk Reduction to support Sendai
Framework implementation in the region, which
will be established in 2018.

48

In 2017, UNISDR co-authored with the International Displacement
Monitoring Centre (IDMC) a report entitled, Reducing displacement
risk in the Greater Horn of Africa: A baseline for future work.27 The
publication presents the first baseline for displacement risk
associated with sudden-onset disasters in the countries of the
Greater Horn of Africa with the ultimate aim of reducing future
displacement risk. As sudden-onset natural hazards, primarily
floods, caused more than 600,000 new displacements in 2016 in
the Greater Horn of Africa, this report provides a critical indicator
of the scale and complexity of the phenomenon in the region.
The report provides a baseline for the Greater Horn of Africa Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan
and Uganda, plus Burundi, Rwanda and Tanzania. It gives an
overview of the scale, scope and distribution of risk associated
with sudden onset natural hazards, explains the methodology
used to calculate it, and defines key concepts, data sources and
metrics. It also describes the method used to assess the impact
of displacement associated with drought in the Afar and Shinile
regions of Ethiopia. Two complementary types of analysis were
used to calculate displacement risk for sudden-onset hazards.
Retrospective assessments on direct observation of the impacts
of past disasters, primarily destroyed and flooded housing were
correlated with information from IDMC’s databases and UNISDR’s
loss database tool, DesInventar. To overcome the limited spatial
and temporal coverage of the findings, prospective assessments
drawing principally on models used to inform UNISDR’s Global
Assessment Reports were utilised. When possible, the outputs of
both were combined in a hybrid assessment.
This report built on the technical support and training that
UNISDR has provided to counterparts in Ethiopia, Kenya and
Uganda to enable them to systematically collect data on disasters
and maintain a national loss inventory. The information captured
in these databases contributed key data to produce the analysis
in the report. The report also illustrates the importance of loss
databases in providing critical information to make risk-informed
decisions related to settlement options and other humanitarian
responses to avoid exacerbating existing risks and the creation of
new risks.

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

ARAB STATES
Key Hazards: Flash floods, droughts, storms, sandstorms, earthquakes, tsunamis, landslides and sea-level
rise. Different parts of the Arab region are regularly exposed to geological hazards such as earthquakes and
landslides, in addition to weather related hazards such as floods, extreme temperature events, drought,
sand storms, wildfires and cyclones.
Key Risk Drivers: Poor urban planning, extreme poverty, increasing population density, rapid urbanization,
ecosystem decline, climate change, conflict and security challenges.
The UNISDR Regional Office for Arab States (ROAS) is based in Cairo, Egypt and supports implementation
of the Sendai Framework in 22 countries. ROAS works with a variety of partners in the region, in particular
the League of Arab States and its technical regional bodies, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and
the UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (UNESCWA) to support linkages between disaster
risk reduction and the Sustainable Development Goals. This has resulted in a clear reflection of disaster risk
reduction as a major cross-cutting issue for sustainable development and a critical factor in the resilience of
cities in the 2016 Arab Report on Sustainable Development.
Over the biennium, ROAS provided technical guidance to four countries (Egypt, Jordan, Mauritania, and
Tunisia) to develop or update their national strategies and action plans in alignment with Sendai Framework.
This contributes to the achievement of Target (e) of the Sendai Framework and ensures that the national
strategies address critical elements of the Sendai Framework such as the all-of-society approach and the
expanded scope of hazards. Throughout the biennium ROAS supported the provision of risk information,
including through the development of ten national disaster loss databases, which will be retrofitted in the
coming biennium in Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Palestine, Syrian Arab Republic,
Tunisia, and Yemen.
UNISDR supported the organisation of the Third Arab Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, hosted
by Qatar in Doha in May 2017. An outcome of the Conference was the adoption of the Doha Declaration,
which contributed the critical perspective of the Arab States region on Sendai Framework implementation
to the 2017 Global Platform and the corresponding Chair’s Summary. The Doha Declaration calls for
the development of specific Arab regional tools, methodologies and guidance for risk assessments that
benefit from international and regional best practices for disaster risk reduction and take into account the
specificities and needs of the region. The Conference also agreed on an updated Arab Strategy for Disaster
Risk Reduction and its corresponding Work Programme for 2018-2020, which was updated, consulted and
finalised by Arab countries and the League of Arab States through a series of regional coordination processes
facilitated by UNISDR.
In accordance with the decision of the Council of Arab Ministers Responsible for the Environment, ROAS
revised the Arab Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction to align it with the Sendai Framework and link it to
the sustainable development goals and the Arab Plan of Action on Climate Change. The Council’s decision
also called upon ROAS to coordinate with the General Secretariat of the League of Arab States to organise the
Arab Coordination Mechanism meeting for disaster risk reduction. The meeting took place early 2018 bringing
together governments and key stakeholders from 16 countries to reflect on the progress implementing the
Arab Strategy on Disaster Risk Reduction 2030, and consult with governments and stakeholders on priorities
and preparations related to the 2018 Arab Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction. This is all part
of the work done with the League of Arab States to accelerate the implementation of the Sendai Framework
in the Arab region and the Arab Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction 2030.
The Third Arab Conference brought together more than 120 participants from 15 countries, representing
international organisations, government institutions, NGOs, the UN, civil society, academia and youth
to share good practices, develop partnerships, identify challenges, share information and monitor
implementation of the Sendai Framework in the region. The stakeholders identified the need to strengthen
the role of science and technology in implementing the Sendai Framework in the region. This resulted in a call

49

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

“Thank you UNISDR for offering us such a great opportunity
to be part of the change. The workshops and presentations
were informative, beneficial and eye-opening. The World
Tsunami Awareness Day was a great contribution to
empower the youth and include them in the DRR field.”
Aliaa Wael, youth representative at WTAD event.

to nominate a scientific focal point to represent each country in the Arab Science and Technology Advisory
Group for Disaster Risk Reduction to support the Arab region in implementing the Sendai Framework. The
implementation of the Arab Plan of Action, is set to be finalised and activated through the Arab Coordination
Mechanism for Disaster Risk Reduction at the Africa and Arab States Regional Platforms on Disaster Risk
Reduction scheduled from 9-13 October 2018.
ROAS strengthened disaster risk governance to manage disaster risk in the region through providing
technical guidance to countries to update existing legislations, strategies and plans related to disaster
risk reduction in eight countries (Algeria, Bahrain, Kuwait, Lebanon, Morocco, Qatar, Sudan and the
United Arab Emirates). ROAS also contributed technical expertise to existing multi-stakeholder national
platforms for disaster risk reduction in five countries (Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Qatar and United Arab
Emirates) and to the establishment of multi-stakeholder national platforms for disaster risk reduction
in six countries (Algeria, Lebanon, Kuwait, Mauritania, Morocco and Tunisia).
During the reporting period, ROAS also focused on mainstreaming disaster risk reduction in development
programmes across the UN System, using the Common Country Assessment/UN Development Action
Framework and supported UN Country Teams to integrate disaster risk reduction in their planning
documents. This resulted in the integration of disaster risk reduction in the planning documents of
Lebanon, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Somalia Sudan, United Arab Emirates and Yemen.
As part of the advocacy efforts to promote disaster risk reduction in the Arab Region, the International
Day for Disaster Reduction (IDDR) 2017 on October 13 was celebrated in several countries. The
celebrations included a variety of activities demonstrating disaster risk reduction preparedness
efforts as well as how to mainstream disaster risk reduction across different sectors of development.
For example, Jordan’s civil defence conducted lectures to introduce the Sendai Framework to the
local community and students in all twelve muhafazat (governorates or administrative divisions) in
Jordan. In addition, the United Arab Emirates co-organised with ROAS a consultation on the Global
Capacity Development Strategy for Implementation of the Sendai Framework that brought together
representatives and disaster risk reduction practitioners from more than 15 Arab countries. In Egypt,
ROAS supported an event hosted by the Egyptian Red Crescent and the Information Decision Support
Center at the Cabinet of Ministers, focusing on promoting disaster risk reduction among a vast network
of volunteers and youth. In Sudan, UNISDR provided technical inputs to support the Humanitarian Aid
Commission in the organisation of a national workshop to celebrate the International day focusing on
disaster risk reduction and resilience to climate change. The workshop brought together members from
key ministries and stakeholders from across Sudan to initiate plans to establish a national platform for
disaster risk reduction.
ROAS worked in close coordination with UNESCWA (Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia)
on key regional knowledge products in an effort to highlight coherence between disaster risk reduction,
climate change and sustainable development agendas. The report, Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience
and Sustainable Development in the Arab Region was prepared as a background document for the Arab
Sustainable Development Report and presented the key cross-cutting issues, including governance,
inclusiveness, decentralisation and legislation. ROAS further contributed to the Arab Climate Change
Assessment Report with a technical report, Disaster Loss Data and Linkage to Climate Change Impacts for
the Arab Region. The report was launched at the High Level Conference on Climate Change Assessment
and Adaptation in the Arab Region and provides an overview of the national risk context in relation to
climate change of selected Arab countries, utilising analysis from the UNISDR 2015 Global Assessment
Report on Disaster Risk Reduction (GAR). It further provides a time series historical review analysis of
50

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

Students take a field trip off the coast of Egypt to learn about tsunami risk and costal hazard exposure as part of a UNISDR organized
World Tsunami Awareness Day event.

disaster losses in six Arab countries (Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Palestine, Tunisia and Yemen). The
report also uses a probabilistic methodology to simulate future possible scenarios and overcome the
limitations of estimates derived from historical loss data.
ROAS worked to build local resilience by organising consultations and training workshops to develop
city resilience action plans in nine cities: Ismailia, Egypt Nouakchott, Rosso and Kaedi in Mauritania;
Jendouba, Gabes and Kasserine in Tunisia; Nablus, Palestine; and Khartoum, Sudan. ROAS also promoted
the use of UNISDR’s Disaster Resilience Scorecard translated into both French and Arabic, as it provides
a set of assessments that allow local governments to monitor and review progress and challenges in
the implementation of the Sendai Framework and assess their disaster resilience.28 More than 15 local
governments used it over the course of the biennium in the Arab States to build local resilience. In addition,
more than 20 cities joined the Making Cities Resilient Campaign, bringing to 350 the total number of
participating cities and towns in the Arab region. ROAS also piloted the application of a human security
approach to disaster risk reduction at the local level in Tunisia and Mauritania by providing training and indepth risk assessments, in collaboration with UNDP, to build institutional capacities to cope with a variety of
hazards as well as health, food, environmental and economic insecurities. ROAS work with these cities will
continue in 2018.
Mindful of the critical importance of the youth as a large proportion of the regional demographic, ROAS
actively engaged youth in the region through a variety of interactive initiatives including the establishment
of the Arab Youth Forum for Disaster Risk Reduction and workshops and activities to build awareness and
creative solutions to reduce disaster risk in general and tsunami risk in particular. The engagement of youth
in the region is evident from the active discussions on the UNISDR Arab States Facebook page.
51

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

A S I A - PA C I F I C
Key Hazards: Floods and storms are the most frequent disasters, though earthquakes and tsunamis have
proved particularly deadly in the region. Drought, is another important hazard but often overlooked hazard
in the region.
Key Risk Drivers: Rapid urbanisation and economic growth much of which is unplanned and not riskinformed. Widespread poverty and increasing inequality further intensify vulnerability to hazards and
extreme climate events. The diversity of sub-regions, various trans-boundary risks pose additional challenges
to disaster risk management.
UNISDR’s Regional Office for Asia-Pacific (ROAP) is based in Bangkok, Thailand with a sub-regional office
in Suva (Fiji), a liaison office in Japan and office for North-East Asia in Incheon (Republic of Korea). In close
coordination with partners, UNISDR-ROAP, covers a total of 42 countries and 10 territories.
Disaster risk management in the region was strengthened through ROAP’s technical guidance in the
development of disaster risk management status reports, which form an important baseline for the review
and update of national disaster risk reduction strategies to align with the Sendai Framework and to
support monitoring of the Framework. Status reports were developed in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, the
Philippines, the Republic of Korea, Mongolia Nepal and Pakistan. These reports provide important baseline
information for the review and update of national disaster risk reduction strategies and plans, and for the
Sendai Framework monitoring and reporting. ROAP provided technical support, which resulted in national
strategies aligned with the Sendai Framework in India, Mongolia and Palau and on-going efforts to do so
in Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. Further, in 2017 with UNISDR’s
technical support and policy advocacy Nepal endorsed a Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act 2017,
a prevention-focused piece of legislation that replaces the Natural Calamity Relief Act of 1982 and Mongolia
endorsed a Mid-Term Strategy 2017-2020 to implement the Sendai Framework.
ROAP strengthened relationships with key stakeholders by leveraging the 2016 Asian Ministerial Conference
on Disaster Risk Reduction (AMCDRR), co-organised by UNISDR with the Government of India, in New
Delhi. The event, opened by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was attended by 30 Ministers and 4,400
representatives from 51 countries and generated commitments by governments and partners to accelerate
implementation of the Sendai Framework in Asia. AMCDRR adopted three major outcomes: the New Delhi
Declaration; the Asia Regional Plan for the Implementation of the Sendai Framework, which includes
policy guidance, milestones and a two-year action plan to achieve the Sendai Framework’s seven targets.
Ten Voluntary Stakeholder Action Statements were also issued.
The ISDR Asia Partnership (IAP) serves as a regional forum that brings together Member States,
intergovernmental organisations, UN institutions, international organisations and stakeholder groups to
mobilise technical expertise, enhance advocacy and periodically assess the status of the Sendai Framework
and the Asia Regional Plan, while forming a link between the biennial Ministerial Conferences. It reflects the
Sendai Framework’s call for stronger regional mechanisms to support national and local action. Two sessions
of the IAP Forum were held in 2017. The April IAP Forum assessed the outcomes of the 2016 Asian Ministerial
Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction and developed initial reflections on the AMCDRR 2018, including its
theme: ‘Preventing disaster risk: Protecting sustainable development’. The December IAP Forum assessed
the status of implementation of the Asia Regional Plan on the Implementation of the Sendai Framework and
outlined challenges and recommendations for the AMCDRR 2018 outcomes.
In October 2017, ROAP, the Pacific Community (SPC), and the Secretariat for the Pacific Regional Environment
Programme (SPREP) organised the Joint Pacific Platform for Disaster Risk Management and Climate Change
Roundtable in Suva, Fiji where more than 200 government officials and representatives from across the
development sector considered how to facilitate implementation of the Framework for Resilient Development
in the Pacific: An Integrated Approach to Address Climate Change and Disaster Risk Management.29 The
Joint Pacific Platform prepared the way for the inception of a new regional governance mechanism endorsed
by the region’s leaders. The Pacific Resilience Partnership champions an all-of-society approach to disaster
resilience. UNISDR, along with UNDP, will represent the UN system in the new partnership which will also act
as a steering committee for the new sub-regional platform to be known as the Pacific Resilience Meeting.
52

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

“The science is clear. Climate change and its implications
are real. The Maldives is one of the lowest-lying
nations in the world, and among the most vulnerable
countries, vulnerable to climate risk related disasters.
For the Maldives, working on disaster risk reduction and
becoming more resilient is tied to our very existence,”
Mr. Mohamed Zuhair, Minister of State, Ministry of Defence and National
Security, Maldives

ROAP, as the co-chair (with ESCAP and UNDP) of a Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience Thematic Group,
supported the disaster risk reduction discussion at ESCAP’s 5th Committee session, which resulted in the
identification of disaster risk reduction as a priority area in the regional road map for implementing the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development in Asia and the Pacific, adopted by the Member States of the Economic
and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) at the fourth Asia-Pacific Forum on Sustainable
Development in March 2017.
As a result of ROAP’s technical inputs to the UN Development Framework (UNDAF) drafting process
in Bangladesh, Iran, Mongolia and Thailand, disaster risk reduction was included in the UNDAFs of those
countries. UNISDR’s technical inputs in the Pacific region have resulted in the inclusion of disaster risk
reduction in the UN Pacific Strategy 2018-2022, which is a multi-country sustainable development framework
covering the 14 Pacific countries. ROAP also conducted information sessions on the Sendai Framework for
the UN Country teams (UNCTs) in Indonesia, Viet Nam and, Fiji (covering nine countries). ROAP also supports
the Regional Coordination Mechanism (RCM) as well as the regional UN Development Group (R-UNDG) to
strengthen UN coordination for disaster risk reduction and implementation of the UN Plan of Action on
Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience. UNISDR presented and facilitated dialogues on the UN Plan of Action
in a variety of fora in the region including at meetings with UNCTs in Fiji (nine countries), Maldives and Sri
Lanka to scale-up implementation of the Plan.
To support preparations for monitoring the Sendai Framework and to enable risk-informed decisionmaking, ROAP continued to support the establishment of national disaster loss databases. Bhutan and
Myanmar established theirs with UNISDR’s support in collaboration with UNDP, and existing databases were
updated in Cambodia, Mongolia, Timor-Leste, and the Indian state of Uttarakhand.30 In addition, 14 countries
from the Asia-Pacific region and a range of academic, private sector and regional organisations attended a
global technical workshop in Bonn to launch the Sendai Framework Monitoring Process in December 2017.
The workshop aimed to inform participants about the new Sendai Framework Monitor System, its data entry,
analytical capabilities as well as levels of application (global, regional, national and local) and increase their
knowledge of using the Sendai Monitor and indicators to report on both the Sendai Framework targets and
the SDGs.
ROAP continued to engage parliamentarians, as key decision-makers who can draft and enact policies
and allocate funding for disaster risk reduction measures. This work resulted in the establishment of a
Parliamentary Support Group for UNISDR and its activities, in Japan, with 60 Japanese parliamentarians as
members in 2017.
UNISDR built local resilience through engaging a variety of local governmental officials to enhance
understanding of their disaster risks, capacities and vulnerabilities through the use of UNISDR’s Disaster
Resilience Scorecard. In 2018, UNISDR will continue working with select pilot cities: Dhaka (Bangladesh),
Cilacap (Indonesia), Ulaanbaatar (Mongolia), Mawlamyine (Myanmar) and Kathmandu (Nepal), to conduct
risk assessments develop action plans; to outline priorities; and identify resources, to strengthen disaster
resilience. UNISDR also began assisting Yogyakarta (Indonesia) to develop its resilience action plan through
a multi-stakeholder process and conducted a preliminary gap assessment with key stakeholders in Honiara
(Solomon Islands), which identified how to build resilience in Honiara around planning and coordination,
urban design and critical infrastructure, natural buffers and eco-systems.
To enhance harnessing of research and technology to boost implementation of the Sendai Framework, ROAP
followed up on the First Asian Science and Technology Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction co-organised
53

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

UNISDR Sub-Regional Office for the Pacific
The UNISDR Sub-Regional Office in Suva, Fiji has been a leader in linking disaster risk reduction and
climate change adaptation. UNISDR works in close coordination with the 17 Member States in the
region, UN partners, the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat (PIFS), the Pacific Community (SPC), and
Secretariat for the Pacific Regional Environment Programme (SPREP), and to further this agenda.
Notably in 2017, UNISDR co-organized the Joint Pacific Platform for Disaster Risk Management and
Climate Change Roundtable. More than 200 government officials and representatives from across the
development sector considered how to accelerate implementation of the Framework for Resilient
Development in the Pacific: An Integrated Approach to Address Climate Change and Disaster Risk
Management. UNISDR played a key role in the technical working group that developed this framework,
which aims to strengthen the resilience of Pacific Island communities. to the impacts of both slow
and sudden-onset natural hazards. The Sub-Regional Office also supports the maintenance of a joint
disaster loss database of 15 countries in the region. In addition, it conducted trainings on integrating
disaster risk reduction into business continuity planning with a focus on the primary industry in the
region, tourism. UNISDR actively contributes to the two multi-country UN teams in the region (based
out of Fiji and Samoa) and is developing stronger links to the UN country team in Papua New Guinea.
UNISDR also works on advocacy and outreach in the region including organising International Day
for Disaster Reduction and World Tsunami Awareness Day events over the course of the biennium.

with the Government of Thailand, in Bangkok, in 2016 and establish the Asian Science, Technology and
Academia Advisory Group (ASTAAG). The outcome of the conference was a Science and Technology Roadmap
and the active engagement of the community has led to preparations for a follow-up conference to be held in
Beijing in 2018.
To strengthen the coordinated management of disaster risk and resilient health systems, ROAP co-organised
a conference in 2016 with WHO in Bangkok and agreed upon the Bangkok Principles, which form an
important contribution to international policy guidance and help to put health at the heart of disaster risk
management. ROAP also strengthened risk understanding and management in schools, which resulted in
Pacific countries joining World Initiative on Safe Schools (WISS).31
ROAP improved private sector risk management through the launch of national ARISE forums, the
development and provision of toolkits, including on risk assessments and 12 Steps for Making Your Business
Disaster Proof. More than 37 workshops were held with small and medium-sized businesses in Samoa and
the Solomon Islands. In Mindanao (Philippines) UNISDR led a workshop with 45 business and government
representatives to test and revise the tools for adaptation and use in the local context. In Mongolia and
Thailand UNISDR trained a total of 75 companies on business continuity management and climate change
adaptation principles. In Japan, ARISE Japan’s annual symposium was held in March 2017 with over 100
representatives from Japan’s business world gathered to discuss how businesses meet the challenge of
extreme weather events.
Over the course of the biennium, ROAP catalysed disaster risk reduction advocacy through direct and
indirect organisation of many events related to the International Day for Disaster Reduction and the World
Tsunami Awareness Day. International Day for Disaster Reduction celebrations were held in 10 countries
(Cambodia, Fiji, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, the Philippines, Solomon Islands, Thailand and Viet Nam)
and World Tsunami Awareness Day events raised awareness among youth groups in the Pacific and Japan.
In addition, the first World Tsunami Museum Conference was held in Ishigaki Island, Okinawa Prefecture,
Japan. UNISDR also worked with Miyamoto Relief32 to undertake an assessment of 40 schools in Pokkahra
District, Nepal, a region affected by the 2015 earthquake. The outcome of the assessment was shared with
the Government of Nepal to guide the Ministry of Education in making financial allocations to secure safe
schools in Nepal.

54

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

A submerged petrol station
after an embankment ruptured
in Bangkok, Thailand. Photo/
Christophe Archambault
55

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

AMERICAS
Key Hazards: Earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, tsunamis, landslides, volcanoes, forest fires and droughts El
Nino and La Niña.
Key Risk Drivers: Environmental degradation, poor land-use management, un-planned urbanisation,
climate change.
UNISDR’s Regional Office for the Americas (ROAM) is based in Panama City, Panama and works in close
coordination with a wide variety of stakeholders across the 50 countries it supports.
In 2017, ROAM, co-organised the Fifth Regional Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction in the Americas
hosted by Canada in Montreal. At the Platform, Member States agreed on a Regional Action Plan for the
Implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 in the Americas and the
Montreal Declaration. Grounded in a all-of-society approach, the multi-stakeholder plan of action offers a
suite of practical and action-oriented regional initiatives based on the four Sendai Framework priorities for
action. The Regional Platform built on the Ministerial Meetings organised by ROAM in Montreal (Canada) and
Asunción (Paraguay), notably, the Asunción Declaration was a critical element of the Regional Platform. In
2017, ROAM began preparations for the 2018 Regional Platform to be hosted in Cartagena, Colombia, where
stakeholders will take stock of implementation of the Framework to date and identify mechanisms to scaleup implementation.
At the sub-regional level, ROAM supported the alignment of sub-regional frameworks with the priorities
and global targets of the Sendai Framework, as well as with the Sustainable Development Goals. The subregional strategies include the Comprehensive Disaster Management Strategy for the Caribbean, the Central
American Policy on Comprehensive Risk Management and the Union of South American Nations. These
strategies not only support scaling-up implementation of the Sendai Framework by identifying concrete
actions for the relevant stakeholders to undertake, but also support building coherence between the Sendai
Framework and Sustainable Development Goals.
ROAM also supported, together with FAO, the development of a Regional Strategy for Disaster Risk
Management in the Agriculture Sector and Food and Nutrition Security in Latin America and the Caribbean
(2018 - 2030). The strategy was approved at the ministerial level by the Community of Latin American and
Caribbean State (CELAC) and will enable improved disaster risk management in the agriculture sector for
food and nutritional security. This process responded to a request by CELAC on behalf of its member States’
expressed on the need to increase efforts on disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation in the
agriculture sector.33
To support achievement of Target (e) of the Sendai Framework, development of national disaster risk
reduction plans and strategies, ROAM provided technical support to Argentina and Honduras to align
national disaster risk reduction plans with the Sendai Framework. ROAM also agreed upon a timeline for
National Plan developments with Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, British Virgin Islands, Guatemala, Guyana,
Jamaica, Nicaragua, Paraguay and Saint Lucia.
In 2017, 14 of the region’s countries participated in the Sendai Framework Monitoring Readiness Review.
This helped the countries understand their reporting challenges and allowed the countries to prepare to use
the Sendai Framework Monitoring system when launched in 2018. ROAM supported preparations for Sendai
Framework monitoring and supported six countries in defining national disaster risk reduction plans and
indicators (Argentina, Paraguay, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua). ROAM continued to support
countries to update their loss databases. As of 2016, 19 countries had updated disaster loss databases, key
tools in the development of national strategies and for reporting on the Sendai Framework indicators.
ROAM has developed a close working relationship with most intergovernmental organisations in the
Americas region dealing with disaster risk reduction issues, namely the Organization of American States (OAS),
Centre for Coordination of Disaster Prevention in Central America (CEPREDENAC), Association of Caribbean
States (ACS), Caribbean Disaster and Emergency Management Agency (CDEMA), Union of South American
Nations (UNASUR), Andean Community of Nations (CAN), and the Ministerial Meeting for the Reduction of
56

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

“Natural hazards recognize no national boundaries
or frontiers or orders of the government and
they hit vulnerable populations hardest”
Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto speaking at the opening
ceremony of the 2017 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction

Socio-natural Disasters (REMAGIR) of the Common Southern Market of South America (MERCOSUR). ROAM
also coordinates closely with the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), in
particular the Conference of Statistics of the Americas, and also promoted the creation of a working group
for disaster risk reduction in the area of Urban Risk.34
To support implementation of the United Nations Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience,
UNISDR and UNDP chaired the Inter-Agency Working Group of the United Nations for the Plan of Action
on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience with 16 other UN entities and ensured that the development of
disaster risk reduction assessments, updated disaster loss databases and resilience considerations were
integrated into the UN Development Assistance Frameworks of three countries. In addition, the UN
Resident Coordinators (RC) through UNDG Group for Latin America and the Caribbean (UNDG LAC) in Bolivia,
Dominican Republic and Honduras agreed to be pilot countries for support in implementation of UN Plan of
Action. UNISDR prepared jointly with UNDG LAC an inter-agency document on sustainable development,
Actions in LAC for overcoming poverty-leaving no one behind, which served as an input document for the
Intergovernmental Forum on Sustainable Development, Subsidiary of ECLAC, prior to the United Nations
High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF).
ROAM provided support and tools to the growing network of 1,889 cities that joined the Making Cities
Resilient Campaign in the region with the purpose to strengthen local resilience. ROAM assisted eight
municipalities in finalising their local disaster risk reduction action plans and applied campaign tools in 54
cities in 2017 and is providing additional technical support to five more cities. In addition, 11 new advocates
and one new champion agreed to join the existing 9 advocates and two champions to support the Campaign
in the region.
Strengthened knowledge and understanding of private sector entities on their role in disaster risk
management was achieved through, support and advice, as appropriate, to develop national ARISE chapters
in Canada, Colombia, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Peru and the
United States. In addition, ROAM is supporting the development of new chapters in Argentina, Mexico and
the Caribbean region.
In addition, ROAM developed partnerships with other stakeholders to catalyse action in the region. ROAM
worked in close collaboration with International and Regional Financial Institutions to incentivise riskinformed investments. In particular, as a result of ROAM developing a partnership with the Development Bank
of Latin America (CAF), CAF will chair the Resilient Investment sessions in the context of the 2018 Regional
Platform. Partnerships were also strengthened with academic organizations and networks over the course of
the biennium, notably, a Regional Science and Technology Advisory Group was established. A partnership
was established with ParlAmericas to support a parliamentarian dialogue and elaborate a parliamentarian
protocol for disaster risk reduction. ROAM also supported the creation of a regional network for Inclusive
Disaster Risk Management and Disabilities in Latin America and continues to support and strengthen its
development as an observing member of the network.
ROAM engaged 12 countries in the region, all of which expressed interest in becoming members of the
Worldwide Initiative on Safe Schools (WISS) to enhance awareness and understanding disaster of risk
and efforts that can be undertaken to improve the safety of schools. UNISDR supported the Caribbean Safe
School Initiative and its declaration and action plan, organised a plenary session on school safety during the
2017 Caribbean Disaster Management conference in the Bahamas and supported a training organized on
WISS and CDEMA’s Model Safe School Programme (MSSP) in six countries.35 Ministers of Education confirmed
their political commitment by signing the Antigua and Barbuda Declaration on school safety and agree on
priorities for the Caribbean Road Map.

57

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

EUROPE
Key Hazards: Droughts, extreme temperatures, forest fires, earthquakes and floods.
Key Risk Drivers: Scale and complexity of social and economic assets in cities make them highly sensitive to
the impacts of climate change.
UNISDR’s Regional Office for Europe (ROE) is based in Brussels, Belgium and works with 56 countries. In 2017,
as part of the change management process, countries in the Central Asia and Caucasus sub-region came under
the remit of ROE. ROE currently has a project presence in Almaty, Kazakhstan.36
Over the course of the biennium, UNISDR co-organised a European Forum for Disaster Risk Reduction in
Finland and in 2017 a European Open Forum on Disaster Risk Reduction in Turkey. The European Forum for
Disaster Risk Reduction (EFDRR) at its 7th Annual Meeting in Helsinki, Finland (6-8 October 2016) adopted the
EFDRR Road Map 2016-2020 in support of the implementation of the Sendai Framework. The EFDRR Road
Map was endorsed by European ministers at the Council of Europe (EUR-OPA) ministerial session in Portugal,
October 2016 and a four-year work plan to implement the Sendai Framework in the region. Following this,
in 2017, from 26-28 March, the EFDRR hosted its first Open Forum in Istanbul, Turkey, that brought together
530 participants including national and local level government representatives, UN entities, European Union,
parliamentarians, intergovernmental organizations, scientific and academic institutions, private sector, NGOs,
persons with disabilities, migrants, community-based organizations and others. The outcomes of the EFDRR
Open Forum included the High Level Communique; Recommendations of the Europe Region for the 2017
Global Platform; and the Chair’s Summary. Preparations also began for the 2018 EFDRR to be hosted by Italy.
Much of ROE’s impact is achieved through the dedication and active engagement of the nation government
counterparts. ROE also works closely with the European Union (EU) institutions, including the European Commission, European Parliament, European Council and the European Committee of the Regions. Collaboration
with the EU is particularly important in scaling-up Sendai Framework implementation because EU decisions
are agreed and implemented by 28 countries in the region with many neighbouring countries following the
agreements. ROE coordinates closely with UN entities operating in the region, in particular, the UN Economic
Commission for Europe (UNECE).
UNISDR’s policy work with the European Union has resulted in a strong emphasis on resilience and disaster
risk reduction in key policy documents. This includes the European Commission Action Plan, A disaster
risk-informed approach to all EU policies, and the European Committee of the Regions’ joint action plan
with UNISDR on implementation of the Sendai Framework at local and regional levels in 2016-2020, which
sets priorities for Sendai Framework implementation. Other notable documents include the EU Joint
Communication on Resilience (European Commission and External Action Service), which was endorsed in
June 2017 and notes the Sendai Framework and disaster risk reduction; EU Council conclusions at Foreign
Affairs Council (13/11/2017), which give a strong mandate to the aforementioned Resilience Communication;
the European Committee of the Regions adopted an opinion on the EU Action Plan on the Sendai Framework;
EC Communication on Reinforcing Integrated Supervision to Strengthen Capital Market Union and
Financial Integration in a Changing Environment, which makes a direct reference to Sendai Framework
in their action plan (September 2017). EU Council conclusions (October 2017) by Environment Ministers on
COP23 includes reference to coherence with the Sendai Framework. ROE also contributed to the European
Environment Agency report on disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation (October 2017) and
the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO), which, in collaboration with Member States and international
partners, has been developing an ECO Regional Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. 37
In 2016, UNISDR organised the Central Asia and South Caucasus Regional Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction, hosted by the Government of Tajikistan in Dushanbe, the first such platform in that region. The
Dushanbe Declaration, a collective political commitment supported by a Regional Plan of Action, was a key
outcome of the event. In 2017, ROE began organisation of this region’s 2018 Regional Platform on Disaster Risk
Reduction to be hosted by the government of Armenia in Yerevan.
To support strengthening of monitoring and analysis of Sendai Framework implementation, a
regional baseline was developed and shared at the EFDRR session in Finland. Italy was engaged on the review
58

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

Severe floods in Bosnia
and Herzegovina
Photo credit: EC/ECHO
59

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

of indicators of the Sendai Framework as a pilot country (see Readiness Review Result 1.1). Three disaster
risk reduction peer reviews were undertaken in Estonia, Malta and Poland on the areas of risk management
capabilities and risk assessments.  UNISDR initiated the Peer Review process with the EC and as part of the
Peer Review Advisory Board, UNISDR attended the preparatory meetings for the countries reviewed and took
part in the Estonia Peer Review. A number of countries participated in the Peer Reviews as follows: for Estonia:
Finland, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Lithuania and Ireland; for Malta: Cyprus, Jordan, the
Netherlands and Portugal; for Poland: Bulgaria, Malta, Sweden and Turkey. The European Commission, in
collaboration with UNISDR,  reviewed the European methodology on gathering disaster losses to include
the new Sendai Framework elements. Belarus, Georgia and Moldova developed disaster loss databases,
following training, guidance and systems support from ROE.
Over the course of the biennium, 31 countries completed risk assessments to inform disaster risk reduction
strategies. The EU Civil Protection Mechanism Legislation played an important role in achieving this because
risk assessments became mandatory in EU Member States when the Mechanism was revised in 2013. ROE
provided support to the European Commission at the time on this development and continues to collaborate
now as the Mechanism is updated. Risk assessments provide key information for the development of
national strategies for disaster risk reduction, Target (e) of the Sendai Framework. Twenty-eight countries in
the region have integrated disaster risk reduction into national strategies. Most recently, Armenia, Bulgaria,
and Georgia, with technical inputs from UNISDR, developed national strategies for disaster risk reduction
and UNISDR continues to provide guidance to other countries in the process of developing one, including
Italy, Portugal, Slovenia and Turkey.
Significant demand continued throughout the biennium to apply UNISDR tools for building local resilience
and to support the development and testing of the new tools. Six cities in Europe shared and published their
experience witht local level indicators aligned with the Sendai Framework, which was useful for UNISDR’s
development of the Sendai Framework Monitoring system. UNISDR co-hosted with the City of Florence
the first high-level international event on local level Sendai Framework implementation and the outcome
document, the Florence Way Forward, highlighted local level priorities in implementing the Sendai
Framework. In Central Asia, support continued on the Sendai Framework implementation at the local level in
collaboration with the European Commission. Municipality staff in three cities, Ust- Kamenagorsk and Ridder
in Kazakhstan and Karakol in Kyrgyzstan were supported to undertake Hazard Risk Vulnerability assessments
for city development plans, which were endorsed by the cities’ Mayors. ROE, in collaboration with the
European Commission, co-organised a city-to-city peer review of Viggiano (Italy) with Lisbon (Portugal) and
the Greater Manchester (UK), which paved the way towards the development of a peer review module that
can be used by other local authorities. In total, 733 cities and towns have joined the UNISDR Making Cities
Resilient Campaign in the region to date.
ROE coordination with UN entities, has primarily centred around mainstreaming disaster risk reduction
in diverse UN processes including UNECE methodologies for country profiles on Housing and Land Use
Planning and in identifying a way forward for UNECE and OECD to support prevention, preparedness and
response relating to industrial and chemical accidents. ROE also worked to ensure coherence with the
Sendai Framework in the Habitat III Europe Region Consultation and Declaration, the EC Climate Change
Plan of Action, the Committee of the Region’s position on SDGs, and the adoption of the EU Communication on
SDGs/Agenda 2030. ROE contributed to the development of seven UN Development Action Frameworks in
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Moldova and Ukraine. ROE led workshops related to the
UN Plan of Action, with a particular focus on UN coordination in the Central Asia Caucasus region.
ROE engaged a variety of stakeholders to raise awareness and contribute to providing disaster risk
reduction expertise to the global community. ROE ensured active engagement of European Disaster Risk
Reduction Champions such as former President of Finland, Tarja Halonen, and former European Commission
Vice President, Kristalina Georgieva in key disaster risk reduction events. In 2016 and 2017, ROE ensured
that disaster risk reduction was a key element at the Rome Investment Forum, an international private
sector event featuring European ministers of finance and environment, which focuses on the importance
of business resilience for sustainable development. ROE also organised a variety of International Day for
Disaster Reduction events to raise awareness about disaster risk reduction including co-organising an event
on 13 October 2017 with the participation of the SRSG for Disaster Risk Reduction, the EU Commissioner for
Regional Policy, and the European Committee of the Regions.

60

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

Endnotes
1.	

The Sendai Framework Monitor went live on 1st March 2018 with the agreed Global Indicators with the extended
system which will include the nationally determined indicators (custom indicators) of the Monitor to be available in
June 2018.

2.	

As called upon by Member States through General Assembly Resolution (A/RES/71/276): https://www.unisdr.org/
files/54970_techguidancefdigitalhr.pdf

3.	

See the Global Risk Atlas and the augmented reality icons at: https://www.preventionweb.net/english/hyogo/gar/
atlas/

4.	

The 2017 Global Platform Leaders Forum was co-chaired by the H.E. Mr. Enrique Peña Nieto, the President of Mexico
and Ms. Amina Mohammed, the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations. Participants of the Leaders Forum
included presidents, heads of state, vice presidents, and a deputy prime minister. For more on Leader’s Forum:
https://www.unisdr.org/we/inform/publications/55465

5.	

Global Platform Proceedings: https://www.unisdr.org/we/inform/publications/55465

6.	

For list of all indicators see: https://www.preventionweb.net/files/50683_oiewgreportenglish.pdf

7.	

Note data to report on Sendai Framework target (e), national strategies, is only captured in the Sendai Framework
Monitoring system as it does not pertain to disaster losses.

8.	

For more about the Making Cities Resilient Campaign and its Steering Committee see: https://www.unisdr.org/
campaign/resilientcities/Home/steering

9.	

The Disaster Resilient Scorecard for Cities (version 2.0) was developed with the support of European Commission,
IBM, AECOM and other partners and cities participating in the Making Cities Resilient Campaign. http://www.unisdr.
org/campaign/resilientcities/home/toolkitblkitem/?id=4

10.	 Quick Risk Estimate tool: http://www.unisdr.org/campaign/resilientcities/home/toolkitblkitem/?id=3
11.	 How to make cities more resilient: a handbook for local government leaders: https://www.unisdr.org/we/inform/
publications/54256
12.	 https://www.unisdr.org/campaign/resilientcities/assets/documents/guidelines/LG%20Powers%20for%20DRR_20
13.	 The UN Senior Leadership Group on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience, convened by the Special Representative
of the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction, is comprised of senior leaders from the UN entities provides
strategic direction to the implementation of the UN Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience: Towards
a Risk-informed and Integrated Approach to Sustainable Development.
14.	 Zero Draft of the Global Capacity Development Strategy: https://www.unisdr.org/files/56922_
sfdrrcdstrategyzerodraft20180223.pdf
15.	 https://www.unisdr.org/we/inform/events/56922 Link to OECD Policy Marker for Disaster Risk Reduction: http://
www.oecd.org/officialdocuments/publicdisplaydocumentpdf/?cote=DCD/DAC/STAT(2017)26&docLanguage=En
16.	 Towards disaster-risk sensitive investments The Disaster Risk-Integrated Operational Risk Model: https://www.
preventionweb.net/files/51068_eiutowardsdisasterrisksensitiveinve.pdf
17.	 ParlAmericas is an independent network composed of national legislatures from 35 states in North, Central, and
South America, and the Caribbean, which engages to develop inter-parliamentary dialogue on relevant hemispheric
issues.
18.	

Link to animated videos about the Sendai Framework Targets: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zrqmwZMOI-k

19.	

www.preventionweb.net

20.	

Link to National Disaster Risk Assessment Words into Action: https://www.unisdr.org/we/inform/publications/52828

21.	 Link to Works Into Action Guidelines available for public comment: https://www.preventionweb.net/tags/pw:wiadraft/Words%20into%20Action%20Guidelines#hits=20&sortby=default&view=pw&filter=usertags%3A%5E%22pw%3
Awia-draft%22%24
22.	 In 2018, a review of IRP activities, under the current IRP Strategic Framework 2016-2020, will be undertaken.

61

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

23.	 African Member States of the League of Arab States fall under the Regional Office of Arab States, Cairo. However, for
continental forums led by AUC, e.g. Africa Regional Platform, High Level Meetings, and Africa Working Group, African
Member States are invited.
24.	 Regional Economic Communities are: The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), The East African
Community (EAC), The Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), The Southern African Development
Community (SADC), The Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS)
25.	 Key messages of the third session of the Africa Regional Forum on Sustainable Development include elements
recommended by UNISDR, such as “Investing in the capacities of people, communities, economies, cities and
countries to prevent, reduce and manage risks arising from climate change and natural hazards, conflict, economic,
political and social instabilities, is critical to building resilience and achieving broad-based sustainable development.”
26.	 Cameroon, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Mauritius, Nigeria, South Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, as well as ECCAS and
AUC
27.	 Reducing displacement risk in the Greater Horn of Africa: http://www.internal-displacement.org/assets/
publications/2017/201709-af-greater-horn-of-africa-drr.pdf
28.	 The Scorecard provides a set of assessments that allow local governments to monitor and review progress and
challenges in the implementation of the Sendai Framework, and assess their disaster resilience. It is structured
around UNISDR’s Ten Essentials for Making Cities Resilient.
29.	 The outcome statement recommends that countries and territories and partners take the necessary steps to improve
disaggregated data collection and analysis of risk factors; explore the development of a Pacific advisory group on
science and technology; further develop a multi-hazard early warning system in the region; and document and apply
traditional and local disaster risk reduction knowledge systems.
30.	 A hilly state in northern India highly prone to earthquakes, landslides, avalanches, floods and other hydro
meteorological hazards.
31.	 Fiji, Samoa and Vanuatu
32.	 Miyamoto Relief is a non-profit that provides engineering expertise to those in need.
33.	 The Regional Strategy is available through the following link: http://eird.org/americas/docs/informe-estrategia-regsector-acgricola-2018-eng.pdf
34.	 The Urban Risk working group aligns its effort with the Sustainable Development Goals, New Urban Agenda and
Sendai Framework.
35.	 ParlAmericas is an independent network composed of national legislatures from 35 states in North, Central, and
South America, and the Caribbean, which engages to develop inter-parliamentary dialogue on relevant hemispheric
issues.
36.	 Antigua and Barbuda, Guyana, Montserrat, Saint Lucia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Turks and Caicos. In total 144
professionals were trained and the risk of 17 schools were assessed based on the MSSP methodology.
37.	 The 55 countries include the areas of Eastern Europe, Northern Europe, Southern Europe, Western Europe, South
Caucasus, Central Asia, Russia, Israel and Turkey.
38.	 http://www.eco.int/general_content/85976-ECO-and-Disaster-Risk-Reduction.html?t=General-content

62

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

64

S01

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

