AFGHANISTAN ALBANIA ANGOLA ARGENTINA ARMENIA AZERBAIJAN
BANGLADESH BELARUS BELIZE BENIN BHUTAN BOLIVIA BOSNIA AND
HERZEGOVINA BOTSWANA BRAZIL BULGARIA BURKINA FASO BURUNDI CABO
VERDE CAMBODIA CAMEROON CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC CHAD CHILE
CHINA COLOMBIA COMOROS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO REPUBLIC OF
CONGO COSTA RICA CÔTE D’IVOIRE CROATIA DJIBOUTI DOMINICA DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC ECUADOR ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT EL SALVADOR ESWATINI
ETHIOPIA FIJI GABON THE GAMBIA GEORGIA GHANA GRENADA GUATEMALA
GUINEA GUINEA-BISSAU GUYANA HAITI HONDURAS INDIA INDONESIA IRAQ
JAMAICA JORDAN KAZAKHSTAN KENYA KIRIBATI KOSOVO KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC LEBANON LESOTHO LIBERIA
MADAGASCAR MALAWI MALDIVES MALI MARSHALL ISLANDS MAURITANIA
MEXICO FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA MOLDOVA MONGOLIA
MONTENEGRO MOROCCO MOZAMBIQUE MYANMAR NEPAL NICARAGUA
NIGER NIGERIA NORTH MACEDONIA PAKISTAN PANAMA PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY PERU PHILIPPINES POLAND ROMANIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RWANDA SAMOA SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE SENEGAL SERBIA SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE SOLOMON ISLANDS SOMALIA SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH SUDAN SRI
LANKA ST. LUCIA ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES SURINAME TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA TIMOR-LESTE TOGO TONGA TUNISIA TURKEY TUVALU UGANDA
UKRAINE URUGUAY UZBEKISTAN VANUATU VIETNAM REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ZAMBIA ZIMBABWE AFGHANISTAN ALBANIA ANGOLA ARGENTINA ARMENIA
AZERBAIJAN BANGLADESH BELARUS BELIZE BENIN BHUTAN BOLIVIA BOSNIA
AND HERZEGOVINA BOTSWANA BRAZIL BULGARIA
BURKINA
FASO
BURUNDI
Annual
Report
2020
CABO VERDE CAMBODIA CAMEROON CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC CHAD
CHILE CHINA COLOMBIA COMOROS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
REPUBLIC OF CONGO COSTA RICA CÔTE D’IVOIRE CROATIA DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA DOMINICAN REPUBLIC ECUADOR ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT EL
SALVADOR ESWATINI ETHIOPIA FIJI GABON THE GAMBIA GEORGIA GHANA
GRENADA GUATEMALA GUINEA GUINEA-BISSAU GUYANA HAITI HONDURAS
INDIA INDONESIA IRAQ JAMAICA JORDAN KAZAKHSTAN KENYA KIRIBATI
KOSOVO KYRGYZ REPUBLIC LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC LEBANON
LESOTHO LIBERIA MADAGASCAR MALAWI MALDIVES MALI MARSHALL
ISLANDS MAURITANIA MEXICO FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA MOLDOVA
MONGOLIA MONTENEGRO MOROCCO MOZAMBIQUE MYANMAR NEPAL
NICARAGUA NIGER NIGERIA NORTH MACEDONIA PAKISTAN PANAMA PAPUA
NEW GUINEA PARAGUAY PERU PHILIPPINES POLAND ROMANIA RUSSIAN
FEDERATION RWANDA SAMOA SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE SENEGAL SERBIA
SEYCHELLES SIERRA LEONE SOLOMON ISLANDS SOMALIA SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH SUDAN SRI LANKA ST. LUCIA ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
SURINAME TAJIKISTAN TANZANIA TIMOR-LESTE TOGO TONGA TUNISIA TURKEY
TUVALU UGANDA UKRAINE URUGUAY UZBEKISTAN VANUATU VIETNAM
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN ZAMBIA ZIMBABWE

Supporting
Countries in
Unprecedented
Times

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Contents
	 3	Introduction
	 4 	 Message from the President
	 6	 Message from the Executive Directors
	9	 Responding to the COVID-19 Pandemic
	17	Regional Perspectives
	43	 Applying Experience and Insights for Good Country Outcomes
	65 	 Advancing Knowledge, Research, and Data for Development
	67	 Supporting Countries’ Development through Capital Markets
	69 	 Partnering to Boost Development Impact
	 71	 Improving Operations for Country Outcomes
	 75	 Our Values and Our Staff
	79	 Guiding the Institution
	 81	 Ensuring Oversight and Accountability of Our Operations
	85	 Deploying Resources Strategically
	98	 Committed to Results
KEY TABLES
	 91	 IBRD Key Financial Indicators, Fiscal 2016–20
	95	 IDA Key Financial Indicators, Fiscal 2016–20
This annual report, which covers the period from July 1, 2019, to June 30, 2020,
has been prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development
Association (IDA)—collectively known as the World Bank—in accordance with the
respective bylaws of the two institutions. David Malpass, President of the World
Bank Group and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors, has submitted
this report, together with the accompanying administrative budgets and audited
financial statements, to the Board of Governors.
Annual reports for the other World Bank Group institutions—the International
Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA),
and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)—are
published separately.
Throughout the report, the term World Bank and the abbreviated Bank refer only
to IBRD and IDA; the term World Bank Group and the abbreviated Bank Group
refer to the five institutions. All dollar amounts used in this report are current U.S.
dollars unless otherwise specified. Funds allocated to multiregional projects are
accounted for by recipient country in tables and text when referring to regional
breakdowns. For sector and theme breakdowns, funds are accounted for by
operation. Fiscal year commitments and disbursements data are in accordance
with the audited figures reported in the IBRD and IDA Financial Statements and
Management’s Discussion and Analysis documents for fiscal 2020. As a result
of rounding, numbers in tables may not add to totals, and percentages in figures
have been adjusted to add to 100.
 

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

THE WORLD BANK GROUP’S RESPONSE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
The World Bank Group will provide up to $160 billion through the end of June 2021 to help countries address the health, social,
and economic impacts of COVID-19 while maintaining a line of sight to their long-term development goals. This support will be
guided by the following framework, which can be adapted to local country contexts. Through this approach, we will ensure that our
response draws from our comparative advantages, can scale up selectively for impact, and contributes to our goals of ending
extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity.

SAVE LIVES

PROTECT
THE POOR
& MOST
VULNERABLE

ENSURE
SUSTAINABLE
BUSINESS
GROWTH
AND JOB
CREATION

STRENGTHEN
POLICIES,
INSTITUTIONS,
AND INVESTMENTS
FOR REBUILDING
BETTER

The COVID-19 pandemic
could push

about 100 million
more people into
extreme poverty.

RELIEF

RE S TRU CT U RIN G

RE SILIENT RECOVERY

Public health emergency

Restructuring health systems

Pandemic-ready health systems

•	 W
 BG global emergency health
program and new Bank projects

•	 W
 BG global emergency health
program and new Bank projects

•	 W
 BG global emergency health
program and new Bank projects

•	 R
 estructuring existing Bank
projects

•	 M
 obilizing private investment to
close health supply gaps

•	 L
 ong-term IFC financing for
private firms

Social emergency

Restoring human capital

Building equity and inclusion

•	 Cash and in-kind transfers

•	 Cash and in-kind transfers

•	 Cash and in-kind transfers

•	 Community-driven development

•	 Community-driven development

•	 Community-driven development

•	 Restructuring existing Bank projects

•	 New Bank projects

•	 Guarantees to microfinance 		
	 institutions (MFIs)

•	 R
 ecapitalization of MFIs through IFC
support

•	 Advisory services and analytics 		
	 (ASAs) on labor market policies

Economic emergency

Firm restructuring & debt resolution

•	 New Bank projects and programs

•	 New Bank projects

•	 S
 upport for trade and working
capital from IFC

•	 IFC support to recapitalize firms

•	 New Bank projects

•	 Long-term financing from IFC

•	 IFC and MIGA instruments

•	 MIGA instruments

•	 MIGA instruments

•	 PPPs

•	 Financing from public–private 		
	 partnerships (PPPs)

•	 PPPs

Maintaining focus on long-term goals

Policy and institutional reforms

Investments to rebuild better

•	 N
 ew Bank projects on fiscal
strengthening and service delivery

•	 New Bank projects

•	 F
 ull range of Bank Group
instruments, with focus on PPPs
and private sector solutions

•	 A
 SAs on debt sustainability and
transparency
•	 Guarantees for small and medium 		
enterprises and MFIs

•	 A
 SAs on restructuring and to
track progress toward shared
development goals

•	 IFC lending to MFIs

Green business growth & job
creation

•	 A
 SAs to track progress toward
shared development goals

For more information, read:

Saving Lives, Scaling-up Impact, and Getting Back on Track

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

RESPECT
The mission of the World Bank Group centers on
two overarching goals:

I M PAC T
End extreme poverty . . .

INTEGRITY
by reducing the share of the global population
living on less than $1.90 a day.

TEAMWORK
Promote shared prosperity . . .

I N N O VAT I O N
. . . by increasing the incomes of the
poorest 40 percent of people.

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

2	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Countries are facing unprecedented challenges
in their efforts to achieve sustainable development. The COVID-19 pandemic
is threatening lives, livelihoods, and entire economies, erasing decades of
economic progress, poverty reduction, and gains in human development. The
world has made great strides in reducing extreme poverty in recent decades,
but was not on track to reach the goal of ending it by 2030 even before the
coronavirus hit—the pandemic could push about 100 million more people into
extreme poverty in 2020. And by 2030, up to two-thirds of the world’s extreme
poor could be living in settings affected by fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV).
The World Bank works closely with countries to provide assistance where it is
needed most. In addition to financing, we draw on experience and knowledge
that span regions and sectors to provide evidence-based insights and policy
support, helping countries address their development priorities and facilitating the exchange of ideas and best practices. We are increasing our support to
the poorest countries through IDA, which received a strong vote of confidence
and $82 billion in financing at its latest three-year replenishment in December
2019. Our footprint in IDA countries—as well as countries affected by FCV—
continues to grow, even as physical distancing poses unfamiliar challenges to
working with clients and the people we serve.
In these unprecedented times, we remain committed to providing flexible,
innovative, and rapid solutions. The World Bank Group expects to deploy up
to $160 billion over 15 months through June 2021 in financing tailored to the
health, economic, and social shocks countries are facing as a result of the
COVID-19 pandemic. The combination of financing, knowledge, experience,
and global partnership makes the World Bank uniquely positioned to help
countries respond to the crisis, protect hard-earned development gains, and
plan for the recovery.
	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES IN UNPRECEDENTED TIMES 	

3

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

ME SSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT

The COVID-19 pandemic presented countries with unprecedented challenges this
year, requiring them to respond quickly to major disruptions in health care, economic activity, and livelihoods. The World Bank Group has been at the forefront of
that response, mobilizing rapidly to deliver much-needed support to countries to
provide critical supplies, reduce loss of life and economic hardship, protect hardearned development gains, and deliver on our mission of reducing poverty and
boosting shared prosperity. Our goal in all these efforts is to improve conditions,
both immediate and long-term, for the poorest and most vulnerable populations.
At the onset of COVID-19, the Bank Group took broad, decisive action in delivering a fast-track facility to help countries respond quickly to this crisis. We expect
to deploy up to $160 billion in the 15 months ending June 30, 2021, through new
operations and the restructuring of existing ones to help countries address the wide
range of needs arising from the pandemic. This will include over $50 billion of IDA
resources on grant and highly concessional terms.
By May, we reached the milestone of emergency health operations in 100 countries. Our initial projects focused on limiting the pandemic’s spread and boosting
the capacity of health services. We helped countries access essential medical
supplies and equipment through support for procurement and logistics, including
negotiations with suppliers on their behalf. Many developing countries are dependent on imports for supplies, making them highly exposed to price fluctuations and
trade restrictions. Through IFC and MIGA, we provided vital working capital and
trade finance for the private sector in developing countries, particularly firms in core
industries, and helped financial sectors continue lending to viable local businesses.
In March, the World Bank and IMF called for official bilateral creditors to suspend debt payments from IDA countries. In April, G20 leaders issued a historic
agreement suspending official bilateral debt service payments from May 1 through
the end of 2020 and called for comparable treatment by commercial creditors—
a powerful example of international cooperation to help the poorest countries.
Beyond immediate health concerns, the Bank Group is supporting countries
as they reopen their economies, restore jobs and services, and pave the pathway
to a sustainable recovery. Many of our client countries have enhanced their transparency and attractiveness to new investment with fuller disclosure of their public
sector’s financial commitments. The Bank is helping the most vulnerable countries
evaluate their debt sustainability and transparency, which are both essential to
good development outcomes.
The Bank Group is supporting countries’ efforts to scale up their social safety
nets. This includes cash transfer operations through both in-person and digital
options so that governments can efficiently deliver this critical support to their most
vulnerable people. We are also engaging with governments to eliminate or redirect
costly and environmentally harmful fuel subsidies and reduce trade barriers for
food and medical supplies.
In fiscal 2020, IBRD’s net commitments rose to $28 billion, while disbursements
remained strong. IDA’s net commitments were $30.4 billion, 39 percent higher than
the previous year. The 19th replenishment of IDA was approved in March, securing a three-year $82 billion financing package for the world’s 76 poorest countries.
This will increase our support to countries affected by fragility, conflict, and violence
(FCV) and strengthen debt transparency and sustainable borrowing practices.
Over the last year, we realigned the Bank’s staff and management to drive
coordinated country programs and put high-quality knowledge at the center of
our operations and development policy. We are increasing our global footprint to
4	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

be closer to our operations on the ground. We
also strengthened our focus on Africa by creating
two Bank vice presidencies, one focusing on Western and Central Africa and the other on Eastern
and Southern Africa, to take effect in fiscal 2021.
I appointed four new senior leaders: Anshula
Kant as Managing Director and Chief Financial
Officer, Mari Pangestu as Managing Director of
Development Policy and Partnerships, Hiroshi
Matano as Executive Vice President of MIGA,
and Axel van Trotsenburg as Managing Director of Operations on the departure of Kristalina
Georgieva to head the IMF. In addition to these
appointments, there were 12 vice-presidential appointments or reassignments
over the last year. Together, the strong leadership team and a highly dedicated and
motivated staff are striving to build the world’s most effective development institution, with a resilient and responsive business model that can help each country
and region achieve better development outcomes.
At our Annual Meetings in October, we presented a new index to track learning poverty—the percentage of 10-year-olds who cannot read and understand a
basic story. Reducing learning poverty will require comprehensive reforms, but the
payoff—equipping children with the skills they need to succeed and achieve
their potential as adults—is vital for development.
By helping countries leverage new digital technologies, we are expanding access
to low-cost financial transactions, particularly for women and other vulnerable
groups. Digital connectivity is one of many key steps in helping women unleash their
full economic potential. The Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (We-Fi), hosted
by the Bank Group, works to remove regulatory and legal barriers that women face
and help them gain access to the financing, markets, and networks they need to
succeed. Bank operations also focus on providing women with greater agency and
voice in their communities, working to ensure that girls can learn effectively and
safely in schools, and promoting quality health care for mothers and children.
We help countries strengthen their private sectors, which are central to creating
jobs and boosting economic growth. In fiscal 2020, IFC’s long-term finance commitments increased to $22 billion, which includes $11 billion of its own commitments
and $11 billion in mobilization, commitments from private investors, and others.
In addition, IFC extended $6.5 billion in short-term finance. MIGA’s commitments
totaled $4 billion, with an average project size of $84 million. Looking forward,
MIGA’s product line, staffing, and upstream efforts are well suited to help in the Bank
Group’s COVID-19 response, including a focus on smaller projects in IDA-eligible
countries and countries affected by FCV.
None of these achievements would have been possible without our staff’s hard
work and successful adjustment to home-based work during the pandemic. Working around the world and at all levels, staff continued to deliver solutions to address
countries’ most urgent needs. I am deeply grateful for their dedication and flexibility,
especially amid these difficult circumstances.
As people in developing countries worldwide grapple with the pandemic and
deep recessions, the World Bank Group remains committed to their future, pro­
viding the support and assistance they need to overcome this crisis, and achieve a
sustainable and inclusive recovery.

DAVID MALPASS
President of the World Bank Group
and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors

	

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 	

5

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

MESSAGE FROM THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
We are facing one of the most challenging times for development since the creation
of the World Bank in 1944. The COVID-19 pandemic has spared no country or segment of society; it has gravely impacted the lives of millions, small and large businesses across the world, and the modern global economy as we know it. Through
combined efforts to address this pandemic, the World Bank Group has taken swift
and comprehensive action. We express our heartfelt thanks to the staff, who have
worked tirelessly to mobilize resources in fighting these unprecedented global
health, social, and economic crises. Guided by our twin goals of ending poverty and
promoting shared prosperity, and the COVID-19 Crisis Response Approach Paper:
Saving Lives, Scaling-up Impact and Getting Back on Track, the Bank Group has
committed to provide as much as $160 billion over 15 months to help countries
respond to the crisis—as of the end of fiscal 2020, we were already providing support in over 100 countries. We envisage this funding will help improve resilience and
inclusion, as well as foster transformative investments that will in turn help countries build back better. We believe our continued cooperation with governments, private and public sector partners, and a wide range of stakeholders is key to returning
to a sustainable path of recovery and development.
Recognizing the severe impact on countries’ abilities to respond effectively to
the crisis, the World Bank and IMF called for a debt service suspension for the poorest countries as endorsed by the G-20 Finance Ministers in April 2020. This will help
countries free up resources so that they can increase social, health, or economic
spending in response to COVID-19. Our recently approved Sustainable Development Finance Policy will also help provide incentives to IDA-eligible countries to
move toward transparent and sustainable financing and to strengthen creditor
coordination. The recently approved IDA19 replenishment is a key part of this effort.
Starting on July 1, 2020, the historic $82 billion financing package secured in fiscal
2020 will help IDA countries invest in immediate needs and longer-term economic
growth as well as bolster their resilience to climate shocks and natural disasters.
To support further progress toward the twin goals and the Sustainable Development Goals, we endorsed the World Bank Group’s Fragility, Conflict, and Violence
(FCV) Strategy. Building on the ongoing, successful implementation of the 2016
Forward Look and the 2018 capital package, the strategy aims to enhance effectiveness in helping countries address the drivers and impacts of FCV and in strengthening resilience, with a focus on the most vulnerable and marginalized populations.
6	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

From left to right, top row: DJ Nordquist, United States; Masanori Yoshida, Japan; Richard Hugh
Montgomery, United Kingdom; Arnaud Buissé, France; Juergen Karl Zattler, Germany; Shahid Ashraf
Tarar, Pakistan; Louise Levonian, Canada; Adrián Fernández, Uruguay; Kunil Hwang, Korea; (from
left to right, middle row) Guenther Schoenleitner, Austria; Merza Hussain Hasan, Kuwait (Dean);
Aparna Subramani, India; Jean-Claude Tchatchouang, Cameroon; Anne Kabagambe, Uganda; Elsa
Agustin, Philippines (Alternate); Kulaya Tantitemit, Thailand; Yingming Yang, China; Jorge Alejandro
Chávez Presa, Mexico; (from left to right, bottom row) Koen Davidse, The Netherlands; Geir H.
Haarde, Iceland; Patrizio Pagano, Italy (Co-Dean); Hesham Alogeel, Saudi Arabia; Roman Marshavin,
Russian Federation; Werner Gruber, Switzerland; Larai Hajara Shuaibu, Nigeria

Earlier in fiscal 2020 we discussed strategic and operational issues related
to jobs and economic transformation, migration, global value chains, and digital
transformation. We reengaged with Somalia and discussed changes to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. We focused attention on progress in
the Human Capital Project; Women, Business and the Law; and the fight against
gender-based violence.
We welcomed the Bank Group becoming the largest multilateral funder of
climate investments in developing countries and continued to encourage progress
on climate adaptation, resilience, and action, as well as in mainstreaming disaster risk management.
We discussed critical matters to our organization, such as having staff located
closer to our clients and how we measure development results; our independent
accountability mechanisms, as well as the Inspection Panel toolkit, whose review
we approved in fiscal 2020; and the governance framework related to IDA voting
rights and the 2020 Shareholding review. In addition, we discussed and endorsed
the strategy and business outlook for the World Bank for fiscal 2021–23 and budget
for fiscal 2021 that help shape the Bank Group’s direction over the coming year.
The Board strongly supports racial justice and equality within the Bank Group
and in our work. We will continue prioritizing diversity and inclusion across the institution and in our support to clients and communities. We believe that it is critical
to embed concern for race and ethnicity in our development work and programs
around the world, and that promoting diversity and inclusion in the workplace
reflects our institution’s core values. These efforts will remain an important focus
in the year ahead.
In addition to the operations and country engagements that we discussed and
approved, we visited project sites to engage with government officials, civil society,
private sector representatives, and other stakeholders on the effectiveness of the
Bank Group’s delivery model. In November 2019 and January 2020, Board members
traveled to Bangladesh, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Maldives, Nepal, and the West Bank.

	

MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 	

7

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

8	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

RESPONDING TO THE COVID-19
PANDEMIC
In early 2020, the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) struck countries
around the world, presenting enormous challenges to health systems and spurring widespread shutdowns, school and business closures, and job losses. Nearly
all countries are facing an unprecedented economic downturn.
The World Bank Group has been at the forefront of the global response. In
March, the Board of Executive Directors approved a new fast-track facility to help
countries address their immediate health needs and bolster economic recovery.
The World Bank deployed the first set of projects under this facility in April, aimed
at strengthening health systems, disease surveillance, and public health interventions. To soften the economic blow, IFC and MIGA moved quickly to provide
financing and increase access to capital to help companies continue operating
and paying their workers.
The Bank Group expects to deploy up to $160 billion over 15 months
through June 2021 to support countries’ responses to COVID-19 through a series
of new operations, the restructuring of existing ones, the triggering of catastrophe drawdown options, and support for sustainable private sector solutions that
promote restructuring and recovery. The pandemic could push about 100 million more people into extreme poverty in 2020. Countries impacted by FCV challenges are particularly vulnerable to the health, social, and economic impacts of
the pandemic. Our support in these settings focuses on investing in prevention,
remaining engaged in crisis situations, protecting human capital, and supporting
the most vulnerable and marginalized groups, including forcibly displaced populations. The poorest and most vulnerable countries also face food insecurity,
as supply chain disruptions and export restrictions threaten the food supply. To
address this, we urged countries to ensure that food supply chains continued to
flow and function safely and helped them monitor the impact of the pandemic on
people’s ability to buy food. We advocated for strong social protection programs
for the poorest and most vulnerable to ensure that people can afford to eat and
access basic food supplies, while helping protect livelihoods.
Our research and knowledge products looked at the widespread impact of the
pandemic—including economic updates, a report on declining global remittance
flows, and a policy note on the shock to education and children’s futures. But long
after the immediate crisis subsides, countries will need support in mitigating its
impacts and boosting long-term growth. Our policy recommendations offered
countries ways to achieve this, including by improving governance and business
environments, countering disruptions in financial markets, investing in education and health for better human capital outcomes, facilitating new investments
through greater debt transparency, expanding cash safety nets for the poor,
reviewing energy pricing policies, and implementing reforms that allow for capital
and labor to adjust quickly to post-pandemic structures.
Engaging with the private sector is critical to the emergency response, and
IFC expects to provide $47 billion in financial support through June 2021 as
its part of the Bank Group’s response. In its initial package, IFC is providing $8
billion to help companies continue operating and sustain jobs during the crisis.
This package will support existing clients in vulnerable industries, including infrastructure, manufacturing, agriculture, and services, and provide liquidity to financial institutions so they can provide trade financing to companies that import and
export goods and extend credit to help businesses shore up their working capital.
IFC is also preparing the second phase of its response, during which it will
support existing and new clients. This includes the Global Health Platform, which

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES IN UNPRECEDENTED TIMES 	

9

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

aims to increase access to critical health care supplies, including masks, ventilators, test kits, and, eventually, vaccines. It will provide financing to manufacturers, suppliers of critical raw materials, and service providers to expand capacity
for delivering products and services to developing countries. IFC will contribute
$2 billion for its own account and mobilize an additional $2 billion from private
sector partners. It will also help restructure and recapitalize companies and financial institutions on their path to recovery.
MIGA also launched a $6.5 billion fast-track facility to help private sector
investors and lenders tackle the pandemic in low- and middle-income countries. The facility allows for the issuance of guarantees using streamlined and expedited procedures. It offers credit enhancement for governments and their agencies
to purchase urgent medical equipment, protective gear, medicines, and services,
and to fund economic recovery efforts. It also includes de-risking solutions for
com­mercial banks and financial institutions, as well as support for trade financing
for local banks.
By supporting trade financing, both IFC and MIGA are complementing broader
Bank Group efforts to ensure that global supply chains are preserved, particularly
for the production and distribution of vital medical supplies. We mobilized quickly
to help countries access these supplies by reaching out to suppliers on behalf
of governments. We also cautioned governments against protectionist measures,
which can reduce global supply, lead to higher prices, and prevent developing
countries from getting the supplies they need.
The Bank, along with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), called for the suspension of bilateral debt payments from IDA countries to ensure that countries
have the liquidity needed to grapple with the challenges posed by the outbreak
and allow for an assessment of their financing needs. On April 15, leaders of the
G20 nations heeded this call and issued a debt relief agreement suspending bilateral debt service payments by poor countries beginning May 1. In remarks to the
Development Committee at the virtual Spring Meetings of the Bank Group and
IMF, President David Malpass commended this historic achievement: “Debt relief
is a powerful, fast-acting measure that can bring real benefits to the people in
poor countries.”
In June 2020, the Board of Executive Directors approved an approach paper
detailing our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The paper Saving Lives,
Scaling-up Impact, and Getting Back on Track explains how we’re organizing our
crisis response across the three stages of relief, restructuring, and resilient recovery. The first involves emergency response to the immediate health, social, and
economic impacts of COVID-19. Then, as countries bring the pandemic under
control and start reopening their economies, the restructuring stage focuses on
strengthening health systems for future crises; restoring people’s lives and livelihoods through education, jobs, and access to health care; and helping firms and
financial institutions regain a solid footing. The resilient recovery stage entails
helping countries build a more sustainable, inclusive, and resilient future in a
world transformed by the pandemic.
We will continue to deliver support with unparalleled scale and speed, while
concentrating our efforts for the greatest impact and maintaining our financial
capacity for a robust response. Working across all the Bank Group institutions,
we will continue seeking the right mix of public and private sector solutions and
working with clients and partners to fight the pandemic.
Despite the unprecedented scale of the crisis and the ways we’ve repositioned
our support to countries, our long-term mission remains unchanged. We remain
committed to our goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity in a sustainable manner. To get there, we will focus our efforts on helping
countries work toward a resilient recovery from the pandemic and ultimately build
back stronger.

10	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

NIGERIA:

$50 million

loan from IFC to a domestic bank to help expand
lending to small and medium enterprises so
that they can continue operating and sustain
jobs, as part of ongoing efforts to support
resilient recovery.

MONGOLIA:

$27 million
in World Bank financing to
help provide training for
emergency care doctors,
nurses, and paramedics;
purchase medical and
laboratory equipment
and supplies; rehabilitate
health care facilities; and
strengthen the country’s
capacity to respond to
health crises.

KYRGYZ REPUBLIC:

$12 million

in World Bank financing to help boost the capacity
of rapid-response teams, hospitals, and laboratories
by providing medical and laboratory supplies, ICU
equipment, and preparedness funds for hospitals.

COLOMBIA:

$385 million

in MIGA guarantees to support short-term
financing for micro-, small, and medium
enterprises facing constraints to accessing
credit as a result of the pandemic.

YEMEN:

$27 million

in World Bank financing to
help the country limit the
spread of and mitigate risks
associated with COVID-19, in
partnership with the World
Health Organization (WHO).

INDIA:

$2.8 billion

in World Bank financing to strengthen
health care services, provide support
to small and medium enterprises,
and enhance social protection for the
poorest and most vulnerable, especially
women and migrant workers.
	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES IN UNPRECEDENTED TIMES 	

11

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE
WORLD BANK GROUP

The World Bank Group is one of the world’s largest sources of funding
and knowledge for developing countries. It consists of five institutions
with a shared commitment to reducing poverty, increasing shared prosperity, and promoting sustainable growth and development.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) lends to
governments of middle-income and creditworthy low-income countries.
International Development Association (IDA) provides financing on
highly concessional terms to governments of the poorest countries.
International Finance Corporation (IFC) provides loans, equity, and
advisory services to stimulate private sector investment in developing
countries.
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) provides political risk
insurance and credit enhancement to investors and lenders to facilitate
foreign direct investment in emerging economies.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
provides international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes.

12	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

WORLD BANK GROUP FINANCING
FOR PARTNER COUNTRIES

TABLE 1
WORLD BANK GROUP COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND GROSS ISSUANCE
BY FISCAL YEAR, MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

WORLD BANK GROUP

Commitmentsa

64,185

61,783

66,868

62,341

77,078

Disbursementsb

49,039

43,853

45,724

49,395

54,367

Commitmentsc

29,729

22,611

23,002

23,191

27,976

Disbursements

22,532

17,861

17,389

20,182

20,238

Commitmentsc

16,171

19,513d

24,010e

21,932e

30,365e

Disbursements

13,191

12,718d

14,383

17,549

21,179e

IBRD

IDA

IFC

Commitmentsf

11,117

11,854

11,629

8,920

11,135

Disbursements

9,953

10,355

11,149

9,074

10,518

4,258

4,842

5,251

5,548

3,961

MIGA

Gross issuance

RECIPIENT-EXECUTED TRUST FUNDS

Commitments

2,910

2,962

2,976

2,749

3,641

Disbursements

3,363

2,919

2,803

2,590

2,433

a.	Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, Recipient-Executed Trust Fund (RETF) commitments, and MIGA gross
issuance. RETF commitments include all recipient-executed grants, and therefore total World
Bank Group commitments differ from the amount reported in the Corporate Scorecard, which
includes only a subset of trust-funded activities.
b.	Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, and RETF disbursements.
c.	Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year.
d.	Figures include the commitment and disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
Emergency Financing Facility.
e.	Commitments and disbursements exclude IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window (PSW) activities.
f.	Long-term commitments for IFC’s own account. Does not include short-term finance or funds
mobilized from other investors.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES IN UNPRECEDENTED TIMES 	

13

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

GLOBAL COMMITMENTS
The World Bank Group supported developing countries in fiscal 2020 by delivering results
for clients, convening key partners, and addressing an unprecedented pandemic and global
economic challenge.

LATIN AMERICA
AND THE CARIBBEAN

$12.8
BILLION

TOTAL

$77.1
BILLION

in loans, grants, equity investments, and
guarantees to partner countries and private businesses.
Total includes multiregional and global operations.
Regional breakdowns reflect World Bank country
classifications.

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

$9.2
BILLION

EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

$10.5
BILLION

$4.8
BILLION

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

$ 25.4

$14.4
BILLION
SOUTH ASIA

BILLION

SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA

	

2020 SUMMARY RESULTS 	

15

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

16	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

REGIONAL PERSPECTIVES

The World Bank operates out of 145 countries worldwide. An
increased presence in client countries is helping the Bank to better
understand, work more effectively with, and provide more timely
services to our partners in those countries. Ninety-six percent of
Country Directors/Country Managers and 46 percent of staff are
based in countries within each of the six geographical regions.
The following section features notable examples of our support to
countries in fiscal 2020.

	

THE REGIONS 	

17

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

AFRICA
GLOBAL VOLATILITY DUE TO COVID-19 is having a negative impact on Sub-Saharan
Africa. The health, economic, and social impacts are costing the region between $37 billion and $79 billion in output losses in 2020, reducing agricultural productivity, weakening supply chains, limiting job prospects, and decreasing remittances—all contributing
to uncertainty. Unprecedented locust swarms are further disrupting food security and
livelihoods in East Africa. Economic growth is expected to contract from 2.4 percent in
2019 to between –2.1 and –5.1 percent in 2020, sparking the region’s first recession in 25
years. The pandemic is likely to push millions of households into poverty and could spark
a food security crisis, with Africa’s agricultural production potentially contracting in the
range of 2.6 to 7 percent. With almost 90 percent of the region’s workers in informal jobs,
we also seek to help countries reach them with the support they need.

World Bank assistance
In fiscal 2020, the Bank approved $20.8 billion in lendIn fiscal 2020,
ing to the Africa region for 156 operations, including
$1.7 billion in IBRD commitments and $19.1 billion
in response to COVID-19,
in IDA commitments. Revenue from Reimbursable
the Bank approved 28 new
Advisory Services agreements with eight counoperations ($493 million)
tries was $11 million.
and redirected funding
We seek to help the region foster human
from
27 existing projects
capital and empower women, leverage dig($476
million) for Africa
ital technologies for trade and government
under the global Strategic
effective­
ness, maintain public investment and
mobilize private financing in critical sectors, encourPreparedness and
age job creation, and address the drivers and effects
Response Program.
of climate change and conflict.

Powering Africa’s potential through its people
In April 2019, we launched the Africa Human Capital Plan, which sets out targets and
commitments to boost the region’s potential through its human capital—the health,
knowledge, skills, and resilience of its people. The plan aims to reduce child mortality and
stunting and increase children’s learning outcomes by 20 percent. It also seeks to provide social protection to 13 million more people, empower women, reduce adolescent
fertility rates, and improve sanitation practices.
Since the plan’s launch, we have doubled our commitments to boost human capital
outcomes in the region, including $2.2 billion to empower women. The flagship Sahel
Women Empowerment and Demographic Dividend Project will soon reach nine countries
with $675 million in Bank funding. It helps empower women and girls in the Sahel region
by increasing their access to education and quality health care, boosting employment
opportunities, and engaging religious and community leaders to amplify these results.
To date, it has helped more than 100,000 girls go to school, trained more than 6,600
midwives, and implemented vocational training for nearly 100,000 women.

Supporting inclusive governance and transforming economies
Our work on governance and inclusion focuses on enabling efficient and inclusive delivery of public services and building institutions and systems that are resilient to economic,
social, and environmental pressures. We help countries create sound conditions for investment and ensure continuity of state services, promoting progress toward sustainable
TABLE 2 AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2018–20
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY18	 FY19	FY20	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY18	FY19	FY20

IBRD	 1,120	 820	1,725	 734	 690	1,087
IDA	
15,411	 14,187	19,095	 8,206	 10,190	13,373
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2020: $88.2 billion.

18	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

development. Technology has also affected how governments operate and interact with
citizens, improving transparency and service delivery.
We leverage all sources of financing and expertise to help create an enabling environment for investors, particularly those in the private sector. This approach will open up
more opportunities for governments and companies to scale up critical infrastructure,
expand digital access, and generate employment. We are also working with countries to
realize a rapid transition to the digital economy, which can boost productivity, increase
financial inclusion, and create jobs. The region is working to connect every African individual, business, and government to the internet by 2030.
In March 2020, Somalia began receiving debt relief under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative to help the country reduce its debt from
$5.2 billion at the end of 2018 to $557 million once it reaches the HIPC Completion Point
in about three years’ time. The Bank played a strong role in helping Somalia achieve
this milestone, including $140 million in pre-arrears clearance grants in fiscal 2019 and
$475 million in development policy financing to strengthen state capacity, financial management, and transparency, and promote inclusive private sector–led growth.

Addressing the drivers of fragility and conflict
Addressing fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV) is a priority of the region’s Human
Capital Plan, as these issues continue to limit opportunities. Access to education and
vocational training is limited, leaving many young people with few marketable skills.
Private sector growth is constrained, with few openings for job seekers. And security
concerns limit the provision and quality of public service delivery.
In fiscal 2020, we invested $2.5 billion in countries affected by FCV. In the Central
African Republic, which has experienced cycles of violence and conflict since gaining
independence in 1960, we have helped strengthen governance, public financial management, and service delivery following the signing of a peace agreement in February
2019. We also produced analytical work outlining ways for the country to realize inclusive
growth, including by enhancing public services, strengthening the social contract, broadening the tax base, and modernizing the tax system.
We will build on this progress with more investments and high-quality interventions,
including additional funding under IDA19 for cross-border programs in the Sahel, the
Lake Chad region, and the Horn of Africa. These efforts will also seek to address the
different risks and opportunities that women and men face in FCV situations.

Supporting climate change mitigation and adaptation
With the poor in Africa hardest hit by climate change, investments in climate resilience
are a top priority. The region has set new targets to support integrated landscape management of more than 60 million hectares in 20 countries, improve the livelihoods of
10 million farmers through climate-smart agriculture, and increase renewable energy
generation capacity from 28 to 38 gigawatts.
The Africa Climate Business Plan (ACBP), launched in 2015, and the updated Next
Generation ACBP are grounded in the Bank Group’s commitment to mainstream climate
into development. As of December 2019, more than $30 billion of Bank financing has
been delivered for 312 projects, exceeding the plan’s 2020 resource mobilization target.
The updated plan builds on the achievements and lessons of the original ACBP to propel
a bold vision for climate action at scale.
FIGURE 1 AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2020
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $20.8 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

6%
3%

Transportation

	

11%

17 %

Information and
Communications Technologies
Industry, Trade, and Services

15%

13%

Social Protection

Public Administration

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

7%

3%

Education

Energy and Extractives
Financial Sector

4%
8%

13%

Health

THE REGIONS 	

19

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Stepping up to support regional integration in Africa
The Bank Group is expanding support for regional integration, including fostering linkages with North Africa, to address the key priorities of the continent’s 54 countries. We
are focusing on: strengthening connectivity through infrastructure development in transport, energy, and digital technology; supporting trade and building markets; improving
human capital by providing opportunities for skills development, empowering women,
and managing diseases and pandemics; and promoting resilience through work on
farming and livestock, food security, climate change, displacement, and transboundary
waters. We also aim to address the drivers of fragility in the Horn of Africa, the Lake Chad
region, and the Sahel.
The Regional Disease Surveillance Systems Enhancement Program covers 16 countries and provides $629 million in financing. It strengthens health systems and intercountry collaboration to detect and respond to outbreaks of communicable diseases.
The Bank has also provided $250 million to help Ethiopia, Zambia, and the African Union
implement the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention project, to counter the
spread of infectious diseases and address regional and continent-wide public health
issues. Both projects have now mobilized resources to help countries procure laboratory
equipment and increase their capacities to address the COVID-19 pandemic.
Locust swarms are jeopardizing the food security and livelihoods of millions of
people in the region. We are helping countries respond to this threat through the $500
million Emergency Locust Response Program, which provides support for monitoring
and controlling locust populations, helping people safeguard their assets and cope
with the economic impacts, and strengthening national preparedness systems. The
program has provided financing to Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, and Uganda to support
their response efforts.
TABLE 3 AFRICA: REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	2010	 DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	
Population growth (annual %)	
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	
Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	

664	

868 	

2.7	

2.8	

1,106	
2.7	

550	

1,434	

1,536	

0.8	

2.6	

(0.4)	

388 	405	 420	
b

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

52	

58	

63	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

49	

55	

60	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

565	

765	

848	

Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

55.4b	46.6	 42.3	

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services	

9	3	 8	

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO estimate)	

84	85	 86	

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)	

78	76	 74	

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births	

153	

101	

78	

Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

54	68	 69	

Individuals using the Internet (% of population)	

<1	

7	

25 	

Access to electricity (% population)	

26	

34	

48	

Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

73	72	 70	

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)	

23	27	 31	

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)	

46	55	 61	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2019; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. 2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/afr.

20	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

SPOTLIGHT

Supporting refugees and host communities in Uganda
WITH A REFUGEE POPULATION OF 1.4 MILLION, Uganda is Africa’s largest host of refugees

and the world’s third largest. Despite the country having some of the world’s most progressive and generous refugee policies, refugees experience practical challenges in securing livelihoods and social services. This is due in part to their protracted presence and
the fluid nature of new arrivals. These trends have increased demand for local services in
hosting areas and on communities that are themselves underserved, underlining the need
for long-term investments.
The Bank is supporting Uganda through the $150 million Development Response to
Displacement Impacts Project, which secured financing from IDA’s sub-window for refugees and host communities. The project is improving access to basic social services,
expanding economic opportunities, and upgrading social and economic infrastructure. It
also supports natural resource management and environmental regeneration.
The project covers 14 districts in Uganda that host the largest number of refugees. It
has a larger footprint in the north, where the focus is on graduating from an emergency
response to a medium-term perspective; in the west and southwest, it centers on enhancing economic opportunities and integrating district and national service delivery systems.
A Displacement Crisis Response Mechanism provides financing that enables the government to rapidly scale up education, health, and water supply services to poor and vulnerable communities that may face a rapid inflow of refugees.
In Koboko, northwestern Uganda, we are easing overcrowding and improving the
learning environment in Lobule primary school by building new classrooms, with upgrades
such as rainwater harvesting tanks, better lighting, and drainable latrines. In total, about
80 facilities have been built and nearly 100 are under construction; they include classrooms with modern furniture, teachers’ houses, health centers, public latrines, water
harvesting tanks, and veterinary clinics. The project is also helping rehabilitate degraded
lands, improve the sustainability of water sources, and maintain fertile croplands and
forests. Renovations are becoming more user-friendly by using alternative energy, such
as solar energy for lighting and water pumping, and better household cook stoves.
To help both refugees and host communities thrive, a livelihoods program is helping
create, expand, and improve opportunities for people to earn income, including in valueadded agriculture, fisheries, and charcoal and brick production.
The project is part of a larger regional effort to support communities hosting refugees in Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Uganda. Through a community-driven development
approach, it ensures citizen participation and engagement in identifying and prioritizing
sub-projects that address urgent community needs, empowering not only the community
but also grassroots institutions and decentralized government bodies. The project also
seeks to address underlying social risks, including gender-based violence and violence
against children. The overarching goal is to enhance social cohesion among refugee and
host communities, improve social accountability, and integrate humanitarian and development programs for the benefit of all.

	

THE REGIONS 	

21

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

EAST ASIA & PACIFIC
EVEN BEFORE THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC, growth in East Asia and Pacific was slow-

ing, from 6.3 percent in 2018 to 5.9 percent in 2019. In China, growth decelerated
from 6.6 percent in 2018 to 6.1 percent in 2019; in the rest of developing East Asia
and Pacific, it declined from 5.2 percent in 2018 to 4.7 percent in 2019. Growth in
the region is expected to slow to 0.5 percent in 2020, according to the June edition
of the Bank’s Global Economic Prospects report. The risks to the outlook are firmly
tilted to the downside. They include the pandemic lasting longer than expected, prolonged financial stress, and a con­traction in global trade being sharper and longer
than expected, compounded by re-escalating trade disputes.
In 2019, the estimated number of poor (living on less than $5.50 per day)
in developing East Asia and Pacific (excluding China) was 271 million; in China,
there were about 225 million, even though China accounts for about 65 percent
of the total population of developing East Asia. However, the economic impacts of
COVID-19 could lead to a sizable increase in poverty in the region in 2020.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $7.3 billion for 77 operations
In fiscal 2020, in
in the region in fiscal 2020, including $4.8 billion in
response to COVID-19,
IBRD commitments and $2.5 billion in IDA comthe Bank approved 11
mitments. We also signed Reimbursable Advisory
new operations ($500
Services agreements with three countries for a
million) and redirected
total of about $4 million.
funding from nine existing
projects ($42 million) for
The World Bank’s work in the region focuses
East Asia and Pacific under
on three main areas: human capital and incluthe global Strategic
sion, private sector–led growth, and resilience
Preparedness and
and sustainability.
Response Program.

Building human capital and promoting
economic inclusion
Promoting human capital is a priority for Indonesia, where we are providing $600
million to the government’s Family Hope Program to strengthen delivery systems
for social assistance and help break the cycle of poverty in some of the country’s
poorest communities. The program is providing conditional cash transfers and
supporting behavioral change for 10 million families to promote investment in their
children’s education and health. We are also supporting the Institutional Strengthening for Improved Village Service Delivery Project to help ensure the effective
spending of nearly $8 billion in fiscal transfers to about 75,000 villages, reaching
nearly 176 million Indonesians. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the government is

TABLE 4 EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2018–20
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

FY18	 FY19	FY20	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY18	FY19	FY20

3,981	 4,030	4,770	 3,476	5,048	4,679
631	 1,272	2,500	 1,252	1,282	1,589

Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2020: $35.5 billion.

22	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

using these funds to provide income support, health information, and community
assistance to mitigate the health, economic, and social impacts of the crisis.
In Lao People’s Democratic Republic, rates of maternal and child malnutrition
represent a loss of human capital, potentially costing an estimated 2.4 percent of
GDP annually. A child born in Lao PDR today is only 45 percent as productive as
she would be if they enjoyed complete education and full health. We are supporting
a long-term multisectoral approach to address malnutrition, with several complementary operations in provinces that suffer from stunting levels above 40 percent.
In the Philippines, we are supporting the Philippine Rural Development Project
with $570 million to help raise rural incomes and enhance farm and fishery productivity throughout the country. The project has provided about 323,500 people—
46 percent of whom are women—with farm-to-market roads, irrigation, drinking
water, agricultural enterprise projects, and coastal and marine resource conservation activities. Surveys indicate that the household income of farmers and fisher
households who benefited from these efforts increased by an average of 36 percent.

Promoting private sector–led growth
Expanding private sector opportunities and creating an enabling environment for
investment and innovation are crucial for sustainable growth in the region. The Bank
is helping countries such as Fiji, Indonesia, and the Philippines implement policy
reforms that promote private sector growth. We are also providing advisory services to help countries including China, Malaysia, and Thailand improve the enabling
environment for doing business. We are promoting entrepreneurship and innovation through policies and programs that support micro, small, and medium enterprises in the Philippines, as well as investments in competitiveness and trade in Lao
PDR and Myanmar. We are helping broaden access to finance by implementing the
Bali Fintech Agenda, so that countries can harness the benefits of financial technology—fintech—while managing potential risks. We are also conducting fintech
assessments in the Philippines and Vietnam and promoting access to credit for
female farmers and small and medium enterprises in Cambodia and the Independent State of Samoa.

Building resilience and sustainability
Countries in the region are highly exposed to the impacts of climate change, but
they are innovating to accelerate mitigation. We are working with China to promote
low-carbon growth by supporting the government’s national emissions trading
scheme, power sector reform, and results-based air pollution control mechanisms.
We are also supporting policy reforms in Lao PDR and Vietnam through green

FIGURE 2 EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2020
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.3 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

5%
3%

Transportation

13%

Social Protection

Public Administration

	

6%

Education

10% Energy and Extractives

19%

Information and
Communications Technologies
Industry, Trade, and Services

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

16%

10%

3%
5%

10%

Financial Sector
Health

THE REGIONS 	

23

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

growth and climate-focused development policy financing and helping Thailand and
Vietnam with analytical and advisory work on carbon pricing.
Through innovative financing mechanisms, we are helping countries invest in
climate-smart agriculture to ensure food security and in climate-smart infrastructure to make sure they can withstand extreme weather events. Vietnam’s densely
populated, low-lying Mekong Delta is the epicenter of the country’s vulnerability
to climate change. It is home to 20 million people, many of whom depend on rice
farming for their livelihoods. The $310 million Integrated Climate Resilience and
Sustainable Livelihoods Project supports the transition to more climate-resilient
water and land management practices here, while improving the economic wellbeing of rural communities. It is also introducing climate-smart integrated planning
across the Delta region.

TABLE 5 EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC: REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	2010	 DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

1,816	

1,966	

2,094 	

Population growth (annual %)	

1.0	

0.7	

0.6	

GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	

911	

3,759	

8,299	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

6.4	

9.0	

5.2	

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	

550b	219	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

75	

68	

71	

73	

4,189	 10,004	

11,421	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

28	

72	

Extreme poverty (% population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	
Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services	

78	

29.7b	11.2	

1.3	

8	2	 1 	

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO estimate)	

82	79	 78	

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)	

62	54	 47	

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births	

42	

Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

92	96	 98	

Individuals using the Internet (% of population)	

23	

16	

2	

29	

51	

Access to electricity (% population)	

92	

95	

98	

Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

32	16	 16	

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)	

56	72	 82	

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)	

80	88	 92	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2019; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. 2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/eap.

24	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

SPOTLIGHT

Bridging the digital divide in Tonga
SINCE 2011, THE BANK’S PACIFIC REGIONAL CONNECTIVITY PROGRAM has been work-

ing with governments in the Pacific to increase access to information and communication technology (ICT) and improve its affordability, reliability, and quality. In Tonga—a
geographically remote nation on 176 islands spread across 700,000 square kilometers
of the South Pacific Ocean—the first phase has delivered significant benefits.
Before the program, Tonga depended on expensive satellite links for internet connectivity, which was available to only 2 percent of the population. Access to broadband was
even lower, at 0.9 percent. This limited capacity could not meet the growing demands of
a population seeking better connectivity for business and trade, health, education, and
communication with the country’s diaspora community.
By investing in infrastructure and technical assistance, the program benefited over
101,000 people, including close to 20,000 in the two main outer islands of Ha’apai and
Vava’u. It reduced the costs of international connectivity and strengthened the telecommunications regulatory framework. This has improved the enabling environment for ICT,
fostered healthier market competition, and increased access to infrastructure and health
and government services. The average retail cost of broadband internet decreased by 97
percent and the average per-minute cost of international phone calls by 37 percent. The
effort delivered significantly lower wholesale prices for broadband and a 118-fold increase
in available international internet bandwidth to 4,400 megabits per second. The program
also funded the construction of a 1,217-kilometer network of submarine fiber optic cables,
connecting Tonga and Fiji, as well as Tonga’s main island to Ha’apai and Vava’u.
The positive impacts have reached beyond telecommunications. “This fiber optic cable
will allow our doctors to communicate more easily with health workers on other islands
and with doctors overseas,” explained Dr. Paula Vivili, Director of the Public Health at the
Pacific Community, and Tonga’s only eye surgeon. He added, “Video conferencing has big
potential for us, particularly as a remote island nation. It will mean international specialists
can join us and provide immediate advice and input during an operation, which will reduce
some of the pressure on our team here.”
To promote private sector participation, the project helped guide the partial privatization of the nation’s monopoly cable operator by selling 16.7 percent of the company to
a private operator. It also assisted in the development of the Communications Act,
passed in 2016.
This dual approach of delivering essential infrastructure and strengthening the regulatory environment is now being replicated in Fiji, Kiribati, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, the Independent State of Samoa, and Tuvalu. Improved connectivity has laid
the groundwork for the new Tonga Digital Government Support Project, which is working
to improve access to government services and strengthen digital access, efficiency, and
security in the public service.

	

THE REGIONS 	

25

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

EUROPE &
CENTRAL ASIA
REGIONAL GROWTH DECELERATED TO AN ESTIMATED 2.2 PERCENT IN 2019,
reflecting weakness in the region’s two largest economies, Russia and Turkey. It is
expected to fall into negative territory in 2020 in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
While the economic implications of COVID-19 are subject to significant uncertainty,
scenarios suggest regional growth will contract by 4.7 percent in 2020 before rebounding in 2021, as policy measures are introduced, global commodity prices recover, and
trade strengthens.
The pandemic is occurring at an already fragile time for emerging and developing
economies in Europe and Central Asia. Since February, the region has faced an uphill battle to cope with both the immediate health crisis and the long-term challenges caused
by the pandemic. Most economies are experiencing major disruptions to social and economic activity and to global and regional supply chains, as well as significantly limited
mobility, reduced travel and tourism, and decreased export demand.

World Bank assistance
In fiscal 2020,
In fiscal 2020, the World Bank approved $7.2 billion in
in response to COVIDlending to the region for 64 operations, including $5.7
19, the Bank approved
billion in IBRD commitments and $1.5 billion in IDA
11 new operations ($740
commitments. The Bank also signed 39 Reimbursmillion) and redirected
able Advisory Services agreements with seven
funding from nine existing
countries for a total of around $75 million.
projects ($689 million) for
We seek to support countries’ development
Europe and Central Asia
goals, with a focus on boosting health outcomes,
under the global Strategic
improving educational systems, promoting skills
Preparedness and
development, and achieving sustainable and resilient
Response
Program.
growth. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we are
prioritizing stronger health sector capabilities and effectiveness, as well as social protection. Improvements in education outcomes complement initiatives in the health sector, helping clients bolster human
capital development to ensure better livelihoods for people throughout their lives. We are
partnering with countries in the region to help ensure their paths to growth are both equitable and sustainable, and that they can increase their resilience to climate change and
mitigate its potential causes. In addition to financing, we are providing policy advice to
help countries address the impacts of the pandemic and influence the volume, focus, and
impact of government responses throughout the region.

Improving health care systems to improve effectiveness and save lives
The Bank helps countries enhance their health care systems through increased efficiency and upgraded facilities and equipment. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in
early 2020 has accelerated the need for better health systems that can minimize loss
of life and provide better health outcomes for all. In April 2020, we activated a EUR 15
million Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option operation for Serbia, which is helping
strengthen the country’s institutional and legal frameworks to effectively manage the
physical and fiscal impacts of health emergencies and natural hazards. This is allowing
the country to rapidly access funding to address COVID-19.
TABLE 6 EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2018–20
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

FY18	 FY19	FY20	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY18	FY19	FY20

3,550	 3,749	5,699	 4,134	2,209	3,100
957	 583	1,497	 298	 931	 365

Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2020: $29.8 billion.

26	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

In fiscal 2020, Tajikistan became the region’s first country to join the Global Financing
Facility for Women, Children, and Adolescence, a global platform that aims to address
health and nutrition issues more effectively by improving donor coordination and increasing efficiency in the use of domestic and international resources.
The Bank’s advisory services and analytics provide policy recommendations that help
governments make informed decisions to address development priorities. Our April 2020
regional economic update assessed COVID-19’s impact on economic growth and recommended policy measures to boost health care systems, support small businesses, and
enhance safety nets, especially for the poor and most vulnerable.

Boosting potential by investing in human capital
Ensuring quality health care and providing adequate education are the cornerstones of
human capital development and vital to preparing children to succeed and prosper as
adults in a rapidly changing world. As shown by the Human Capital Index, individuals in
Europe and Central Asia can achieve a high level of productivity during their life, backed
by solid investment in human capital during their childhood and teenage years. We work
with partners to drive targeted investments that can improve health and education outcomes and give people the opportunity to grow to their fullest potential.
The Innovation, Inclusion, and Quality Project in Georgia is providing $103 million
to expand access to preschool education and improve the quality of education and the
learning environment at all levels. Through this project, 116,000 students around the
country will gain access to better learning environments, 1,600 teachers and coaches will
receive advanced training, and 65 new schools will be built.
The $60 million Promoting Early Childhood Development Project is helping Uzbekistan improve preschool education, promote partnerships with the private sector, and
enable the systematic measurement of education quality to better inform policy making, strategic planning, and monitoring. More than 1 million children—including 540,000
girls—will benefit from modern and child-friendly equipment, furniture, and learning
materials. Over 20,000 preschool educators and staff are also being trained in new early
childhood development approaches.

Strengthening resilience to climate change and natural disasters
Over the past 30 years, countries across Europe and Central Asia have experienced
roughly 500 significant floods and earthquakes, resulting in 50,000 fatalities and affecting 25 million people. Nearly one-third of the region’s capital cities have been devastated
by an earthquake or flood at some point, while droughts and other natural disasters
continue to destroy livelihoods, with the poorest and most vulnerable disproportionally
impacted by these events.
Several operations are helping countries mitigate disasters related to climate
impacts, increase their preparedness, and enhance recovery efforts when disasters
strike. We were the first international financial institution to help Croatia after an earthquake in March 2020. We assisted with a rapid needs assessment, and in June 2020,
we approved the $200 million Earthquake Recovery and Public Health Preparedness
FIGURE 3 EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2020
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.2 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

6%
6%

Transportation

	

Education

12%

Energy and Extractives

8%

Financial Sector

10%

Information and
Communications Technologies
Industry, Trade, and Services

6%

15%

Social Protection

Public Administration

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

5%

4%
10%

18%

Health

THE REGIONS 	

27

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Emergency Recovery Project. This will help with the rehabilitation of critical public
services and the design of a financial support program for housing reconstruction.
In Turkey, the $133 million Sustainable Cities Project is helping improve sustainable
urban development through technical assistance, feasibility studies and environmental
assessments, and infrastructure investments. Turkey is also using an additional $325 million through the Renewable Energy Integration Project to develop and strengthen infrastructure so that it can integrate wind plants into the transmission grid and connect wind
energy with different parts of the country.
The North Macedonia Public Sector Energy Efficiency Project is providing $27 million to reduce energy consumption and support the development and implementation of
a sustainable financing mechanism for energy efficiency in the public sector, benefiting
nearly 97,000 people. The project will contribute to almost $4 million in energy savings
annually and reduce consumption by roughly 2.5 billion megajoules over 20 years.

Fostering cooperation across the region
Through regional initiatives, we help foster cooperation, boost connectivity, and promote
trade across borders. The $592 million Central Asia South Asia Electricity Transmission and Trade Project is creating conditions for sustainable electricity trading between
Afghanistan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, and Tajikistan. The $32 million Central Asia
Regional Hydrometeorology Modernization Project is helping improve the accuracy
of hydrological and meteorological services across Central Asia, while the multiphase
­Central Asia Regional Links Program is strengthening connectivity, trade, and logistics,
and supporting sustainable tourism across the region.
TABLE 7 EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA: REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	2010	 DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

369	

378	

0.0	

0.6	

0.5	

1,795	

7,391	

8,014	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

8.3	

5.0	

1.2	

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	

28b	12	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

73	

75	

78	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

62	

66	

70	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

2,610	

2,935	

2,979	

Population growth (annual %)	
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	

Extreme poverty (% population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

399	

6.0 	2.5	
b

6	

1.2	

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services	

11	6	 9	

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO estimate)	

72	72	 71	

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)	

23	20	 18	

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births	

36	

Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

94	98	 97	

Individuals using the Internet (% of population)	

2	

19	

35	

13	

73	

Access to electricity (% population)	

100b	100	 100	

Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

5	5	 6	

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)	

86	91	 94	

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)	

93	95	 96	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2019; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. 2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/eca.
28	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

SPOTLIGHT

Promoting women’s inclusion and gender equality in
Europe and Central Asia
NO COUNTRY CAN REACH ITS POTENTIAL with a large share of its population excluded

from fully participating in the economy. However, in Europe and Central Asia, women
make up slightly less than half of the labor force and earn, on average, 30 percent less
than men. Women also have limited financial access and are less likely than men to
have formal bank accounts, hold savings at financial institutions, or obtain loans. Women
also face risks arising from domestic violence, sexual harassment at work, and job restrictions, resulting in limited voice and agency.
We help countries in the region remove the economic and social barriers that women
confront and increase their formal participation in the labor force to improve livelihoods
and boost economic growth. We developed a regional gender action plan to ensure that
our operations effectively promote gender equality. The plan focuses on three pillars:
(i) country-led strategic gender mainstreaming; (ii) research, innovation, and data generation; and (iii) communications, capacity building, and reporting.
In fiscal 2020, we committed about $5.3 billion to 42 operations in the region that identify gender gaps in their design and work to address them throughout the project cycle. In
Albania, the $10 million Gender Equality in Access to Economic Opportunities Project is
the Bank’s first development policy operation solely focused on gender. It supports efforts
to enhance gender equality policies by recognizing property ownership, creating opportunities for women to generate income, and strengthening gender-informed policy making.
In Uzbekistan, the $150 million Livestock Sector Development Project is helping integrate smallholder farms into modern supply chains to increase opportunities for women
to earn income. In Moldova, the EUR 36 million Higher Education Project is promoting
women’s enrollment in higher education programs in science, technology, engineering,
and mathematics by raising awareness and providing career guidance. These efforts have
helped address gender disparities at the local, country, and regional levels throughout
Europe and Central Asia.

	

THE REGIONS 	

29

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

LATIN AMERICA &
THE CARIBBEAN
A SERIES OF SHOCKS HIT LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN over the past

year, including social unrest, the collapse of international oil prices, and the
COVID-19 crisis. GDP growth in the region (excluding Venezuela, where there is
insufficient data) was 0.8 percent in 2019 and is expected to decline to –7.2 percent
in 2020. Growth is expected to rebound to 2.8 percent in 2021.
We aim to protect the gains made during the region’s profound social transformation in the first decade of the 21st century, when the commodity boom and
widespread growth cut poverty rates in half. Between 2003 and 2016, the share of
the population living in extreme poverty fell from 24.5 percent to 9.9 percent. Since
then, however, economic prospects have dimmed, and many people are at risk of
slipping back into poverty. These risks are further exacerbated by the pandemic.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $7.8 billion in lending to
In fiscal 2020,
the region for 67 operations in fiscal 2020, including in response to COVID-19,
$6.8 billion in IBRD commitments and $1.0 billion
the Bank approved 10 new
in IDA commitments. We signed six Reimbursoperations ($215 million)
and redirected funding
able Advisory Services agreements with two
from
17 existing projects
countries for a total of $2 million.
($703 million) for Latin
Our work in the region centers on three
America and the Caribbean
pillars. The first pillar focuses on inclusive growth
under the global Strategic
by promoting greater productivity, competitivePreparedness and
ness, transparency, and accountability; engaging
Response Program.
with traditionally excluded groups, including Indigenous peoples, Afro-descendants, and rural communities; and attracting private investment. The second pillar emphasizes investing in
human capital to prepare people for challenges and opportunities that come with
the changing nature of work. The third pillar seeks to build resilience so that countries can better manage and withstand shocks, such as natural disasters, economic
upheaval, migration, crime and violence, and infectious diseases.

Promoting inclusive growth
We are committed to promoting inclusive economic and social growth by increasing productivity, fostering accountability, and creating opportunities. We helped
Mexico increase the connectivity of its biological corridors to conserve and protect the country’s biodiversity. This effort conserved more than 81,000 hectares through biodiversity-friendly practices, benefited nearly 13,000 producers,
helped create over 42 business alliances with buyers, and established standards
for biodiversity-friendly goods. In Honduras, the $30 million Rural Competitiveness Project helped boost productivity and competitiveness among small-scale
TABLE 8 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2018–20
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY18	 FY19	FY20	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY18	FY19	FY20

IBRD	 3,898	 5,709	6,798	 4,066	4,847	5,799
IDA	 428	 430	978	 223	340	466
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2020: $31.0 billion.

30	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

producers by helping them engage in productive alliances. These producers saw an
estimated 28 percent increase in incomes as a result, benefiting 7,200 rural families. In Colombia, Bank-supported policy reforms decreased air pollution in major
cities by 24 percent, increased clean energy production in rural areas, and improved
access to clean water for half a million people.

Investing in human capital
We seek to ensure that everyone has access to the health and education they need
to prosper and take advantage of the opportunities provided by inclusive growth and
a rapidly changing jobs market. We helped improve education and health services
in Haiti, which increased access to quality education for 240,000 children and to
maternal and child health services for more than 1.2 million people. Our interventions also led to a significant interruption in cholera transmission—since January
2019, no laboratory-confirmed cases have been recorded. In Brazil, we strengthened the Bolsa Família conditional cash-transfer program, which benefited nearly
47 million people. The program also contributed to higher rates of school attendance, which reached 91 percent.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we approved new projects in Argentina, Ecuador, Haiti, and Paraguay, totaling $100 million, as part of the Bank
Group’s fast-track facility. These interventions aim at minimizing loss of life and
strengthening health systems. Additional responses included the activation of
Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Options in Colombia, the Dominican Republic,
Honduras, and Panama.

Building resilience
The COVID-19 pandemic highlights the need to build resilience to future pandemics
and health crises. In May 2020, we approved a $500 million development policy loan
to help Ecuador respond to the pandemic, eliminate constraints to private sector
development, support economic recovery, and promote public sector efficiency and
fiscal sustainability for the long term.
Latin America and the Caribbean also faces the highest frequency of natural disasters in the world, a vulnerability that climate change makes even more
challenging. To address this, we focus on building better infrastructure that can
weather storms and other disasters. In the Dominican Republic, we improved the
quality of sanitation services for nearly 143,000 people through investments in new
sewerage, wastewater treatment, and disposal infrastructure. In Haiti, we helped
improve infrastructure and disaster preparedness, expand electricity access for
more than 233,000 people, and build all-weather roads that will benefit more than
2 million people. The project also provided access to safer drinking water for more
than 60,000 people.
FIGURE 4 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2020
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.8 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

9%

5%

6%

Transportation

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

4%

Education

3%
Social Protection

17%

18%

12%
4%
Public Administration

	

19%

3%

Energy and Extractives
Financial Sector
Health
Industry, Trade,
and Services

Information and
Communications Technologies

THE REGIONS 	

31

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Employing advisory services, technical assistance, and convening power
The Bank provides advisory services, technical assistance, and in-depth analyses
to support countries’ development goals, in addition to financing. A November
2019 report called attention to the challenges faced by countries that are absorbing the unprecedented flow of migrants from Venezuela. It provided a robust
evidence-based tool to design policies that help both migrants and host communities. In Ecuador, we joined with the UN to gather data for addressing the education
and health needs of the roughly 400,000 Venezuelan migrants in the country.
We worked with the Central America Integration System, NASA, and the UN
Office for Disaster Risk Reduction to boost resilience in Central America by highlighting the links between governance, urban planning, climate change, and disaster risk
management. In cooperation with the Inter-American Development Bank, we helped
Honduras update its methodology for measuring poverty, paving the way for better
targeting of social protection programs. In Colombia, our advisory services improved
the management of the country’s education system and increased parental participation. In February 2020, we also hosted the Understanding Risk Central America
Conference in Costa Rica, which brought together over 700 participants from 22
countries to promote innovations in disaster risk management and resilience.

TABLE 9 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN: REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	2010	 DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

493	

Population growth (annual %)	

559	

614	

1.5	

1.1	

0.9	

4,021	

7,832	

8,355	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

2.3	

4.8	

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	

63b	36	 28	

GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	

(0.1)	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

75	

77	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

68	

71	

72	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

1,237	

1,562	

1,658	

Extreme poverty (% population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

78	

11.9b	6.2	 4.4	

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services	

22	7	10	

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO estimate)	

60	66	 68	

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)	

36	33	 34	

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births	

33	

Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

98	100	 99	

Individuals using the Internet (% of population)	

25	

17	

3	

34	

66	

Access to electricity (% population)	

91	

96	

98	

Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

28	29	 28	

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)	

72	81	 86	

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)	

90	94	 96	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2019; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. 2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/lac.

32	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

SPOTLIGHT

Responding to the Venezuelan migrant crisis
THE LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGION has seen an unprecedented refugee

exodus as a result of the humanitarian, economic, and social crisis in Venezuela. By
the end of 2019, almost 5 million people had left the country. About 80 percent of
those migrants remained in other countries across the region, mainly Colombia (1.6 million), Peru (863,300), and Ecuador (385,000).
The Bank is working to support the migrants and host communities through analysis,
technical support, and financial resources. We also work to share knowledge and mobilize
our convening power around this crisis, including through the Quito process on the margins of the UN General Assembly, a TEDx-sponsored event in Peru, and several high-profile
Bank events.
In Colombia, we prepared the country’s first impact assessment of the Venezuelan
migration to inform a national response policy and the Colombia National Development
Plan. In January 2019, Colombia became eligible for the Global Concessional Financing
Facility (GCFF). The Bank is providing a $750 million development policy loan that mobilized $32 million in GCFF co-financing to support Colombia’s fiscal sustainability and
­competitiveness amid the migration crisis. We are also supporting a health project, composed of a $150 million Bank loan and $38 million in GCFF financing, to strengthen the
country’s health care system and support enrollment of migrants and refugees into the
social security system.
In November 2019, we launched a similar analysis of the impacts of Venezuelan migration in Peru. Along with UN agencies, we helped finance a national survey of the migrants
and refugees by the National Institute of Statistics and Information, and supported other
institutional, sectoral, and qualitative analysis. Given the disproportional impact of the
COVID-19 pandemic on migrants and refugees, we are mobilizing resources to address
their increasing needs, including through technical assistance to the government.
We are also completing a fiscal impact analysis of Venezuelan migration in Ecuador. In
collaboration with six UN agencies, we designed, implemented, and financed a national
survey and focus groups to support the analysis of host and migrant communities. Ecuador also became eligible for the GCFF in 2019 and accessed $6 million in concessional
financing in May 2020.

	

THE REGIONS 	

33

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA
GROWTH IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA contracted by 0.2 percent in
2019 and is expected to contract by 4.2 percent in 2020, although there is considerable
­uncertainty about this projection amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the associated collapse
in global oil prices and tourism, and declining remittances. Output from the region’s
developing-country oil exporters is expected to contract by 5.0 percent, while Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) economic output is expected to fall by 4.1 percent. Reflecting a
broad-based deceleration of tourism, remittances, and other critical sources of revenue,
growth of the region’s oil importers is expected to contract by 0.8 percent.
In a region where two-thirds of the population is under 35, the rate of unemployed
youth stood at nearly 25 percent even before the pandemic. Nearly half of the region’s
population (42 percent) lives on an income below $5.50 per day. Extreme poverty
(defined as living on an income below $1.90 per day) doubled from 2.4 percent in 2011
to 4.2 percent in 2015 due to conflicts and unequal access to education and basic infrastructure. The trend is expected to worsen as a result of COVID-19.
The expected costs of the pandemic are about 3.7 percent of the region’s 2019
GDP, equivalent to well over $100 billion. In Yemen, the ongoing conflict is adding
stress on the low-capacity health care system and increasing poverty, further compli­
cating the response.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $3.6 billion in lending to the region
In fiscal 2020, in
for 22 operations in fiscal 2020, including $3.4 billion
response to COVID-19,
in IBRD commitments and $203 million in IDA committhe Bank approved seven
ments. Another $103 million were provided for projects
new operations ($177 million)
supporting the West Bank and Gaza. We delivered
and redirected funding from
140 Advisory Services and Analytics products,
10 existing projects ($464
and revenue from Reimbursable Advisory Services
million) for the Middle East
agreements reached $65 million. The expanded
and North Africa under
advisory program continues to provide ongoing supthe global Strategic
port to the reform process in the GCC countries.
Preparedness and
We are helping countries in the region stabilize their
Response Program.
economies in response to the multiple shocks caused by
COVID-19, the collapse of global oil prices, and slowdowns
in local economic activity. We remain committed to helping countries transform their
growth models by pursuing structural reforms that open up markets and create more
and better economic opportunities for the region’s large youth population. We are doing
this by helping countries harness human capital, leverage digital technologies, and
create competitive markets. We also support peace and stability in the region by helping
strengthen the social contract between citizens and governments, supporting regional
markets, and strengthening resilience to prevent and mitigate the effects of conflict
and climate change.

Renewing the social contract
The World Bank seeks to reinforce the bonds between citizens and the state by expanding employment and economic opportunities in the private sector, promoting citizen
TABLE 10 MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2018–20
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY18	 FY19	FY20	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY18	FY19	FY20

IBRD	 5,945	 4,872	3,419	 3,281	4,790	2,415
IDA	 430	 611	 203	 569	647	 151
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2020: $20.1 billion.

34	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

engagement, empowering vulnerable groups, improving public services, and strengthening governance. In Tunisia, the Bank provided $100 million to help the government
leverage digital technologies and improve service delivery in social protection and education. The project aims to ensure that vulnerable populations—such as low-income
groups, women in rural areas, people who are illiterate, and those with disabilities—have
access to these services and that government systems enable greater citizen feedback to
improve accountability. In Jordan, the $200 million Youth, Technology, and Jobs Project,
which includes $37 million in financing from the Global Concessional Financing Facility,
aims to increase young people’s access to jobs and expand digital government services.
It seeks to capitalize on Jordan’s potential to grow its digital economy and absorb
skilled labor to support economic growth and job creation. In the West Bank and Gaza, a
$9 million project will help the Palestinian Authority invest in early childhood development by supporting prenatal care for pregnant women, child nutrition and growth monitoring, and early learning opportunities. This will include interventions to expand access
to and enhance the quality of kindergarten education for Palestinian children.
In February 2020, the Bank launched the report Convergence: Five Critical Steps
Toward Integrating Lagging and Leading Areas in the Middle East and North Africa. It found
that enhancing opportunities and social services in areas that are economically distant
from large metropolitan centers is key for faster economic growth and social inclusion.

Expanding regional cooperation
The Middle East and North Africa remains the world’s least economically integrated
region, with intraregional trade accounting for only 10 percent of total trade. The Bank
focuses on developing regional markets by leveraging the region’s resources, labor, and
capital. With support from the Arab Coordination Group and other partners, we are helping establish a regional energy market; the first phase is the Pan-Arab Electricity Market, which aims to connect countries’ electricity grids. This regional energy market, once
fully interconnected and developed, would be the second largest after that of Europe. We
are also expanding regional cooperation and fostering economic integration through the
Horn of Africa Initiative, which is currently chaired by Djibouti and also includes Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Kenya, and Somalia.

Strengthening resilience to shocks
Climate vulnerabilities and the spillovers of conflict continue to exact a heavy toll in the
region. The Bank is helping countries strengthen their capacities to respond to these
shocks. In Morocco, a $275 million project will help the country strengthen its capacity to
manage the financial impact of natural disasters and climate-related shocks and upgrade
its institutional framework for disaster risk management.
The Bank is supporting countries as they respond to the COVID-19 pandemic with
emergency operations that focus on securing essential medical supplies for health systems. This support includes financing, policy advice, and technical assistance to help
countries cope with urgent health needs and slow the spread of the disease. We are
also working with partners to provide relief to individuals, communities, and businesses
across the region to help stabilize incomes and spur economic recovery.
FIGURE 5 MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2020
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $3.6 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

<1% <1%
3%

Social Protection

Education

<1% Energy and Extractives

31%

5%
17%

17%
Public Administration

	

17%

9%

Financial Sector
Health

Industry, Trade,
and Services

Information and
Communications Technologies

THE REGIONS 	

35

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Promoting recovery and reconstruction
We provide life-saving development assistance to communities devastated by conflict.
This includes our program in Yemen, which has been enduring conflict since early 2015.
Already the region’s poorest country before the conflict, Yemen is now suffering the
worst humanitarian crisis in the world, according to the UN. Fighting has devastated
its economy, destroyed critical infrastructure, and led to food insecurity that is verging
on famine. The country’s prospects are further threatened by the spread of COVID-19,
extensive flooding, and locusts, all of which are pushing Yemen closer to catastrophe.
Our work here focuses on protecting livelihoods and supporting recovery by boosting
institutional capacity, improving service delivery, providing assistance to the poor and
vulnerable, creating temporary jobs, and supporting the private sector. In partnership
with the UN, we have provided $1.8 billion to finance these efforts.
The Bank continues to support reconstruction efforts in Iraq, where the Emergency
Operation for Development Project is helping restore services and infrastructure in the
country’s second largest city, Mosul, home to 4 million people. The efforts include the
reconstruction of three bridges, which has reinstated access to health and education
services, markets, and businesses for 1.5 million people and created employment opportunities. The project is also supplying and installing generators and cables to help restore
electricity connections to 1 million people and businesses.

TABLE 11 MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA: REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	2010	 DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

279	

333	

389	

1.8	

1.8	

1.7	

1,568	

3,993	

3,861	

2.6	

3.4	

1.2	

Population growth (annual %)	
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	
Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	

10b	7	 28	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

71	

74	

76	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

68	

70	

72	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

873	

1,282	

1,475	

Extreme poverty (% population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

3.4b	2.0	

7.2	

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services	

12	6	10 	

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO estimate)	

24	26	 26	

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)	

35	32	 31	

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births	

45	

Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

81	89	 90	

29	

24	

Individuals using the Internet (% of population)	

<1	

21	

60	

Access to electricity (% population)	

89	

96	

96	

Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

3	3	 3	

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)	

82	86	 89	

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)	

86	91	 93	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2019; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. 2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/mena.

36	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

SPOTLIGHT

Closing the human capital gap in Egypt
THE WORLD BANK GROUP’S MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA HUMAN CAPITAL PLAN

seeks to improve outcomes through priority interventions, such as expanding investments
in early childhood development, addressing learning poverty, improving skills, reducing
the impact of non-communicable diseases, protecting vulnerable groups, strengthening
resilience to crises, and closing gaps in learning for boys and in labor-force participation
for girls. Supporting the regional approach are country-specific plans that focus on key
challenges at the country level and identify areas for Bank Group support. Egypt, an early
adopter of the approach, illustrates how countries in the region can raise the quality of
health and education services and expand the reach of social safety nets.
The $500 million Supporting Egypt Education Reform Project aims to improve teaching and learning conditions in schools. It is helping increase access to quality kindergarten
education, enhance the capacity of teachers and education leaders, develop a reliable student assessment system, and expand the use of modern technology and digital learning
resources in teaching and learning. The project’s goal is to have 500,000 new students
enrolled in kindergarten, with 50 percent from the poorest districts; teachers applying
better practices; 2 million students benefiting from the new assessment system; and a
reformed secondary school graduation system focused on building skills.
Meanwhile, we provided additional financing of $500 million for a second phase of the
Strengthening Social Safety Nets Project, which supports Egypt’s national cash transfer
program. This program is the largest cash transfer operation in the Middle East and North
Africa and among Egypt’s most significant investments in promoting human capital. It has
reached over 3 million households to date, representing more than 8 million individuals,
with over 67 percent of the cash directed to the poor and vulnerable and 74 percent of
program cardholders being women. As part of these efforts, the Takaful program provides
conditional, monthly family income support to protect poor households from the shortterm negative impacts of economic reforms and shocks. It also encourages families to
keep children in school and provides health care, including pre- and postnatal health services and the monitoring of children’s growth. The complementary Karama program provides monthly unconditional cash assistance to poor elderly citizens, people with severe
disabilities and diseases, and orphans. Under the latest round of financing, the government is also preparing an initiative that will help promote livelihoods and boost economic
inclusion across eight governorates.
In addition, we are providing $400 million to support Egypt’s health insurance system as the country works to achieve universal health coverage and improve outcomes.
The project will help the government establish the foundation for universal health insurance, pilot it, and offer temporary financial protection to help the most vulnerable pay
for expenses related to COVID-19. This builds on ongoing efforts to improve services at
primary health care facilities and hospitals, support family planning, scale up a community health workers program, and facilitate screenings for hepatitis C, non-communicable
diseases, and other risk factors.
In March 2020, the Bank activated $8 million from the contingency emergency
response component of this project to fund emergency response to the COVID-19 outbreak in Egypt, including implementation of a preventive plan to confront the pandemic.
This comes in addition to a $50 million project that was launched under the Bank Group’s
Fast-Track Facility for COVID-19, which aims to strengthen the prevention, detection, and
response to the pandemic.

	

THE REGIONS 	

37

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

SOUTH ASIA
IN 2020, AMID THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC FALLOUT triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic, South Asia is experiencing its worst economic performance in the past 40 years.
Regional growth is projected to contract by 2.7 percent in 2020, down from a previously
projected growth rate of 6.3 percent. This negative forecast is expected to linger into
2021, with growth expected to hover around 2.5 percent.
Fast growth in past years led to declining poverty and impressive improvements in
health and education. But as of 2015, the proportion of people living on less than $1.90 a
day was still an estimated 12.4 percent, or about 216 million people—a third of the global
poor. South Asia is expected to see the largest increase in the number of extreme poor as
a result of the COVID-19 crisis. Multidimensional poverty in South Asia is also higher than
the global average, and many countries suffer from extreme forms of social exclusion and
significant infrastructure gaps. The region has also seen one of the largest refugee inflows
in modern times, with more than 740,000 Rohingya refugees fleeing to Bangladesh since
August 2017, according to UN estimates.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $11.7 billion in lending to the
In fiscal 2020,
region for 61 operations in fiscal 2020, including $5.6
in response to COVID-19,
billion in IBRD commitments and $6.1 billion in IDA
the Bank approved nine
commitments. We also delivered 122 advisory sernew operations ($1.7 billion)
vices and analytical products to eight countries,
and redirected funding from
totaling $83 million, providing technical advice on
10 existing projects ($110
issues such as energy sector reform, female labor
million) for South Asia
force participation, and climate change.
under the global Strategic
We emphasize promoting sustainable and inclusive
Preparedness and
growth, investing in people, and strengthening resilience.
Response Program.
Our assistance focuses on supporting policy reforms for
private sector–led job creation; addressing stunting in child
development; increasing female labor force participation; supporting refugees, returnees, and internally displaced persons; and addressing climate risks through disaster preparedness and management.
As part of our support to countries’ responses to COVID-19, we are helping them
purchase vital protective equipment and medical supplies, provide learning to children,
deliver cash transfers and food to the most vulnerable, support small and medium businesses, create jobs, and strengthen institutions for a more resilient recovery.

Supporting sustainable growth and creating jobs
As it paves the way for recovery, South Asia can sustain high growth only if investments
and exports both grow stronger. With an estimated 1.5 million people entering the job
market every month over the next two decades, job creation is essential. A $120 million
project in Nepal will improve employment services and labor market outcomes for nearly
100,000 youth, especially women. In Pakistan, an additional $700 million for the Dasu
Hydropower Project will help lower the overall cost of the country’s energy generation,
benefiting millions of users and making electricity more affordable. The hydropower plant
TABLE 12 SOUTH ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2018–20
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY18	 FY19	FY20	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY18	FY19	FY20

IBRD	 4,508	 4,011	5,565	 1,698	2,598	3,158
IDA	
6,153	 4,849	6,092	 3,835	 4,159	 5,235
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2020: $58.3 billion.

38	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

will provide most of its electricity during the summer months, when demand is highest,
helping reduce blackouts. In Afghanistan, a $99 million financing package is supporting
two gas-to-power energy projects to increase the amount of electricity generated domestically while leveraging private financing for the energy sector. This package includes IDA
guarantees and financing from the IDA18 Private Sector Window and leverages IFC loans
and MIGA guarantees.
In India, a $210 million project in the state of Maharashtra will help smallholder
farmers access emerging domestic and export markets, increase private sector investment in agricultural value chains, increase productivity, respond to price fluctuations,
and build crop resilience. It will be implemented in all 36 state districts and benefit over
1 million farming households. At least 43 percent of participating farmers and workers
are expected to be women.

Investing in people and supporting inclusive growth
To boost human capital as a driver of growth, the Bank is helping the region improve
access to and quality of education, address childhood stunting and malnutrition,
strengthen health systems and services, and expand safety nets to protect the poorest
people. In Pakistan, we committed $436 million to improve health and education services and social protection for poor and vulnerable households in Balochistan, Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa, and Punjab. These projects will increase the quality and uptake of health
services, improve early childhood education, provide learning opportunities for children
in primary and secondary school, and establish more efficient economic and social inclusion programs. In December 2019, we also convened the 100-day “Girls Learn, Women
Earn” campaign, which focused on creating better learning and employment opportunities for Pakistani girls and women.
In Bangladesh, the $100 million Municipal Water Supply and Sanitation Project will
help provide access to cleaner water sources and sanitation services for at least 600,000
people. It will also support hand-washing stations in several municipalities to improve
hygiene, both as part of the effort to address COVID-19 and for the longer term.

Fostering resilience to conflict and climate change
Conflict and fragility risks are increasing in South Asia, resulting in greater displacement.
We are working with partners to provide basic services to the displaced and hosting
communities. In Bangladesh, we approved three operations totaling $350 million to help
address the needs of host communities and displaced Rohingya. Through three projects,
we will provide nearly 4 million people with access to health, nutrition, and family planning
services and address gender-based violence through preventive and response services.
The region is also highly vulnerable to climate impacts, including natural disasters
and rising sea levels and temperatures. Addressing this requires building resilience at the
local level. In India, an $80 million project will improve water management and increase
agricultural productivity for more than 400,000 smallholder farmers, women, and pastoral communities in Himachal Pradesh. For the first time in South Asia, we extended a
$10 million Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT-DDO), which will help Maldives
FIGURE 6 SOUTH ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2020
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $11.7 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management
Transportation

Social Protection
Public Administration
Information and
Communications Technologies

	

7%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

4%
7%

15%

Education

8%

Energy and Extractives

7%

Financial Sector

17%

Health

15%
7%
2%

11%

Industry, Trade, and Services

THE REGIONS 	

39

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

mitigate the risks and vulnerabilities associated with COVID-19. In Bhutan, $15 million
in financing with a CAT-DDO will support reforms to manage climate and disaster risks,
including disease outbreaks. In Nepal, we provided an additional $200 million to the
Earthquake Housing Reconstruction Project. This will fund nearly 87,000 more houses
in 32 districts affected by the 2015 earthquakes and provide grants for families to ensure
rebuilt housing is earthquake resistant. In India, a $400 million project will help the government develop an institutional framework to manage the Ganga river basin and finance
investments that address pollution in the basin’s urban areas.

Promoting regional integration
The Bank supports cross-border trade, transport and energy connectivity, long-term
water security, environmental sustainability, and resilience in South Asia, which remains
one of the world’s least economically integrated regions. In Bangladesh, a $500 million
program will expand and enhance a 260-kilometer national highway to support greater
regional trade and help improve the livelihoods of over 20 million people in rural areas. A
$50 million regional project will support a partnership to fight plastic pollution in transboundary river systems and the region’s shared seas.
Our report Unleashing E-Commerce for South Asian Integration analyzed how
e-commerce can become a driver of growth and boost trade. By increasing the use of
e-commerce, the region could help increase competition and firms’ productivity, increase
market access, and strengthen commercial linkages between countries.
TABLE 13 SOUTH ASIA: REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	2010	 DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	
Population growth (annual %)	
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	
Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	

1,391	

1,639	

1.9	

1.4	

1.2 	

446	

1,153	

2,019	

2.1	

6.2	

3.6	

556 	404	
b

1,836	

275	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

64	

68	

71	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

62	

66	

68	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

1,181	

1,978	

2,737	

Extreme poverty (% population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

38.5b	24.6	

16.1	

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services	

15	3	 5	

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO estimate)	

36	33	 31	

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)	

80	78	 70	

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births	

94	

Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

69	87	 92	

Individuals using the Internet (% of population)	

<1	

7	

30	

Access to electricity (% population)	

57	

73	

92	

Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

53	42	 38	

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)	

20	43	 59	

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)	

80	87	 92	

62	

42	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2019; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. 2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/sar.

40	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

SPOTLIGHT

Sustaining Afghanistan’s development achievements 
OVER THE PAST TWO DECADES, Afghanistan has achieved impressive development

gains under challenging circumstances. The country has made progress in delivering public services, reducing infant mortality, improving enrollment in education, and expanding
access to electricity. However, Afghanistan has been hit hard by COVID-19, compounding the challenges of continued insecurity and political uncertainty. Economic growth is
expected to drop sharply in 2020, with the vast majority of the country’s population falling
below the poverty line due to the pandemic’s severe impacts on incomes and jobs.  
Continued international aid is vital to support Afghanistan’s recovery and protect
development gains. The Bank is a major development partner, providing support to the
poorest people and helping the government build and strengthen institutions. This partnership includes our work administering the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund on
behalf of 34 donors.
At the onset of COVID-19, we fast-tracked financial assistance to mitigate the pan­
demic’s health, social, and economic impacts. A $100 million emergency project is
enhancing health service delivery and providing personal protective equipment and medicines to health workers and patients. A $200 million emergency project, co-financed by
IDA and the trust fund, is supporting faster recovery and keeping basic infrastructure—
such as water, electricity, and telecommunications—up and running.
Beyond the pandemic, projects co-financed by the trust fund are helping improve
health and education outcomes and protect livelihoods across the country. Through the
Eqra Project, we are working to expand access to primary and secondary education, particularly for girls. A separate project is helping improve the quality and relevance of higher
education; as a result, between 2015 and 2020, enrollment in key disciplines, such as
economics and law, increased from 64,200 to 81,900. We are also improving access and
quality for health, nutrition, and family planning services. In agriculture, projects we support have helped rehabilitate nearly 200 irrigation schemes, benefiting 425,000 farmer
households; financed more than 35,500 hectares of new pistachio and fruit orchards
in 34 provinces; rehabilitated 32,000 hectares of existing orchards; and established
143,000 kitchen gardening programs.
There is still a long way to go. The coming years will be critical in helping the country’s
institutions strengthen their capacity to deliver basic services. Working with donor countries through the trust fund, we will continue to play a key role in safeguarding Afghanistan’s development gains.

	

THE REGIONS 	

41

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

42	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

APPLYING E XPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS
FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR PRESENCE in countries is strengthened by our

sectoral expertise and by knowledge and research programs that offer insights to
help countries solve pressing development challenges. Our global practices work
with country staff, partners, and other Bank Group institutions to provide com­
prehensive financial, operational, advisory, and convening support. We draw on
experience and technical knowledge that spans regions and sectors, facilitating
the exchange of ideas and best practices between countries and offering a uniquely
global, cross-cutting view of leading development issues.
We share our research through publications, in-depth analysis, and open development data. Our flagship reports—widely referenced by governments, civil society
organizations, partners, and the private sector—help drive the discourse on challenges at the global, regional, and country levels. Our tailored analytic products offer
detailed assessments of priority concerns for clients and development partners. By
promoting access to wide-ranging data and insights, we help countries monitor
progress and make informed decisions when implementing projects.
We are applying this sectoral knowledge through broad, fast action that is helping
countries respond to COVID-19. We are also drawing on our experience in supporting
countries through previous crises, including natural disasters, infectious diseases,
and economic shocks. Our support aims to help countries develop comprehensive
and tailored responses to the challenges arising from the pandemic, covering a
range of issues including health care, education, social protection, sanitation, digital
services, and food security. We seek to protect hard-earned development gains and
ensure that countries are able to secure good development outcomes for their people as they recover from the unprecedented crisis.

Reducing poverty amid global challenges
Despite great strides in recent decades, the world was not on track to reach the
goal of ending poverty by 2030, even before the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
We estimate that the pandemic could push about 100 million more people into
extreme poverty. A large share of this will be concentrated in countries that are
already struggling with high poverty rates, but middle-income countries will also
be significantly affected. We are helping countries respond by providing them
with the data, policy advice, and financial resources they need to protect people
and businesses from the impacts of this crisis and build resilience.
To alleviate extreme poverty more broadly, we need more and better data,
especially from the poorest countries and those affected by fragility and conflict.
Building on previous efforts, IDA19 includes new commitments to help countries
scale up and improve their data collection. The Bank Group’s Data for Policy
initiative supports a core set of economic, social, and sustainability statistics that
are required to monitor and evaluate public policies and programs. It also aims to
improve the availability and quality of gender- and sex-disaggregated statistics in
IDA countries to inform policy making.

	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

43

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

Ensuring debt sustainability and transparency
Debt financing is critical for development and, when used wisely, can help countries finance major projects and achieve sustained and inclusive growth. Our work
on public debt focuses on three core areas: promoting debt transparency, enabling
effective debt and fiscal risk management, and addressing debt vulnerabilities.
Rising indebtedness had begun resurfacing as a risk across emerging and
­developing economies even prior to the spread of COVID-19. In addition to managing
new vulnerabilities arising from the pandemic, the Bank Group continues to work
with the IMF and client countries to analyze and assess debt levels through the Debt
Sustainability Framework.
In April 2020, the Bank, along with the IMF, called for the suspension of bilateral debt service payments from IDA countries to ensure they have the liquidity
needed to tackle the challenges posed by COVID-19 and to allow for an assessment
of their financing needs. Leaders of the G20 nations endorsed the Debt Service
Suspension Initiative suspending bilateral debt service payments by poor countries beginning May 1, 2020. In June 2020, we disclosed new information on the
creditor country composition of projected annual debt service payments of all
73 countries eligible for relief under this initiative through an online portal that
highlights the potential savings for each eligible country, both in dollar terms and
as a percentage of GDP.
We published two important analytical pieces in fiscal 2020 to help measure the
level of rising debt in developing countries and propose solutions. Global Waves of
Debt, published in December 2019, shed light on the fast and broad buildup of debt
in developing countries since 2010 and offered policy options to reduce the likelihood of a crisis and alleviate the impact if crises take place. The Evolution of Public
Debt Vulnerabilities in Lower-Income Economies, published in February 2020 with
the IMF, assessed emerging debt issues in lower-income economies since 2017 and
identified key risks. We also developed a crisis-response policy framework to provide
support on public debt management and government securities markets for developing countries affected by the pandemic.
To finance their development needs, countries need to raise funds from domestic resources. However, in more than a third of the world’s poorest countries, tax-toGDP ratios are below the estimated 15 percent that is deemed necessary to carry
out basic state functions. We help developing countries mobilize domestic resources
by broadening and deepening their tax bases. This can lessen their dependence on
external funding—such as international aid, development assistance, and foreign
borrowing—while also catalyzing broader improvements in government accountability, responsiveness, and institutional capacity.
Somalia is one country where sustained support has helped increase revenue
collection in a fragile state. Since 2015, the Bank Group has provided support on
tax policy administration and taxpayer education to improve voluntary compliance. During this period, revenue collection more than doubled, from $76 million in
2013 to $183 million in 2018, exceeding targets. And in March 2020, the Bank
Group and the IMF determined the country had taken the necessary steps to begin
receiving debt relief under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
Initiative. Somalia is the 37th country to reach this milestone, known as the HIPC
Decision Point.

Tackling corruption and promoting good governance
We work with countries to strengthen their governance and institutions and fight
systemic corruption. We help governments strengthen public financial management, improve judicial services, train the civil service bureaucracy, invest in financial information systems, expand access to information for the public, and reduce
opportunities for administrative corruption, such as bribery. We are also developing
new tools to monitor and measure illicit financial flows at the country and regional

44	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

levels. With the COVID-19 crisis further highlighting the importance of a strong public sector, we have also prepared policy notes and a tracking portal to help countries strengthen the resilience of their governance and institutions as part of their
response to the pandemic.
Weak capacity in developing countries can lead to less fiscal space, inefficient procurement, and poor services as well as increase the risk of corruption. Technology
can boost government efficiency, transparency, responsiveness, and citizen trust.
Our GovTech Global Partnership and the GovTech Multidonor Trust Fund (established with support from Austria and the Republic of Korea) seek to use technology to strengthen government operations, service delivery, and citizen engagement.
These initiatives will allow us to deepen our work on a global scale, help countries
modernize public administration, and support our IDA commitment to promote
­simple, accessible, and efficient government—all of which have become even more
critical in light of COVID-19.
We are strengthening and broadening our approach to anticorruption. The rapid
allocation of resources to address COVID-19 may heighten corruption risks, which
can erode public trust in governments’ responses to the pandemic. To help countries
implement a more intensive approach against corruption, we have developed a new
initiative and action plan to reaffirm and reenergize our commitment to anticorruption work. These efforts provide assessments of the challenges that governments
face in tackling corruption, instruments that can be effective in addressing them,
and the ways progress is being achieved in individual countries.
Sound public procurement enhances integrity and efficiency in public spending.
The Bank provides fiduciary oversight and support, helps governments prepare and
implement projects, and advises governments on policy and operational reforms
to strengthen procurement systems. Through an international collaborative effort,
we are leading a new assessment methodology to accelerate the implementation
of modern, efficient, sustainable, and more inclusive procurement. In fiscal 2020,
we conducted 16 such assessments in Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, China, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Djibouti, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Kazakhstan, Lebanon, Malawi, Moldova, Mozambique, Rwanda, Tunisia, and Zambia. We also support
e-procurement implementation and other emerging initiatives, such as artificial
intelligence and data analytics. Under IDA19, the Bank will help at least half of IDA
countries establish e-procurement systems and conduct detailed procurement data
analytics, enhancing public spending efficiency, transparency, and integrity.
Following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we mobilized quickly to help
countries by working with suppliers to share aggregate demand estimates and
developing a streamlined procedure to procure medical supplies and equipment.
This entailed applying emergency fast-track procurement, addressing supply
chain constraints for medical supplies and equipment, and managing the impact
of COVID-19 on non-emergency procurement and contract execution.

Unleashing the economic power of women
The world has narrowed the divide between men and women, especially in primary
education and health, yet critical gaps remain. Evidence shows that if women had
the same lifetime earnings as men, global wealth could increase by $172 trillion. But
major development challenges affect boys, girls, men, and women differently due to
discriminatory laws and policies, along with gender and social norms that influence
their roles and responsibilities.
The Bank Group’s Gender Strategy for 2016–23 builds on past progress and
reflects changes in the global landscape as well as evidence of what works to
close gaps between men and women in health, education, social protection, jobs,
assets, and voice and agency. New commitments under IDA19 accelerate momentum in areas such as land rights, higher-productivity employment in infrastructure, digital employment, financial services, and efforts to stop and respond to
gender-based violence.

	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

45

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

Closing gender gaps and empowering women can help set countries on a sustainable path to more diversified economies, higher productivity, and better prospects for the future. In South Asia, the Women in Power Sector Professional Network
(WePower) is working to increase the low share of women working in the energy sector. In Ghana, we are helping close gender gaps in access to financial services, in part
by upgrading ICT platforms to support digital financial services and reach underserved populations. In the Central African Republic, the Health System Support and
Strengthening Project is raising the quality of essential health services while supporting services for survivors of gender-based violence, including clinical services,
safe spaces, and mental health and socioeconomic support.
The Bank also houses the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (We-Fi),
which helps women in developing countries gain access to financing, markets, and
networks for their businesses, and reduces regulatory and legal barriers to their
success. As one of We-Fi’s implementing partners, the Bank Group is implementing 27 projects in 24 countries through a $75 million program, including $26 million
through the Bank and $49 million through IFC. In Pakistan, we are strengthening the
local entrepreneurship ecosystem, helping build the capacity of local incubators to
offer better programs and train women entrepreneurs.
In the Middle East and North Africa, a Bank partnership with UPS will help some
750 women expand their businesses across borders through access to e-commerce
platforms, learning opportunities, and tailored assistance and coaching. And in Bangladesh, we organized trainings for more than 100 women entrepreneurs, while 15
corporations have made pledges to work with women’s small and medium enterprises in the supply chain.
The Bank Group’s Gender Data Portal provides open access to sex-disaggregated
data for over 600 indicators covering demographics, education, health, access to
economic opportunities, public life, and decision making. Gender Innovation Labs in
five developing regions generate evidence on what boosts gender equality and conduct rigorous impact evaluations on innovative approaches to closing gender gaps.
The Bank is also tapping business registry data to capture the percentage of women
owners, directors, and sole proprietors of limited liability corporations in 52 countries.
However, the COVID-19 pandemic threatens to reverse gains. Women often have
more tenuous forms of employment and carry most of the burden of caregiving;

Women, Business, and
the Law 2020
The sixth edition of this report analyzed
laws and regulations affecting women’s
economic inclusion in 190 economies. Its
Women, Business, and the Law Index comprises eight indicators structured around
women’s interactions with the law as they
begin, progress through, and end their
careers. The Index aligns different areas of
the law with the economic decisions that
women make at various stages of their
lives. The report updated all indicators as of
Sep­tember 2019 and built evidence on the
linkages between legal gender equality and
women’s economic inclusion.

46	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

in the crisis, they also face increased risk of gender-based violence and confront
greater reproductive health risks. Women entrepreneurs are particularly vulnerable
to the supply and demand shocks of COVID-19, as a disproportionate share of their
businesses are informal and lack access to finance and working capital.
We are working with countries to ensure that response and recovery efforts
reflect the pandemic’s different impacts on women and men. In the Solomon Islands,
the Community Access and Urban Services Enhancement Project is scaling up
short-term employment and training activities for vulnerable populations, including
women, youth, the urban poor, and many workers in the informal sector who may
have lost their main source of income. In Uganda, the Development Response to Displacement Impacts Project will monitor information on gender-based violence and
violence against children and support rapid and effective case referral.

Supporting job creation and transforming economies
Creating more and better jobs to alleviate poverty and expand opportunity
Good jobs are the surest pathway out of poverty and key to creating prosperous,
equitable societies. Over the past decade, rising labor incomes accounted for about
40 percent of the drop in poverty worldwide. However, the jobs challenge facing
much of the developing world remains immense and pressing. At the end of 2018,
more than 173 million people worldwide, disproportionately youth, were unemployed, while another 2 billion working-age adults, mostly women, remained outside
the workforce. Over the next decade, about 600 million people will be looking for
jobs. Over 65 percent of those who work—roughly another 2 billion people—engage
in informal, low-productivity jobs and do not earn enough to escape poverty. These
trends will only be further exacerbated by the economic impacts of COVID-19 with
job losses already at staggering levels in many countries.
To help overcome the jobs crisis, the Bank Group supports developing countries
in the design and implementation of integrated, multisectoral jobs strategies and
mobilizes global knowledge to help create better jobs for more people. We conduct
jobs diagnostics to help countries identify key issues at the macro, firm, and household levels. We mobilize global knowledge to identify solutions to common jobs
challenges; the latest Pathways to Better Jobs report helped identify transitions that
people follow to more productive jobs. The Bank Group helps countries implement
strategies to promote better jobs and economic transformation, with a focus on
investments in physical and human capital to raise productivity and earnings and
policies that facilitate competitiveness and trade to generate stronger market linkages and increase demand. We also design monitoring and evaluation tools to standardize how jobs outcomes are measured in projects.
IDA continues to be at the forefront of these efforts. The $82 billion financing
package for IDA19 will allow us to reinforce support for job creation and economic
transformation. It will facilitate job-creating private investments, including in quality, accessible infrastructure. It will also help expand opportunities for workers and
entrepreneurs, boost their capabilities, and connect them to jobs. As part of IDA19,
we are committed to supporting at least 12 of the IDA countries that rank lowest on
the Human Capital Index with programs or policies that improve skills and employability, emphasizing the different constraints facing young women and men. At least
60 percent of IDA19 financing operations for digital skills development will support
women’s access to higher productivity jobs, including online work, to help remove
constraints to women’s economic empowerment.
The Bank also houses several important partnerships to promote better jobs outcomes, including Solutions for Youth Employment, a multi-stakeholder alliance with
strong private sector participation, as well as the Partnership for Economic Inclusion,
which supports sustainable income growth for the poorest households and communities. We also house the Knowledge Partnership on Migration and Development
(KNOMAD), which monitors migration and remittance flows. According to its latest

	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

47

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

report, global remittances—a vital source of income for developing countries—
are projected to decline by about 20 percent in 2020, the sharpest decline in recent
history, in the economic crisis caused by COVID-19. We are working with KNOMAD
to keep remittance channels open and safeguard the poorest communities’ access
to basic needs.

Leveraging digital financial services and payment systems
to expand access
Access to affordable financial services is critical to reducing poverty, boosting
income equality, and promoting economic growth. Far too many people—65 percent of adults in developing countries—lack access to basic transaction accounts
to send or receive payments, much less the savings, insurance, and credit services
that would help them expand their businesses, mitigate risks, and plan for the future.
Digital financial services can lower costs by maximizing economies of scale and
increasing the speed, security, and transparency of transactions. They also allow for
more tailored financial services that can better serve the poor. We are working with the
public and private sectors in over 50 countries to help expand access to digital financial services by investing in infrastructure, such as mobile broadband, and by advising
on legal and regulatory frameworks to encourage the growth of these services.
In Niger, we supported the government’s efforts to better supervise microfinance
institutions, increase access points through the postal network and mobile phones,
add savings products to mobile money applications, and switch government payments from cash-based to electronic channels. In Mexico, we advised the government as it developed a law on financial technology and implemented regulations to
improve financial inclusion for households and small and medium enterprises.
We also launched the Government-to-Person Payments initiative, which provides guidance to countries seeking to digitize cash transfers and social assistance
payments to provide individual agency and choice across providers, boost financial
inclusion, and support women’s economic empowerment. The initiative comes as
governments around the world are scaling up social assistance and finding ways to
directly transfer funds to individuals. In light of COVID-19, dozens of countries are
considering direct financial transfers to households and small businesses, outside
of traditional social protection mechanisms. For those living in extreme poverty,
this immediate cash support can be life-saving. Efficient cash transfer systems can
also support recovery, rebuild livelihoods, and help prepare for future challenges. By
working with countries to modernize their payment ecosystems, we help ensure that
this assistance reaches those in need quickly and efficiently.

Doing Business 2020:
Comparing Business
Regulation in 190 Economies
The 17th edition of this annual flagship report measured the regulations that enhance business activity
and those that constrain it. It provided quantitative indicators covering 12 areas
of the business environment in 190 economies. The 2020 report aims to provide
objective data to help governments design sound business regulatory policies
and encourage research on important dimensions of the regulatory environment
for firms.

48	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

World Development Report 2020:
Trading for Development in the
Age of Global Value Chains
This flagship report pointed out that global value chains
(GVCs) can help boost growth, create better jobs, and
reduce poverty if developing countries undertake deeper reforms and industrial
countries pursue open, predictable policies. The evidence indicated that technological change is likely to be more a boon than a curse for trade and GVCs.
The benefits of participating in GVCs can be widely shared and sustainable if
all countries enhance social and environmental protections.

Facilitating trade for economic growth
Trade is an important engine of growth that creates jobs, reduces poverty, and
increases economic opportunity. Since 1990, growth underpinned by open trade has
helped over 1 billion people escape poverty. Global value chains powered this surge
and now account for almost half of all trade. Since the 2008 global financial crisis,
however, trade growth has been sluggish, and the expansion of value chains has
stalled. The 2020 World Development Report, Trading for Development in the Age of
Global Value Chains, examines the opportunities that value chains offer to countries.
It concludes that although new technologies could ultimately draw production closer
to consumers and reduce the demand for labor, technological change remains more
a boon than a curse.
To ensure that everyone benefits from trade, the Bank Group works with countries to make it faster and easier to import and export. We help them remove trade
constraints and bottlenecks, increase the predictability of transit times, and harmonize systems and procedures with international standards. As of June 2020, we
were working on trade facilitation efforts in 68 countries. In Guatemala and Hon­
duras, we helped cut the time for traders to cross the border from 10 hours to 7
minutes through an online tool that eliminates duplicate customs procedures and
paperwork at the border. In Sierra Leone, we helped upgrade the Freetown port to
the Automated System for Customs Data, the globally recognized system for customs management. With this upgrade, Sierra Leone hopes to reduce trade fees by
10 percent and simplify and reduce the number of processes traders must complete.
Maintaining trade flows during the COVID-19 pandemic is crucial in providing
access to essential food and medical items and in limiting the negative impacts on
jobs and poverty. We are providing guidance and technical assistance to help developing countries facilitate the safe and free flow of goods. In the face of medical supply shortages, we cautioned governments against protectionist measures, such as
export bans. These lead to higher prices and can prevent necessary supplies from
reaching developing countries, many of which are dependent on imports for crucial
medical supplies.

Supporting robust human capital outcomes
Human capital is the health, knowledge, capabilities, skills, and resilience that people accumulate through life. It equips them to realize their full potential and become
productive members of society and is a key driver of economic growth, poverty
reduction, and shared prosperity. Countries that invest efficiently and equitably in
building, protecting, and deploying human capital will be better prepared to compete
in a global economy that rewards higher-level cognitive skills.
The COVID-19 pandemic places a spotlight on the importance of protecting
human capital in times of crisis. Our policy note, Protecting People and Economies:
	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

49

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

Integrated Policy Responses to COVID-19, offers a series of recommendations,
including: (i) combining measures such as testing and tracing, isolation and quarantine, and treatment to contain the disease and combat the pandemic; (ii) implementing efforts to preserve jobs, ensure more sustainable business growth and job
creation, protect household income and food security, and ensure access to services for vulnerable populations; and (iii) working to maintain longer-term macroeconomic stability, build trust, communicate clearly, and rethink policy to build back
with stronger systems for people and economies.
The profound impacts of the crisis underscore the urgency of achieving universal
health coverage, establishing robust educational systems, expanding coverage of
social protection, and ensuring adaptable programs and policies, so that countries
can mitigate the effects of the shock and lay the groundwork for future resilience.

Implementing the Human Capital Project
The Human Capital Project is a global effort to accelerate more and better investments in people for greater equity and economic growth. As of the end of fiscal 2020,
the project included 77 countries across regions and income levels—reflecting broad
recognition of the importance of human capital as a key driver of economic growth,
poverty reduction, and shared prosperity. The project is mobilizing partners to
improve human capital outcomes, so that every girl and boy grows up well nourished
and ready to learn, attains real learning in school, and enters the job market as a
healthy, skilled, and productive adult.
The Bank Group is committed to helping countries improve human capital across
its advisory, analytical, operational, and research services. As countries address the
impacts of COVID-19, we are intensifying our support by mobilizing and deploying
human resources, critical supplies, and financing toward public health interventions,
nutrition, safety nets, and essential services as part of the emergency response, with
special outreach to vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, health care workers, and
those who have lost their livelihoods. We continue to help countries improve their
human capital outcomes and accelerate progress by:
•	 Implementing a new generation of multisectoral development policy operations
that focus on unlocking human capital gains by removing policy and institutional
bottlenecks, including in Madagascar, Pakistan, Peru, and Rwanda.
•	 Sharpening the focus on learning poverty (the percentage of 10-year-olds who
cannot read and understand a short text), and taking measures to address learning loss, especially amid school closures during the pandemic.
•	 Expanding universal health coverage—quality services for all without financial
hardship, including for pandemics such as COVID-19—with an emphasis on primary care for an additional 1 billion people by 2023.
•	 Putting women and girls at the center of efforts through better access to education, health services, economic opportunities, and empowerment.
•	 Prioritizing foundational investments in children’s early years to boost the lifelong
impacts of access to good health, adequate nutrition, early stimulation and learning, responsive caregiving, and safety and security.
•	 Accelerating investments to spur economic transformation, so that investments
in human capital can translate into viable livelihoods and more and better jobs.
•	 Providing analytical support to help governments prioritize expenditures in the
face of fiscal constraints and pursue a robust measurement agenda, including
tracking key human capital investments and outcomes.
We are also preparing an updated Human Capital Index with the latest available
data. These include 17 additional country profiles compared to the 2018 edition,
greater disaggregation by gender, and a trajectory of human capital data for countries over a decade to better inform policy making.
Partnerships to foster collaboration and share knowledge are also central to the
project. These include a Focal Point Network that connects government officials
50	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

around the world to share their experiences, innovative solutions, and lessons
learned, including from the fight against COVID-19. We also engage with the project’s global champions at major events, including the UN General Assembly and the
World Bank-IMF Spring and Annual Meetings, as well as with other key stakeholders.
To address the global learning crisis, we have mobilized partners, including UK Aid,
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, UNESCO, and UNICEF. We have also established
the Human Capital Umbrella, a multidonor financing mechanism to support catalytic initiatives for accelerating human capital outcomes.

Responding to the global learning crisis
The world is witnessing a learning crisis. Even prior to COVID-19, nearly 260 million
children and youth were out of school. Low-quality instruction meant many students
were learning too little. The most disadvantaged children and youth had the worst
access to schooling, the highest dropout rates, and the largest learning deficits.
At the UN General Assembly in September 2019, the Bank Group introduced a
new concept, learning poverty, which we developed in close collaboration with the
UNESCO Institute for Statistics. We found that the learning poverty rate in low- and
middle-income countries was 53 percent, meaning that over half of all 10-year-old
children could not read and understand a simple story. To galvanize action toward
education goals and tackle this crisis, we launched a new global target at the 2019
Annual Meetings to reduce the learning poverty rate by at least half by 2030.
With operations in over 80 countries, the Bank is the largest external financier
of education in developing countries. Through financing and analytical and advisory
services, we help countries build and enhance systems that provide learning for
children, youth, and those who need skills in adulthood. We currently finance over
145 education projects, ranging from early childhood development and basic and
secondary education to skills development and tertiary education.
As we help address the impacts of COVID-19, our operational response seeks to
mitigate the damage from the pandemic and use the investments made for remote
learning during the crisis as a launchpad to accelerate progress toward a more
resilient, equitable, and personalized education system. To support countries
while schools are closed, we have moved quickly to help them set up or improve
remote-learning systems, including through the effective use of print, radio, television, and mobile technology. We are also supporting nutrition for those who have lost
access to school meals. To help countries manage continuity as schools reopen and
to minimize student dropout, we are promoting learning recovery while ensuring that
schools can operate safely through health protocols and better hygiene practices;
campaigns to promote reenrollment and prevent dropouts based on early-warning
systems; school feeding programs; blended in-person and remote learning through
technology; and training to help teachers assess and remediate learning losses.
To improve and accelerate learning after reopening, we are helping countries
build resilient education systems by ensuring that learning can happen anywhere;
using data to make schools more equitable; providing personalized learning; and
offering greater support for parents, teachers, and students, including socioemotional support.
We are working closely with a consortium of partners on these efforts, including UNICEF, UNESCO, the Harvard School of Education, and the OECD. Through
project restructuring, additional financing, and new projects in nearly 60 countries, we have mobilized over $2.5 billion for education in response to COVID-19.
Examples include:
•	 In Turkey, a $160 million emergency project to help the government develop digital content for television and online channels, as well as catch-up courses and
blended teaching and learning programs. All TV-based materials will include sign
language, subtitle support, and audio transcriptions for students with hearing
or visual impairments. The project will also fund expansion of the current online
education system, as well as mental health counseling.

	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

51

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

•	 In Pakistan, a procurement plan to help the Ministry of Higher Education provide
devices to all students so that they are able to participate in remote-learning
opportunities.
•	 In Rwanda, an interactive instruction program that aims to reach 60 percent of all
students, as well as a $10 million GPE-financed project to support remote learning through television, YouTube, and the government’s e-learning platform. When
schools reopen, the project will support remedial, or catch-up, programs, including for students at risk of dropping out.
•	 In Nigeria, the restructuring of an existing project to provide 325,000 students
with interactive radio lessons, digital self-study activity packets, storybooks, and
mobile interactive quizzes, as well as support from teachers through classroombased WhatsApp groups. It will also provide digital lesson guides for parents to
support learning at home.

Ensuring accessible and quality health care
In March 2020, the Bank Group announced the COVID-19 Fast Track Facility to support countries’ response to the pandemic. This early response focused on addressing the immediate health needs of countries, including strengthening the capacity of
health systems, limiting the spread of the pandemic, boosting disease surveillance,
and supporting research to facilitate the development of vaccines and treatments.
We are also helping countries access critically needed medical supplies by reaching
out to suppliers on their behalf.
In fiscal 2020, we rapidly approved health operations to help more than 100
countries combat COVID-19. This is part of the Bank Group’s pledge to deploy up
to $160 billion over 15 months through June 2021 to help countries address their
health needs, as well as bolster economic recovery.
Our work is strengthened by our collaboration with key international partners. In
February 2020, we joined forces with the WHO and other multilateral organizations
on the COVID-19 strategic preparedness and response plan at the global and country
levels. As the trustee for the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, we
convened a multi-stakeholder task force to develop a vaccine for COVID-19 and help
ensure fair global allocation of vaccines, once available.
Even before COVID-19, we had been helping developing countries strengthen
their pandemic preparedness. Regional Disease Surveillance Systems Enhancement programs in 16 countries of West and Central Africa have been strengthening
national and regional cross-sectoral capacity for collaborative disease surveillance
and preparedness. Following the 2014–15 West Africa Ebola crisis, we helped establish the Africa Center for Disease Control and many national public health institutions. IDA has also provided $286 million in response to the 10th Ebola epidemic
in the DRC, which began in August 2018. We also supported the East Africa Public
Health Laboratory Networking Project, which created a network of 40 well-equipped
public health laboratories with trained personnel and enhanced diagnostic and surveillance capacity in Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda; this network is
now being leveraged for the COVID-19 response.
Our goal of achieving universal health coverage is crucial to building human capital. We help countries provide quality and affordable health services to everyone—
regardless of their ability to pay—by strengthening primary health care systems,
reducing the financial risk associated with ill health, and increasing equity.
Despite substantial progress in global health outcomes, the 2019 Universal Health
Coverage Global Monitoring Report by the WHO and the Bank finds that significant
challenges remain. It is estimated that each year, people in developing countries pay
over half a trillion dollars out of pocket for health care, causing financial hardship
for more than 925 million people and pushing nearly 90 million people into extreme
poverty. We reaffirmed our commitment to accelerating progress in this area at the
first UN High-Level Meeting on Universal Health Care in September 2019. As one of
12 co-signatories of the Global Action Plan for Healthy Lives and Well-being for All,
52	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

­
The Health Equity and Financial
Protection Indi­cators
This database is a global resource to track progress
on key health sector indicators across countries at
all income levels; the first dataset was published in
2000. The latest version, launched in 2019, includes
data on health service coverage and health outcomes from 196 countries based on 1,204 surveys.
It also includes data on financial protection for 149
countries based on 646 surveys, which look at the
fraction of countries spending more than 10 percent
of their total income on health care, as well as the
percentage of the population who are impoverished
by out-of-pocket health care expenses.

the Bank Group will continue helping countries reduce inefficiencies and deliver on
their international health commitments.
We help countries that face aging populations and a growing burden of noncommunicable diseases. These diseases cause 70 percent of deaths globally, mostly
in low- and middle-income countries. Primary health care services are critical for
prevention, early detection, and management of diseases, as well as health pro­
motion. To prevent, detect, and treat cancer, we are strengthening the capacity
of health ministries in Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda through a
regional program for cancer registries.
COVID-19 has caused significant disruptions in access to essential, life-saving
health services for women and children, which threaten to roll back years of global
progress in reducing maternal and child mortality. The Global Financing Facility
(GFF), a country-driven partnership hosted by the Bank Group, provides catalytic
financing and technical support to protect and promote safe and equitable health
and nutrition services for women and children and build more resilient health systems. Working in 36 low- and lower-middle-income countries that have the world’s
highest maternal and child mortality, the GFF is helping governments prioritize and
plan for ongoing essential health services during the pandemic, strengthen frontline service delivery, and address constraints in delivery of sexual and reproductive
health and other life-saving services. In Zambia, the government is now integrating
essential health services for women and children and gender-based violence into its
national COVID-19 response plan.
Before the pandemic, countries supported by the GFF were already seeing improvements in the health of women and children. In Liberia, between 2017 and 2019, the
number of children under 1 year of age receiving immunization increased by 52 percent, and assisted deliveries rose by 48 percent. In Ethiopia, between 2016 and 2019,
births attended by skilled health workers rose from 28 to 50 percent, and the number
of children under 2 years of age receiving nutrition support rose from 27 to 44 percent.

Protecting the poor and vulnerable through social protection
Social protection programs help protect lives and livelihoods, build and maintain
human capital, and empower people to lift themselves and their families out of poverty, thus contributing to more just, equitable, and inclusive societies. However, the
Bank’s Atlas of Social Protection Indicators of Resilience and Equity shows that only 45
percent of people around the world are covered by some form of social protection—in
the poorest countries, only one in five poor people has access to social safety nets.
Effective social protection delivery systems are especially important in times
of crisis, as they help people manage risks and cope with shocks. According to the
Sourcebook on the Foundations of Social Protection Delivery System, well-developed
	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

53

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

delivery systems can allow for greater coordination across programs, ensuring that
support goes to the right people and helping achieve maximum impact. In response
to COVID-19, the Bank Group moved fast to leverage countries’ existing social protection systems to support families and businesses in restoring incomes and preserving
their livelihoods. We are ramping up our investment in cash transfers by an estimated
$10 billion over 15 months. We also helped countries enhance the preparedness of
their social protection systems and build resilience against future crises.
In response to locust swarms affecting countries in Africa and the Middle East, our
$500 million Emergency Locust Response Program is providing support to affected
households through targeted social safety nets so that they can recover and rebuild.
This includes cash transfers, cash for work, emergency food supplies, and seed and
fodder packages that farmers can use to restore their crops and feed their livestock.
These crises underscore the importance of adaptive social protection systems,
which can scale up quickly in times of crisis to reach those affected. Such programs
also help build the resilience of poor and vulnerable households by boosting their
capacity to prepare for, cope with, and adapt to shocks, including climate-related risks
and fragile or conflict-affected situations. In India, the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan
Yojana Project will help scale up cash transfers and food benefits for 800 million
people, provide robust social protection for essential workers involved in COVID-19
relief, and benefit vulnerable groups, particularly migrants and informal workers.
We are helping countries substantially increase coverage by 2030 by supporting safety net programs, including cash transfers, public works, and school feeding
programs. A conditional cash transfer program in the Philippines is supporting more
than 4 million households, accounting for a quarter of the country’s poverty reduction in the past seven years. In Kenya, the National Safety Net Program significantly
expanded the coverage of cash transfers from 1.7 million people in 2013 to 5 million
people in 2019, 2.3 million of whom were women.
Extending social protection to informal workers is a persistent challenge, with
up to 80 percent of workers in developing countries earning their living in the
informal economy and the number of workers who lack full protections also rising
in high-income countries. Recognizing the changing nature of work, the Protecting All: Risk-Sharing for a Diverse and Diversifying World of Work report proposes
an approach to worker protection and social security that is better adapted to the
increasingly diverse and fluid world of work, calling on governments to provide social
protection irrespective of the sector of work. Considering the devastating impacts of
the COVID-19 pandemic on the poor, especially those in the informal economy, this
proposed model of worker protection is more relevant than ever.

Investing in sustainable infrastructure
Infrastructure development is essential for poverty reduction and shared prosperity. We work with countries to build sustainable infrastructure that helps connect
people to opportunities, promotes economic growth, and leads to better outcomes.
Our integrated approach spans all dimensions of infrastructure development, from
advising on policy and regulation to boosting private sector participation, mobilizing financial solutions, and helping governments prepare projects and bring them
to market.
The COVID-19 pandemic presents a major shock to infrastructure. The Bank is
helping governments take stock of projects and contracts, prioritize planned projects based on changing priorities, and build resilience in response to future shocks
such as natural disasters, climate change, and pandemics. We are also convening
government ministries around the world to exchange experiences and recommendations as they address the challenges posed by the outbreak.

Connecting people to opportunities through sustainable transport
The COVID-19 pandemic has had major implications for transport and mobility.
The impact is being felt most strongly in countries with long or weak supply chains,
major regional ports, and large urban populations that rely on public transportation
54	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

Fostering private sector participation in infrastructure
Most developing countries have low rates of public and private savings, as well
as underdeveloped domestic capital markets; domestic long-term financing for
infrastructure is seldom available. Along with perceived political and commercial risks, these factors have limited countries’ access to international capital
markets, with the private sector accounting for only 9–13 percent of total infrastructure investments. To help close this infrastructure gap, the Bank Group is
deploying our full range of financial instruments and services, encompassing
support from the Bank, IFC, and MIGA. In Afghanistan, we helped set up the first
long-term private investment in the energy sector, boosting domestic electricity
generation by up to 30 percent. Bank Group support is helping the country move
away from reliance on electricity imports and meet growing energy demand. The
Mazar-e-Sharif gas-to-power plant was made possible by a debt financing package arranged by IFC and partners, which also includes a guarantee from IDA and
political risk insurance through MIGA.
In Morocco, Bank Group support is helping upgrade rural roads and expand
Casablanca’s tram system. This includes $100 million in financing from the IFC
without a sovereign guarantee—a first for any local government in North Africa.
An advisory program is also providing technical expertise and guidance on environmental and social governance. This is part of a broader Bank Group effort to
support reforms and investment to boost Morocco’s regional development.
In the West Bank and Gaza, a pioneering project to build solar arrays atop 500
schools in the West Bank will provide the energy-starved territory with enough
clean electricity to power 16,000 homes. The financing package comprises loans
from IFC and partners, as well as a grant from the Bank’s Investment Co-Financing Facility. The project is part of a larger push by the Bank Group to bolster the
power supply in the West Bank and Gaza.
In Ethiopia, we are helping attract private sector investments through sound
policy, legal, institutional, and regulatory frameworks. The Bank provided technical assistance to introduce competition into the telecoms market through new
legislation and establishment of an independent regulatory authority. These
efforts are complemented by IFC support to help the government liberalize the
telecoms market.

to move workers and goods. Addressing mobility is crucial for countries to curb the
spread of the pandemic, protect the well-being of transport workers and services
that move essential personnel and supplies, and rekindle economic activity. As countries move from isolation to management of the pandemic, the Bank is committed
to helping them address their transport and mobility needs. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are financing the purchase of protective gear for railway staff. In Indonesia,
we are helping strengthen safety, security, and emergency preparedness. And as
Kazakhstan prepares for long-term recovery, we are helping the government create
job opportunities in rural road works.
Sustainable transport remains key to addressing many of the world’s development challenges. Lack of access to all-weather roads locks half a billion people in
Africa in poverty. Worldwide, an estimated one in six women does not look for work
out of fear of harassment in transit. Road crashes kill 3,700 people and seriously
injure over 50,000 every day. Transport also accounts for 16 percent of the world’s
greenhouse gas emissions, while congestion costs cities millions of dollars daily.
The Bank is helping improve mobility and build sustainable transport that is green,
safe, efficient, and accessible to all. In Africa, we are supporting the use of drones to
deliver medicine and other important supplies to isolated villages. In Pakistan, we
are expanding access to roads for women, who are twice as likely to go to prenatal
consultations when they have better access. Young people in Freetown, Sierra Leone,
are crowdsourcing data to send minibuses along routes that serve poorer areas in
the city. In Bangalore, we are supporting India’s first intelligent public transport and
	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

55

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

public bike-sharing systems, initiating a new urban model of mobility. In Bogotá,
Colombia, and Lima, Peru, electric metro lines will replace thousands of vehicles and
bring residents within an hour’s commute of thousands of jobs.
Following the devastation from cyclones Idai and Kenneth in 2019, the Integrated
Rural Roads Development Project supported Mozambique’s recovery by reestablishing critical links between agricultural producers and consumers, as well as restoring
access to education and health services. We also have a long-standing partnership
with Bloomberg Philanthropies to support the Global Road Safety Facility (GRSF); the
studies and road improvements this has supported are expected to save about 7,000
lives by 2030 in 10 cities across five countries. In fiscal 2020, the GRSF and the Bankhosted Sustainable Mobility for All consortium (SuM4All) also offered countries diagnostic reports about their road safety and broader mobility challenges, helping them
build tailored policy responses using international best practice. In October 2019,
SuM4All released its Global Roadmap of Action toward Sustainable Mobility for 183
countries; Ethiopia and South Africa were the first to adopt programs based on this.

Closing the digital divide
Digital technologies are at the forefront of development and provide a unique opportunity for countries to accelerate economic growth. Yet at the end of 2019, half the
world’s population was still without internet access, with the vast majority of them
concentrated in developing countries. A persisting digital divide could exacerbate
inequalities and create a new class of “digital poor.” The Bank works with governments to expand access to fast, reliable, and affordable internet and develop online
platforms that improve service delivery, governance, and social accountability. We
are helping client countries scale up efforts toward universal broadband access and
give people the skills and resources they need to fully participate in the digital economy. Through the Digital Development Partnership, we are also fostering and implementing digital strategies for countries, working with donor governments and global
technology organizations.
Across Africa, where less than a third of the population has access to broadband,
achieving universal, affordable, and quality internet access will require an investment
of $100 billion. To help achieve this objective, the Bank Group launched the Digital
Economy for Africa initiative in 2019, in support of the African Union’s Digital Transformation Strategy. It sets an ambitious target to digitally connect every individual,
business, and government in Africa by 2030. As part of the initiative, the Bank is
conducting diagnostics on countries’ digital economies to identify challenges and
opportunities for future growth. We delivered 25 diagnostics in fiscal 2020.
We are working with digital technologies to address a broad range of development
challenges. In Niger, a country where half of the population is not covered by mobile
broadband, the Smart Villages for Rural Growth and Digital Inclusion Project aims
to increase digital connectivity and bring digital financial services to underserved
areas. In Bangladesh, we established the country’s core digital government foundations, including the first national data center, cybersecurity center, and enterprise
architecture. This helped create 35,000 jobs for youth, more than a third of whom
are women, and boosted IT industry revenue by 160 percent. In Peru, where two out
of three women experience intimate partner violence, the $36 million Centralized
Emergency Response System Project is using technology to prevent and respond to
gender-based violence.
Approximately 1 billion people around the world do not have any officially recognized ID, limiting their access to services and opportunities. Through the Identification
for Development (ID4D) initiative, we help countries develop inclusive and trusted
ID systems. The Bank is supporting more than 40 countries’ efforts to design and
implement digital ID and civil registration systems.
Digital technologies can also play an indispensable role in sustaining social and
economic activities during the COVID-19 pandemic. Digital platforms are providing
people with solutions for remote study or work, while e-commerce can be a lifeline
during lockdowns. Governments are using digital technologies to maintain services
56	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

or facilitate contact tracing to limit infections. However, many poor countries lack
the infrastructure to implement these measures. In April 2020, we co-hosted a highlevel virtual roundtable with the International Telecommunication Union; GSMA,
which represents mobile operators worldwide; and the World Economic Forum. This
dialogue brought together government ministries, ICT regulators, and technology
companies to launch an accelerated action plan that aims to help countries better
leverage the use of digital technologies and infrastructure during the pandemic.

Accelerating sustainable solutions in energy and extractives
Access to electricity supports essential services, makes communities safer, fuels
the movement of people and goods, and promotes the investments and industries
that drive growth for economies. However, nearly 840 million people still live without
electricity, mostly in Africa and South Asia, while millions more grapple with unreliable access.
The Bank helps countries secure an affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy
supply, as well as manage their natural resources in a way that contributes to economic growth and poverty reduction. Since 2017, we have helped countries provide
new electricity connections to over 30 million people. And in the past two years,
we committed about $1 billion for mini-grids and standalone off-grid systems; over
80 percent of these commitments were in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Recognizing that renewable energy and energy efficiency play a pivotal role in
development and in tackling climate change, we provided $9.4 billion in financing
over the past five years for projects in these sectors in developing countries.
Through the Climate Investment Fund and the Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program’s Sustainable Renewables Risk Mitigation Initiative, we support
activities like our Off-Grid Electrification Project in the West Africa and Sahel region,
which aims to deliver electricity access or better services to nearly 2 million people.
Around the world, 3 billion people continue to cook with polluting fuels, creating
major health, development, and climate setbacks. To address this, we launched the
Clean Cooking Fund in September 2019 to help accelerate progress toward universal
access to clean cooking.
In Rwanda, our policy development work aims to help the country reach nearuniversal electricity access by 2024, from just 6 percent in 2009, while also promoting
energy efficiency and increasing the share of solar and hydro power in the country’s
energy mix. In the Gambia, we helped the country go from three hours of electricity
per day in 2017 to a continuous supply in 2020; we also helped lay the foundation
to achieve universal access by 2025 with a cleaner and more affordable energy mix.
We secured $36 million in funding for the second phase of the Extractives Global
Programmatic Support trust fund, which works to improve transparency and governance in the extractives industry, especially in the poorest and most fragile countries.

Promoting climate action, disaster resilience, and adaptation
Countries around the world are struggling against the COVID-19 pandemic, and the
Bank Group has a wealth of experience—including from its work on climate and disaster risk management—to draw from to help them respond to the immediate crisis and
build a more resilient and sustainable future. This includes key lessons from disaster
response programs that demonstrate the importance of adaptive social protection
systems that can expand quickly to reach more people, which we are applying in countries like Pakistan and South Sudan. To help countries build back stronger, we are urging
policy makers to take into account short- and long-term considerations. We developed
a sustainability checklist to help ensure that stimulus packages address job creation,
economic activity, timeliness, and risk, while also considering longer-term impacts on
human, natural, and physical capital, as well as resilience and decarbonization.
We work with countries to implement projects identified in their adaptation
plans and nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement; many of
these could also be included in stimulus package investments as countries recover
from the pandemic. As secretariat to the Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate
	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

57

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

Action, the Bank Group encourages countries to focus on investments that promote cleaner air, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and take on climate impacts.
Addressing climate change is also one of the policy backbones of the Bank Group’s
recent capital increase commitments and the IDA19 replenishment. We continue to
surpass our own climate targets, committing $17.2 billion for climate-related investments in fiscal 2020.
We produce analytical work to help policy makers in developing countries prepare
for a low-carbon future. Technology Transfer and Innovation for Low-Carbon Development, published in March 2020, offers policies that can help support the transfer of low-carbon technologies to developing countries, including subsidies, human
capital investments, and fewer restrictions on trade and foreign direct investment.
The Bank also provides technical and financial support to help countries assess
their exposure to hazards and address disaster risk as a result of extreme weather
events, geological hazards, and pandemics. We support specialized agencies, including those responsible for emergency preparedness and response, and promote a
comprehensive approach to managing disaster risk and mainstreaming resilience
across sectors and communities, especially vulnerable groups. Since February
2020, nearly $1.7 billion has been rapidly disbursed through Catastrophe Deferred
Drawdown Options to support the COVID-19 response across 15 countries. All Bank
projects are now screened for climate and disaster risk to ensure they build the resilience of people on the ground.

Building sustainable and inclusive cities
Today, over half of the world’s population lives in cities. By 2050, seven out of 10
people will be urban dwellers, and close to 90 percent of future urbanization will take
place in the developing world, mainly Asia and Africa. We help cities in developing
countries become more livable, climate-smart and resilient, inclusive, and competitive, so they can contribute to growth and poverty alleviation. By investing an average of $5 billion–$6 billion annually and supporting policy reforms, we focus on four
key challenges: the planning and capacity gap, the financing gap resulting from rapid
urbanization in lower-income countries, widening spatial and territorial inequalities
between regions and within cities, and the growing hazard risk for people and assets
concentrated in urban areas.
We assist governments in designing and implementing urban development plans
and help them improve access to infrastructure and basic services, including solid
waste management, housing, urban transport, and water and sanitation systems. In
Morocco, we supported reforms of the country’s housing value chain, which included
upgrading slums and modernizing the building code and housing rental law. This helped
over 100,000 households employed in the informal sector access mortgage finance.
The Hidden Wealth of Cities report, published earlier this year, identified strategies for
cities to leverage public spaces to enhance livability, resilience, and competitiveness.
The global investment needed for resilient urban infrastructure is $4.5 trillion–
$5.4 trillion per year. Much of this need is in the developing world, far exceeding
what official development assistance can provide. The Bank helps cities expand their
access to finance from multiple sources, such as generating public revenue, reforming intergovernmental fiscal transfers, and improving access to private and commercial finance by capturing land values. Our City Creditworthiness Initiative strengthens
the financial performance of local governments and prepares them to tap domestic
and regional capital markets without a sovereign guarantee. Since 2014, this initiative has trained municipal officials from 250 cities in 26 countries. In Ethiopia, the
$600 million Urban Institutional and Infrastructure Development Program is helping
117 urban local governments strengthen institutions, municipal infrastructure, and
local economic development, benefiting over 9 million people.
We are working to reduce spatial inequalities, both across regions and within
­cities. At the subnational level, we support investments and government strategies
that help regions reach unmet potential, such as a $1 billion multisectoral initiative
underway in Kenya’s northeastern region. At the local level, we invest in upgrading
58	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

informal settlements to improve access to urban infrastructure and service delivery,
including in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and across Indonesia. The Convergence report,
published in February 2020, looks at drivers of spatial inequalities in the Middle East
and North Africa. It highlights how gaps within the region have been exacerbated by
constraints to the mobility of goods and people, inefficient and centralized service
delivery, and regulatory frictions in urban land markets.
We also support cities in developing countries as they transition to low-carbon and
climate-resilient pathways. The City Climate Finance Gap Fund aims to identify and
speed up the preparation of climate-friendly projects in cities through financing to
formulate strategies and analyze key interventions. The City Resilience Program, a
partnership between the World Bank and the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction
and Recovery, is a multidonor initiative aimed at increasing financing for urban resilience. Since its inception in 2017, it has helped more than 90 cities in over 50 countries
plan for and mitigate the adverse impacts of disasters and climate change, as well as
mobilize financing for resilient infrastructure. In Senegal, the program is helping Dakar
attract private investment to build and operate a new municipal sanitary landfill.
Cities are on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic, together with public health
and disaster risk management authorities. But many cities in developing countries
lack capacity to contain the spread of the virus, particularly among slum dwellers
and other vulnerable groups who find it difficult to adhere to distancing and sanitation practices. Taking broad-based action, the Bank is helping cities prevent community transmission, deliver critical public services, protect the urban poor, improve
zoning and land use, and strengthen financial sustainability.

Managing resources sustainably
Ensuring food security and sustainable food systems
Since 2015, the number of undernourished people has continued to grow each
year. Many countries are facing greater levels of food and nutrition insecurity amid
shocks related to climate change, conflict, and pests, as well as income losses stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic. These shocks threaten food production, disrupt supply chains, and weaken people’s ability to purchase nutritious food. We are
working with governments and partners to closely monitor global and domestic food
prices and supply chains. We are encouraging countries to adopt policy responses
that keep food supply chains open and functional, incorporate health and safety
measures along these supply chains, and boost safety net programs for the most
vulnerable populations.
These efforts build on our ongoing efforts to improve food security for countries.
In August 2019, we helped convene the Africa Food Security Leadership Dialogue, a
joint initiative with the African Union Commission, the African Development Bank,
the Food and Agriculture Organization, and the International Fund for Agricultural
Development. It catalyzes action and financing to help address Africa’s worsening
food security situation. In May 2020, we provided support for emergency responses
to a historic locust outbreak, which has been exacerbated by climate change and
weak governance in some countries. This support aims to reduce the impact of the
pest on crops and pasture, restore livelihoods, and strengthen prevention and control systems in the Horn of Africa and beyond.
Contemporary food systems result in outsized environmental and health costs,
which urgently need to be curbed. We have helped countries like Colombia, where
23,000 hectares have been converted to tree-based livestock management systems
that increase milk yields and incomes, while restoring ecosystems, increasing climate resilience, and protecting biodiversity. In Pakistan, we are supporting food system reforms to deliver better nutrition, livelihoods, and resilience in Punjab province,
where about 40 percent of adults are employed in agriculture and about 40 percent
of children under age 5 are stunted in their development.
We are working with countries to tackle some of the root causes of emerging
infectious diseases like COVID-19, including the uncontrolled risk of pathogen transmission from animals to humans in a rapidly changing environment. These risks are
	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

59

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

The 50 X 2030 Initiative
This initiative is an alliance of development agencies, governments, and donors
to achieve “data-smart agriculture” in the next 10 years by helping 50 low- and
lower-middle-income countries strengthen their national agricultural data systems to produce timely agricultural and rural survey data. The endeavor will
reshape the landscape of statistics and evidence-based decision making in agriculture, helping these countries move toward zero hunger, global food security,
better nutrition, and sustainable agriculture. Development partners have so
far committed $200 million to a Bank-managed trust fund, which will leverage
$300 million–$500 million in complementary resources, including IDA operations and the private sector. This will further unlock domestic resources from individual countries to enhance sustainability and promote data-smart agriculture.
exacerbated by food systems under strain from significant increases in production
and consumption, as well as increased movements and trade that multiply the capacity to spread diseases. These developments underscore the importance of treating
environmental health, animal health, and human health as one. By investing in safer,
more sustainable, and more robust food systems, we can help prevent costly outbreaks, protect livelihoods, and ensure access to reliable and affordable food supplies.

Supporting ecosystems and biodiversity for long-term growth
We work with countries to reduce pollution, contributing to better health outcomes.
Air pollution causes more than 7 million premature deaths annually. Through our
Pollution Management and Environmental Health Program, we provide developing
countries with knowledge products and technical assistance to help them better
manage air and land pollution. In China’s Hebei province, Bank interventions have
helped lower annual concentrations of fine particulate matter by about 41 percent. In
Bangladesh, the use of cleaner technologies in brick-making kilns has helped reduce
emissions. In Egypt, we provided analytical support to help prepare an investment
project on air and waste management.
In developing countries, a significant share of people’s food, fuel, and incomes
come from forests, lakes, rivers, and oceans. However, many of these natural assets
are being depleted by human activities such as over-fishing, deforestation, and the
illegal wildlife trade. The COVID-19 crisis has further underscored the strong links
between human and planetary health and loss. The degradation and loss of forests,
for example, is disrupting nature’s balance and increasing the risk and exposure of
people to zoonotic diseases. In collaboration with a wide range of stakeholders and
partners, we will help more than 10 countries develop policy notes to inform and support investment in forests per our commitments under the Bank Group’s Forest Action
Plan. In October 2019, we published the report Illegal Logging, Fishing, and Wildlife
Trade, which provides a road map for policy makers around the world to address the
root causes of the illegal activities.
We help countries better manage and conserve their natural assets and increase
productivity, growth, and jobs, while balancing environmental risks and making communities more resilient. Through our Global Program on Sustainability, we are working with more than 20 countries to value and measure the economic contribution
of biodiversity, including forests, land, and water resources so that they can better
manage these natural assets. In Ethiopia, a $100 million Resilient Landscapes and
Livelihoods Project is supporting climate resilience, land productivity, carbon storage, soil and water management, and livelihood diversification in watersheds.
Through development policy financing, we continue to support government
reforms that promote environmental and economic sustainability, which has
become even more important as countries work toward a greener, bluer, and climate-smart recovery from COVID-19. In Costa Rica, the $300 million First Fiscal and
Decar­bonization Project is helping lay the foundation for a sustainable recovery by
60	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

promoting green growth and low-carbon development. The new multidonor trust
fund PROGREEN helps countries improve livelihoods while tackling declining biodiversity, desertification, loss of forests, deteriorating land fertility, and other increasing
risks, such as uncontrolled forest fires. Our blue economy program and the PROBLUE
multidonor trust fund help countries better manage fisheries and aquaculture; establish coastal and marine protected areas; enhance the sustainability of oceanic sectors, such as offshore wind energy and shipping; and develop nature-based solutions
that reduce communities’ exposure to hazards. We are also addressing the threat
posed by pollution from plastics. In Indonesia, the Bank has committed $100 million
to improve solid waste management services for urban populations, prevent marine
litter, and address marine debris and plastics. Through the $37 million Plastic-Free
Rivers and Seas for South Asia Project, we are helping the region’s countries curb
marine plastic pollution and develop solutions to reinvent plastic use and production.

Promoting sustainable management of water and sanitation
Water insecurity—arising from gaps in access to water supply and sanitation, rapid
urbanization and population growth, pollution, climate impacts, and water-intensive
growth patterns—presents a threat to economic progress, poverty alleviation, and
sustainable development. To achieve a water-secure world for all, we are working
with countries and partners to improve resource management, facilitate universal
access to water and sanitation, and optimize water use in agriculture. This also helps
build resilience through systems that can better withstand climate extremes and
address fragility in water-stressed countries.
Our support to countries in maintaining services in water, sanitation, and hygiene
is helping contain COVID-19, lessen its immediate impact and aftermath, and build
future resilience to infectious disease outbreaks. In Sri Lanka, the COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Project is helping prevent,
detect, and respond to COVID-19 and strengthen national systems for public health
preparedness. It also raises public awareness about handwashing and promotes the
importance of hygiene. It is making information widely accessible in different languages, addressing cultural sensitivities, and reaching those with illiteracy or disabilities. In Ethiopia, we urgently mobilized resources for the Second Urban Water
Supply and Sanitation Project to respond to the pandemic. We are working closely
with the Ministry of Health and the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority to
ensure all health care facilities and isolation centers have round-the-clock access to
water. The project is also replacing and rehabilitating water pumps and boreholes in
Addis Ababa, ensuring those living in this dense urban area have access.
Our work in water extends beyond Bank operations. The Global Water Security
and Sanitation Partnership, a multidonor trust fund launched in 2017, helps countries build capacity and strengthen the institutions and infrastructure they need to
adequately supply current and future generations with water, food, and energy. The
2030 Water Resources Group, a public-private–civil society partnership, supports
government-accelerated reforms to help countries sustainably manage their water
resources for long-term development and economic growth.

Addressing fragility, conflict, and violence
By 2030, up to two-thirds of the world’s extreme poor will live in situations affected by
fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV). Violent conflicts have increased to the highest
levels observed over the past 30 years. The world also faces the largest forced displacement crisis ever, with more than 79 million people fleeing conflict and violence.
These challenges are exacerbated by risks such as climate change, demographic
change, digital transformation, violent extremism, and pandemics like COVID-19. Our
February 2020 report, Fragility and Conflict: On the Front Lines of the Fight against
Poverty, found that, in countries facing chronic fragility and conflict, poverty rates
have stalled at more than 40 percent over the past decade, while countries that have
escaped these situations have reduced poverty by more than half. Today, a person in
a country facing chronic fragility and conflict is 10 times more likely to be poor than
	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

61

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

one living in a country that hasn’t been in conflict or affected by fragility in the past
20 years. Given the increasingly complex and protracted nature of FCV, development
support is essential to protect human capital, build the foundations for sustainable
peace, and promote shared prosperity.
In February 2020, we released the Bank Group’s first five-year FCV strategy.
It aims to increase our effectiveness in helping countries address the causes and
impacts of FCV and to strengthen resilience, especially for vulnerable and marginalized populations. Building on the Bank Group’s decades of experience in FCV situations, the strategy articulates a tailored approach to support countries impacted by
diverse FCV challenges and proposes operational changes to adapt our engagement
in the most challenging settings. It reflects consultations and feedback from over
2,000 stakeholders across 95 countries and territories, representing governments,
international organizations, civil society, and the private sector.
IDA scaled up its support to countries affected by FCV significantly under IDA18,
doubling its financing to $14 billion. In fiscal 2020, the Bank approved $10 billion in
IDA18 commitments for countries affected by FCV.* As part of the IDA19 replenishment in December 2019, we are further increasing financing and tailored support for
countries affected by FCV to address a range of risks. This will be critical in addressing the root causes of fragility, investing in conflict prevention, providing development support during conflict and crisis situations, and helping countries build the
institutions needed to transition out of fragility. The IDA19 replenishment includes a
larger $2.2 billion Window for Host Communities and Refugees, as well as a renewed
$2.5 billion Private Sector Window to catalyze investments in the private sector and
create jobs, including in FCV settings. As part of the pivot to prevention, IDA19 will
continue scaling up regional approaches to fragility, including in the Sahel, the Lake
Chad region, and the Horn of Africa. It will also focus on strengthening the conflict
sensitivity of country approaches, supporting capacity building and implementation
in insecure settings, and investing in crisis preparedness and response to address
food insecurity and pandemic threats.
Most of the world’s nearly 26 million refugees are hosted by developing countries, and three-quarters of them remain displaced after five years. In fiscal 2020,
the IDA18 Sub-Window for Refugees and Host Communities provided $923 million
in financing for 16 projects in nine countries. In Ethiopia, it provided $202 million
to help the government create 30,000 economic opportunities for refugees and
45,000 for Ethiopians; this is complemented by reforms that focus on refugees’
access to legal documentation, better social services, and freedom of movement.
The IDA18 Crisis Response Window also helps the poorest countries manage crises
and mitigate large refugee flows by creating opportunities. It is applying regional
approaches in areas acutely affected by forced displacement, including the Sahel,
the Lake Chad region, and the Horn of Africa.
We are deepening cooperation and complementary partnerships with humanitarian, development, peace building, security, and private sector organizations to
strengthen our impact on the ground. In South Sudan, we are working with UNICEF
and the International Committee of the Red Cross to provide critical health services
to vulnerable and marginalized communities in conflict-affected areas. Globally, our
Refugee Investment and Matchmaking Platform brings together businesses, foundations, and the development community to create economic opportunities for refugees and host communities.
Through community-driven approaches, we have scaled up quickly to operate
in remote or conflict-affected environments. In the Horn of Africa, the Development
Response to Displacement Impacts Project has improved access to basic social
services, expanded economic opportunities, and enhanced environmental management for communities hosting refugees.
The Global Concessional Financing Facility provides concessional financing to
middle-income countries that host large numbers of refugees. Since 2016, it has
* Countries affected by FCV consists of the countries on the List of Fragile and ConflictAffected Situations and those benefiting from the IDA18 Risk Mitigation Regime.

62	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

provided more than $600 million in grants to unlock more than $3.5 billion in
concessional financing. This has helped Jordan and Lebanon address the inflow
of Syrian refugees and is helping Colombia and Ecuador meet the needs of more
than 1 million displaced Venezuelans and their host communities. It also provides
a platform for coordination between multilateral development banks, the UN,
and participating countries.

Supporting more inclusive and empowered communities
We work with countries to foster cohesive and resilient societies, close critical access gaps for marginalized people, and enhance voice and agency for all.
Our work is based on decades of experience in people-centered, participatory
approaches to development that recognize the importance of informal institutions and community values in influencing country outcomes. We support a broad
range of community-driven development projects, which give control of planning
decisions and investment resources to communities and local governments. This
approach helps build resilience, inclusion, and social accountability. Under our
Environmental and Social Framework, stakeholder engagement plans and citizen
engagement are important to ensure voice and agency for project beneficiaries.
Our social development efforts respond to a variety of needs, including clean
water access, rural roads, school and health clinic facilities, nutrition for mothers and infants, and support for livelihoods and microenterprises, with a focus on
women. A $400 million program in Indonesia helped community health workers
monitor service access for vulnerable families and provided nutrition support,
parenting classes, early childhood programs, and education for pregnant mothers
and young children. Such programs have shown a remarkable ability to respond
to crises; they are being adapted in several countries to support an early response
to the COVID-19 pandemic by facilitating prevention, public health communications, high-frequency monitoring, and emergency support for vulnerable families.
In countries affected by FCV, we support monitoring, participatory service
delivery, peace building and reconciliation processes, and targeted efforts to
reduce interpersonal violence. Over the past few years, the Bank has redoubled
its efforts to address gender-based violence (GBV) through operational and analytical work, as well as partnerships with other international and local stakeholders. We support over $300 million in operations aimed at addressing GBV, as well
as the integration of GBV components in areas such as transport, education,
social protection, and forced displacement.
Our work on social inclusion focuses research and actions on gender, sexual
orientation and gender identity (SOGI), persons with disabilities, and indigenous
peoples. In Serbia, we published an evidence-based study that highlighted the
socioeconomic implications of SOGI discrimination. We have also mainstreamed
disability inclusion into Bank operations across a wide range of sectors. Under
IDA19, the Bank has made six commitments to ensure that development is disability inclusive and that the design and delivery of operations benefit persons with disabilities. We have established a network of regional and global staff with expertise
on Indigenous peoples’ issues to increase their inclusion in our Systematic Country
Diagnostics and Country Partnership Frameworks, as well as national policy dialogues and public investments. A community-driven project to support Indigenous
communities in Panama illustrates how deepening engagement with Indigenous
peoples can better support their development priorities.
We also work to strengthen the voice of other racial and ethnic minorities to
help ensure to access essential services and jobs. Examples include efforts across
Latin America to expand economic opportunities for Afro-descendants and close
their gap in digital access, a platform for Roma civil society organizations in Romania to voice their concerns in policy dialogues, work with Vietnam to broaden the
economic participation of ethnic minorities, and support for Guatemala to improve
childhood nutrition for Indigenous peoples.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/topics.
	

APPLYING EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHTS FOR GOOD COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

63

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

64	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

ADVAN CIN G KNOWLED GE , RESE ARCH ,
AND DATA FOR DE VELOPMENT
OUR KNOWLEDGE, RESEARCH, AND DATA PRODUCTS provide a valuable global

public good, offering relevant analysis and insights that are embedded in our
operations, support informed decision making by countries, and guide the global
development agenda.

Global Economic Prospects: Slow growth, policy challenges
This semiannual flagship report, published in January and June, examines global
economic developments, prospects, and policies, with a focus on emerging market
and developing economies. The June 2020 edition showed how the COVID-19 pandemic has dealt a heavy blow to an already weak global economy, which is expected
to slide into its deepest recession since World War II. The global recession would
be deeper if countries take longer to bring the pandemic under control, if financial
stress triggers defaults, or if there are protracted effects on households and businesses. Disruptions are likely to be more severe and protracted in emerging market
and developing economies with larger domestic outbreaks and weaker medical care
systems; greater exposure to international spillovers through trade, tourism, and
commodity and financial markets; weaker macroeconomic frameworks; and more
pervasive informality and poverty. The pandemic will likely leave lasting scars on the
global economy by undermining consumer and investor confidence, human capital, and global value chains. Low oil prices—resulting from a recent plunge in global
energy demand—are unlikely to provide much of a boost to global growth in the near
term. While policy makers’ immediate priorities are to address the health crisis and
moderate the short-term economic losses, the likely long-term consequences of the
pandemic highlight the need to undertake comprehensive reforms to improve the
fundamental drivers of economic growth once the crisis abates.

Providing data to strengthen development knowledge
We bring together resources from across the data value chain, from data production
to curation and analytics. Accurate and accessible data help countries strengthen
service delivery, promote accountability, and monitor progress toward development
goals. However, many of the poorest countries face challenges in collecting and
using data, such as inadequate financing, insufficient use of statistical evidence by
decision makers, and limited public access. We work to build institutional capacity
in these countries and reduce gaps in the availability of core data that can inform
evidence-based policy making and reforms. The next edition of the World Development Report, Data for Better Lives, will be released in early 2021. It will focus on how
data can improve the lives of the poor in developing countries and will reflect on the
current data landscape and the environment needed to enable the use of data while
preventing misuse.
PovcalNet is an online analysis tool for global poverty monitoring that allows users
to replicate the Bank’s official poverty estimates, calculate poverty measures under
different assumptions, and assemble estimates for different groups of economies.
In March 2020, we released revised estimates of global poverty from 1981 to 2015,
and new poverty estimates for the reference year 2018 are now included for some
regions. The estimates use data from more than 1,900 household surveys across

	

ADVANCING KNOWLEDGE, RESEARCH, AND DATA FOR DEVELOPMENT 	

65

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

164 economies. Research suggests that COVID-19 may push about 100 million more
people into extreme poverty, with Sub-Saharan Africa being the hardest hit.
The International Comparison Program is one of the largest statistical programs in the world, led by the Bank under the auspices of the UN Statistical Commission, with 176 participating economies. In partnership with regional, national,
and international agencies, it collects and compares price data and GDP expenditures to estimate purchasing power parities (PPPs) of the world’s economies every
three years. In May 2020, new PPPs for reference year 2017 were released, adjusting
for differences in the cost of living across economies. Revised results for 2011, the
program’s previous reference year, were also released, as well as estimates of annual
PPPs for 2012–16. PPPs are key to analyzing poverty and competitiveness, as well
as monitoring progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals.
The Development Data Partnership overcomes significant data gaps in development by facilitating collaboration among international organizations and companies,
so that they can jointly create insights and tools that support better public services
and infrastructure. It reduces transaction costs associated with data sharing, while
increasing the transparency and accountability of public goods analytics. The partnership includes the IMF and the Inter-American Development Bank and supports
more than 50 Bank operations. We have leveraged it to help map transit routes in
Freetown, Sierra Leone; identify road safety risks in Nairobi, Kenya; understand
access to employment in Dhaka, Bangladesh; and examine gender pay disparities in
small and medium enterprises in emerging economies.
For more information, visit data.worldbank.org.

Using data to support
the response to COVID-19
As part of our global response to the
COVID-19 pandemic, the Bank quickly
developed data tools and conducted
research to better understand the pandemic and its impact on developing countries. The COVID-19 Mobility Analytics Task
Force provides countries with data analytics
on mobility that can inform mitigation policies to prevent the spread of the disease,
working in partnership with mobile network
aggregators, smartphone app developers,
and data aggregators. Our coronavirus
open data website provides streamlined,
open access to relevant COVID-19 data, including a dashboard tool that allows
users to analyze real-time global data alongside relevant indicators, such as
health system capacity and access to basic handwashing facilities. Reflecting
our commitment to open data, the website allows users, including developers, to access the data through APIs. It also provides data to the Humanitarian
Data Exchange, in partnership with UNHCR.
We also developed COVID-19 Business Pulse Surveys to measure the
impact of the pandemic on firms, companies, and public policy responses. By
the end of fiscal 2020, data collection was planned or ongoing in 33 countries across six regions. The results are being used to inform the design of our
COVID-19-response operations.

66	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

SU PP ORTIN G CO U NTRIE S’ DE VELOPMENT
THROU GH CAPITAL MARKE TS
THROUGH GLOBAL CAPITAL MARKETS, IBRD AND IDA MOBILIZE FINANCE for our

client countries. As Bank operations scaled up to address the COVID-19 pandemic
in fiscal 2020, we raised exceptional levels of funding and worked to manage risks
while continuing to deliver advisory services to clients. By quickly disbursing loans
and grants to support emergency projects, we helped countries cope with the health,
economic, and social impacts of the pandemic. We also have robust business continuity arrangements in place to ensure that our disbursements continue without
disruption to help countries meet their development challenges.
In addition to raising funds for IBRD and IDA, the Bank’s Treasury manages
over $184 billion in assets for IBRD, IDA, and MIGA, as well as for 76 clients—including central banks, public pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, and international
financial institutions—as well as annual cash flows of over $7.6 trillion in 125 currencies in 138 countries.

Mobilizing capital markets and sustainable finance to
support countries
IBRD has mobilized finance for client countries for over 70 years, raising nearly
$1 trillion since its first bond in 1947. In fiscal 2020, IBRD raised $75 billion through
its triple-A rating and strong standing in the markets to support the Bank’s mandate and help clients manage risk and build resilience. In April 2020, in support of
our efforts to help countries address COVID-19, IBRD raised $15 billion through sustainable development bonds over a three-day period, including a five-year $8 billion
bond—the largest ever issued by a supranational.
IDA supports the world’s poorest countries, many of which face severe challenges
from COVID-19. In fiscal 2020, IDA issued $5 billion. This year saw debut issuance in
additional currencies, such as the British pound sterling (GBP), euro, and Swedish
krona (SEK). IDA also has a triple-A rating and continues to expand into new markets.

Increasing development impact through sustainable
development bonds and technical assistance
We help pioneer financial tools that expand markets and provide the financing needed
to undertake the world’s most difficult development challenges. By issuing sustainable development bonds, we support the financing of a variety of priorities in line with
our mission to end extreme poverty and reduce inequality. These bonds also help
develop local capital markets, especially in low-income countries. In January 2020, we
issued our first IBRD bond denominated in Rwandan francs, providing international
investors with an opportunity to gain exposure to the country’s growing economy
through its currency. It is the seventh Sub-Saharan African currency for IBRD.
Sustainable development bonds offer investors an opportunity to earn a financial
return while making a positive impact, communicating their sustainable investment
priorities, and supporting global development objectives. In May 2020, we published
the first-ever Sustainable Development Bond Impact Report. It covers all IBRD bond
issuances and is a key part of our efforts to engage market participants while adhering to strong transparency and disclosure standards.
In April 2020, to raise awareness about countries’ health programs and our support for their efforts to respond to COVID-19, IBRD issued a two-year SEK 11.5 billion
benchmark and a three-year GBP 1.5 billion benchmark to global investors.
IBRD bonds are also helping raise awareness about food insecurity, a global challenge exacerbated by COVID-19. In September 2019, IBRD issued bonds totaling
	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ DEVELOPMENT THROUGH CAPITAL MARKETS 	

67

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

$500 million that will support Bank lending, including $4.6 billion to combat food
loss and waste, as well as strengthen infrastructure, expand access to markets
and logistics, and improve waste management. These efforts totaled $1.7 billion in
issuance in fiscal 2020.
As one of the largest issuers of green bonds, IBRD supports climate-related
projects while helping investors support development solutions that address climate change. We also help countries build green bond markets to demonstrate
leadership on sustainability and climate action. Since issuing the world’s first
labeled green bond in 2008, we have raised $14 billion through 165 transactions
in 22 currencies. In November 2019, we issued a 20-year Danish kroner (DKK)
3 billion green bond—the first green bond denominated in DKK and the longestmaturity green bond issued by a sovereign, supranational, or agency issuer in
the Danish market.
We provide technical assistance to subnational and sovereign issuers in emerging markets, including Colombia, Indonesia, Kenya, and Malaysia. We also published
the Guide on Developing a National Green Taxonomy to promote sustainable finance
in emerging markets; conducted surveys of issuers and investors on environmental,
social, and governance issues; and hosted workshops to facilitate dialogue between
sovereign issuers and investors. We also help financial sector regulators implement
reforms for greener financial systems, including climate stress testing for the banking sector, as well as environmental, social, and governance disclosure and reporting
frameworks for institutional investors.
Through initiatives such as the Joint Capital Market Program, the Bank Group is
delivering technical assistance to help emerging market and developing economies
deepen their capital markets and mobilize private capital in local currency, so that
they can increase funding for strategic sectors including infrastructure, housing,
agriculture, and small and medium enterprises.

Managing disaster risks through global capital markets
The Bank’s disaster risk insurance platform helps member countries manage risks
related to natural disasters, including pandemics, through insurance and capital
markets transactions. In November 2019, we issued catastrophe bonds that will provide the Philippines with $225 million of insurance cover for earthquakes and tropical cyclones for three years. It was the first catastrophe bond sponsored by an Asian
sovereign and listed on an Asian stock exchange, as well as the first World Bank bond
on the Singapore Exchange.
We have supported Mexico’s catastrophe bond program since it began in 2005.
In March 2020, we issued four tranches of catastrophe bonds for the country’s Natural Disasters Fund, attracting 38 investors globally and providing $485 million of
insurance cover against earthquakes and hurricanes for four years. This is Mexico’s
largest and longest-ever catastrophe bond transaction; it brings the total disaster
risk transactions facilitated by the Bank for member countries to nearly $5 billion.

Building human capital in public sector asset management
The World Bank Treasury’s Reserve Advisory and Management Partnership delivers
demand-driven capacity building and asset management services to official sector
asset managers. It helps central banks, pension funds, and sovereign wealth funds
build human capital and strengthen operations through advisory missions, technical
workshops, and global conferences.
Demand for the program continues to grow—it now serves 75 institutions,
including nine in low-income countries and seven in countries in fragile and conflictaffected situations. In fiscal 2020, it released its second biannual survey on central
bank reserve management practices, highlighting the progress made by central
banks in governance and risk management.
For more information, visit treasury.worldbank.org.

68	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

PARTNERIN G TO BOOST
DE VELOPMENT IMPACT
BY ENGAGING AND PARTNERING with a wide array of stakeholder groups, we seek

to advance development dialogue and action at all levels to help address countries’
development challenges. Our work with partners has helped advance and foster
action on issues of critical importance, including human capital, fragility, gender,
and sustainability. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have brought together key
development partners, facilitating sharing of information and identifying avenues for
collaboration.
Multilateral and international affairs. The Bank works closely with shareholders
and multi­lateral partners to enable a favorable authorizing environment for strong
country outcomes. In fiscal 2020, we mobilized support for an $82 billion financing package for IDA19, a 3 percent increase in real terms compared to IDA18. We
participated in a range of multilateral platforms, such as the G7 under the French
presidency, to build high-level support for IDA19 priorities. The latter include scaling up efforts in countries affected by FCV, especially in the Sahel; addressing
debt vulnerabilities; empowering women; and combating climate change. In early
2020, the Bank Group engaged closely with the U.S. G7 Presidency, the Saudi G20
Presidency, other multilateral development banks (MDBs), and the UN system to
support the globally coordinated response to COVID-19. As part of this effort, in
April 2020, the Bank, together with the IMF, called for the suspension of bilateral
debt service payments from the poorest countries to ensure they have the liquidity needed to address the impacts of the ­pandemic. G20 Finance Ministers subsequently endorsed the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI), which took effect
on May 1, 2020. The Bank also took the lead in developing a coordinated response
with nine MDBs on our approach to the DSSI to ensure positive net flows to beneficiary countries so they could focus on their response to COVID-19. During the fiscal
year, we have also worked with the European Union to develop efficient and inclusive
financial systems, encourage digital transformation, address inequality, and mobilize financing for development.
Civil society. We engage with civil society organizations (CSOs) worldwide through
partnerships and outreach, advocacy and campaigns, policy consultations, operational collaboration, and information exchange. They provide regular input through
stakeholder consultations, which are now embedded as part of the project cycle
under the Bank’s Environmental and Social Framework and our Citizen Engagement
Framework. At the October 2019 Annual Meetings, the Civil Society Policy Forum
brought together more than 800 CSO representatives from 75 countries. CSOs
have also been strong champions of IDA, supporting a successful IDA19 replenishment in fiscal 2020.
Faith-based organizations. The Bank Group works with faith actors that share our
mission and have proven experience in advancing country outcomes; engagements
include advocacy, relationship building, evidence building, and operations. In fiscal
2020, consultations with faith actors played an important role in supporting the
Bank’s new FCV strategy (see page 62). Extensive consultations also helped inform
our Country Partnership Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Parliamentarians. Through the independent Parliamentary Network, we engage
with over 1,500 legislators from member countries. In 2019, parliamentarians
mobilized around the IDA19 replenishment and advocated for gender equality in
	

PARTNERING TO BOOST DEVELOPMENT IMPACT 	

69

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

parliaments. The Global Parliamentary Workshop at the 2019 Annual Meetings convened more than 60 members of parliament from 35 countries to explore ways to
strengthen country ownership and leadership on fighting inequalities.
Philanthropy and the private sector. We are able to mobilize new ideas and
sources of funding and broaden support for our development mission by partnering with foundations, philanthropists, impact investors, social entrepreneurs,
and the private sector. In fiscal 2020, our long-standing partnership with the Bill
& Melinda Gates Foundation focused on boosting human capital, scaling up digital
financial services, improving monitoring in primary health systems, strengthening
country data analytics, and improving service delivery models. Since the onset of
the COVID-19 pandemic, we have worked closely together on the procurement and
deployment of diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines. We are also joining forces to
help countries cope with the economic repercussions of the pandemic, including
through the expansion of digital platforms to deliver social protection payments.
The 2019 Partnership Forum convened 17 CEOs and senior leaders along with over
30 specialists from the private sector and philanthropy to explore support for the
growth of women-owned businesses.
Local communities. The Bank Group’s Community Connections program helps
staff live our values in our communities through corporate philanthropy, volunteerism, in-kind donations, and an internship program for local high school students.
These efforts leverage our motivated, caring workforce for betterment of the
Washington, D.C., metropolitan area and other communities around the world
where we work. This year, we contributed over $9 million to nongovernmental
organizations in our communities, with over $4 million of it donated by staff. In
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we conducted a staff disaster relief drive,
which raised $1 million for local and international partner organizations, including
the DC Central Kitchen, UNICEF, and the International Rescue Committee. We also
gave more than $190,000 in fiscal 2020 to D.C.-based organizations that work for
racial justice. In June 2020, Community Connections announced an additional
$100,000 in grants to fight racism. The program is adding more new charities to
the workplace giving list so that staff and the institution can more actively support
work to end racism and increase economic opportunities for those who are Black,
Indigenous, or People of Color.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/en/about/partners.
70	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

IMPROVIN G OPER ATIONS FOR
CO U NTRY O UTCOME S
TO BETTER SERVE OUR CLIENTS AND PARTNERS, we continuously work to improve

our operations, policies, and processes; to become a more effective and efficient
institution; and to maximize our development impact.

The World Bank’s Environmental and Social Framework
The Bank’s Environmental and Social Framework (ESF) became effective on October 1, 2018, and applies to all new investment project financing (IPF) operations
with Concept Note meetings on or after this date. It offers broad and systematic
coverage of environmental and social risks and makes important advances in areas
such as transparency, non-discrimination, public participation, protection for vulnerable and disadvantaged people, stakeholder engagement, and accountability,
including grievance mechanisms.
As we implement projects under the framework, we are enhancing our capacity
and staff skills, upgrading operational systems, revising processes, and strengthening borrower capacity to improve risk management. We have issued guidance materials, templates, and other resources on key topics, including non-discrimination
and disability; preventing sexual exploitation, abuse, and sexual harassment; use of
security personnel; road safety; and third-party monitoring. The framework has also
prompted dialogue with borrowers on the new and more explicit requirements, while
new project processes and documents have strengthened transparency, accountability, and stakeholder engagement.
Since contractors are responsible for applying many aspects of its standards, we
have integrated the ESF into procurement processes. Project contracts now reflect
requirements for preventing child and forced labor, ensuring community and occupational health and safety, managing supply chain and inspections, and addressing
sexual exploitation and abuse and sexual harassment.
As part of our rapid response to the COVID-19 pandemic, countries and Bank
teams have prepared emergency projects while maintaining the organization’s
robust environmental and social policies and risk management standards.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/esf.

The World Bank Procurement Framework
The Bank’s Procurement Framework promotes tailored procurement approaches for
investment project finance operations. It allows projects to respond quickly to emerging needs and helps clients determine the best value for money to ensure quality outcomes and sustainability over the life of a project. By focusing on market research,
needs analysis, and project-specific risks, including environmental and social issues,
we help countries develop procurement strategies and plans that meet their needs
and address the operating contexts of projects to ensure successful implementation.
The framework has supported our emergency response to the COVID-19 pandemic; projects have adopted flexible measures for fast-track procurement while
maintaining fiduciary oversight. We acted quickly to introduce Bank-facilitated
procurement for clients who requested help in accessing critically needed medical supplies and equipment as the pandemic drove price volatility, long lead times,
disruption of supply chains, risks to transparency and integrity. This option helps
	

IMPROVING OPERATIONS FOR COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

71

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

countries identify interested suppliers, negotiate prices and conditions, and manage outsourcing logistics, an approach that has been well received by manufacturers, suppliers, and governments alike. Countries remain responsible for signing
and implementing contracts. As of July 2020, 27 contracts worth $105 million were
signed or due to be signed under this approach.
We have scaled up our Hands-On Expanded Implementation Support for procurement, which helps clients implement effective processes, including for operations addressing the impacts of COVID-19. In fiscal 2020, we provided this support
for 70 projects.
Our Alternative Procurement Arrangements (APAs) allow procurement through
other organizations, including other multilateral development banks (MDBs) and
UN agencies, as well as Bank-approved government agencies under Bank-financed
operations; we have used these arrangements with UN agencies to respond in situations affected by fragility, conflict, and violence, including in South Sudan and Yemen.
In fiscal 2020, 19 projects involved APAs with UN agencies and other MDBs.
Following implementation of the Bank’s Environmental and Social Framework, we
revised all of our Standard Procurement Documents (SPDs) for Works to ensure that
contractors hired under the Bank’s financing projects adequately manage environmental and social risks to protect people and the environment. We also enhanced
SPDs and processes to help prevent, mitigate, and manage risks as part of broader,
concerted measures to protect vulnerable communities and address sexual exploitation and abuse and sexual harassment in Bank-financed projects. In fiscal 2020, we
finalized measures to further enhance contractors’ performance and accountability.
And to support fast-tracked operations during COVID-19, we quickly developed a
suite of streamlined emergency SPDs.
The Procurement Framework applies to projects with a concept note on or after
July 1, 2016—thus not yet to all of the projects in the active portfolio. We closely monitor and evaluate the application of the framework at the project, country, regional,
and global levels. In fiscal 2020, 44 percent of the Bank’s investment project portfolio
(36 percent by dollar value) followed the framework’s Procurement Regulations for
IPF Borrowers. By implementing a complaints module in our online tool for procurement planning and monitoring, we are now better able to track complaints related to
procurement. In its first year, this resulted in a 52 percent increase in the number of
complaints recorded. However, only 18 percent of resolved complaints were upheld
in favor of the complainant, which suggests that we are doing well at ensuring fairness and transparency in our processes.
In fiscal 2020, we reviewed 2,072 contracts valued at approximately $7.4 billion
and provided 890 days of capacity-building training and knowledge sharing for
about 18,800 project and government staff.

72	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

To increase access to procurement opportunities under Bank-financed projects,
we launched a free subscription service that provides alerts of procurement notices
and contract-award publications for our operations.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/procurement.

Reforming trust funds for greater efficiency and oversight
Trust funds complement IBRD and IDA by providing financial resources and contributing to development knowledge. They support the global public goods agenda
on key development challenges, including climate change, fragility, forced displacement, and pandemics; help attract new sources of finance; promote innovative financial solutions; and help the Bank exercise its global convening power.
The amount of World Bank funds held in trust at the end of fiscal 2020 was $12.2
billion for trust funds and $24.2 billion for financial intermediary funds (FIFs). Bank
trust funds finance about two-thirds of the Bank’s advisory services and analytics,
with about 74 percent ($14.1 billion) of total trust fund disbursements going to client
countries over fiscal 2016–20. Of this amount, over $11.6 billion has been disbursed
to IDA and IBRD-IDA blend countries. Contributions to FIFs averaged $7.9 billion
annually, while cash transfers to implementing entities remained relatively steady,
with an average annual transfer of $6.2 billion over the past five years.
The key focus of ongoing trust fund reforms is to improve strategic alignment,
increase efficiency, and enhance oversight of this portfolio to deliver solutions for
clients while providing the best value for donors. A key measure is the introduction
of Umbrella 2.0 programs, which will reduce portfolio fragmentation. In fiscal 2020,
the Bank’s global practices and regions reviewed their full portfolio of 526 trust
funds and identified opportunities for consolidation: 70 proposals for Umbrella 2.0
programs will serve as the basis for the majority of future fundraising efforts. We
also updated our FIF Management Framework to strengthen future selectivity by
introducing a menu of options for responding to global calls for collective action.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/dfi.

Grievance Redress Service
The Grievance Redress Service (GRS) is an avenue for people and communities to submit complaints directly to the Bank if they believe a Bankfunded project has adversely affected them or is likely to. It was established
in 2015 based on recommendations from an Independent Evaluation
Group review of the Safeguard Policies. It complements project-level
grievance mechanisms and ensures that complaints received at the corporate level are promptly and proactively addressed by fostering dialogue
and applying relevant dispute resolution tools.
As awareness of the service grew, the caseload rose from four cases
in fiscal 2015 to 225 cases in fiscal 2020. Complaints brought to the GRS
cover a wide spectrum of grievances, including harm to people’s livelihoods, environmental degradation, and occupational health and safety
concerns. Experiences from five years of handling complaints, as well as
internal and external feedback, have allowed us to reflect on what works
and what could be improved in the processes and functioning of the service. We are working to strengthen the GRS, including by establishing policies, updating systems and processes, and further increasing awareness.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/grs.

	

IMPROVING OPERATIONS FOR COUNTRY OUTCOMES 	

73

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

74	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

O U R VALU E S AND O U R STAFF

THE CORE TENET OF OUR WORK is respect for our people, our clients, our partners,

and our planet. Our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index presents further details on
the sustainability considerations of our operations and corporate practices and can
be accessed online as part of the Annual Report appendixes.

Our values
Respect, impact, integrity, teamwork, and innovation are our core values. We have
prepared an updated Code of Ethics to further embed these values into the Bank
Group’s culture and operations. It is a set of principles designed to guide staff to do
the right thing when confronted with ethical dilemmas. The Staff Rules continue to
define the regulations and policies that guard against misconduct.
Increasing diversity and inclusion. In fiscal 2020, the Bank implemented new
indicators to strengthen gender diversity across the institution. Following the successful launch of a virtual reality learning program to address unconscious bias and
raise awareness about sexual orientation and gender identity, we developed a new
program focused on disability inclusion. We were also recertified under the Economic Dividends through Gender Equality program, which recognizes our efforts to
close the gender gap in the workplace.
Action Plan for Preventing and Addressing Sexual Harassment. The Bank
Group is creating a workplace culture that systematically addresses sexual harassment and misconduct. In fiscal 2020, we implemented most recommendations in
the 2019–21 action plan to prevent and address sexual harassment and recruited
an anti-harassment coordinator to address allegations of harassment and sexual
harassment that may not rise to the level of misconduct. The coordinator can
caution staff and managers about alleged inappropriate behaviors. The Ethics and
Business Conduct (EBC) department also deployed training extensively to help
prevent harassment and sexual harassment.
Expanding our global footprint and working in challenging environments. As
we work to scale up our footprint in client countries, we expect that 55 percent of
Bank staff will be based outside the United States by the mid-2020s. This means
having more staff closer to our clients—particularly in countries affected by fragility,
conflict, and violence (FCV)—and empowering teams who work on the front lines.
In fiscal 2020, we achieved our IDA18 policy commitment to expand our presence
on the ground by 150 staff in low-income countries affected by FCV. We launched
a recruitment drive to fill 100 positions in countries affected by FCV, in line with the
Bank’s new FCV strategy and our commitment under IDA19 to further increase our
footprint in these countries. We are also implementing a revamped approach to
career mobility to enable more staff to move across regions, countries, and different
parts of our operations; we are developing a new framework for mobility benefits.

Our people
In fiscal 2020, we developed a three-year strategy for the Bank’s nearly 12,300
full-time staff to build a workforce with the right skills, in the right place, at the right
time to help solve the world’s pressing development challenges. It seeks to offer
the best value to clients and to ensure that our organization is the best place to
work in development.
	

OUR VALUES AND OUR STAFF 	

75

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

During the COVID-19 pandemic, we are providing wide-ranging support to
address the needs of our workforce amid the rapid transition to home-based work
at headquarters and country offices (see box, “Supporting our workforce during the
COVID-19 pandemic,” on page 77). Through this support, we have helped ensure
business continuity and ongoing support to our clients. Results from a staff survey
showed that 90 percent of our staff adjusted well or fairly well to home-based work,
and 88 percent reported that they were able to remain fairly productive or very productive during this period.
The heightened global awareness around racial injustice and systemic racism has
sparked valuable discussions about the need to enhance how we value diversity, dignity, respect, and inclusion in our institution. In June 2020, President David Malpass
announced the establishment of a World Bank Group Task Force on Racism that will
identify areas of action, offer concrete recommendations to address this challenge,
and continue to provide a safe space for staff to raise issues and concerns. The Bank
Group’s senior leadership team has committed to working closely with all staff to do
all we can to end racism in our institution, our programs, and our communities.
Ensuring staff health and safety. The Bank Group provides an array of programs
and services to promote and protect the health and security of staff through services
focusing on personal health and wellness, occupational health and safety, and mental health and well-being. In the second half of fiscal 2020, the priority focus shifted
to the COVID-19 response (see box, “Supporting our workforce during the COVID-19
pandemic,” on page 77).
Engaging in continuous learning and skills development. With the Bank
Group’s Open Learning Campus (OLC), staff have the opportunity to learn continuously through a broad range of learning resources as they carry out our mission,
including online courses, peer-to-peer conversations, and on-the-job learning. In
fiscal 2020, this effort grew to support 30 units across the Bank Group, launched a
manager’s dashboard for easy access to staff learning indicators, upgraded evaluations for mentoring and on-the-job activities, and released a personalized version of
OLC with curated learning paths.
Implementing the Knowledge Management Action Plan. To enhance operational efficiency and effectiveness, we updated our internal solutions to better identify in-house expertise and recruit external consultants. We have revised our content
management approach and conducted comprehensive analyses to address wider
TABLE 14 WORLD BANK (IBRD/IDA) STAFF DATA, FISCAL 2018–20
INDICATOR

Total full-time staff
Non-US based (%)
Short-term consultants/temporaries
(FTEs)
Employee engagement (%)

FY18

FY19

FY20

12,216

12,283

12,394

42.6

43.2

53

4,810

5,097

5,521

—

79

77

0.86

0.88

0.89

Administrative and Support Staff (%)

17.3

17.5

17.4

Entry and Junior Technical (%)

2.0

2.8

2.7

Senior Technical (%)

7.3

6.8

6.5

Managers (%)

Diversity index

RELATED INDICATORS

GRI 401; SDG 8

*Gender Balance: deviation from
50/50 (Target: <2%)

6.6

3.9

2.8

Average days of training per staff, at
headquarters

5.1

5.1

3.6

Average days of training per staff,
in country offices

4.4

4.7

3.2

GRI 404; SDG 8

Note: – = not available; FTE = full-time equivalent (staff); GRI = Global Reporting Initiative. There was no Engagement Survey in fiscal 2018; *‘Gender Balance’ is defined as 50% men and 50% women, with a+/-2% margin.

76	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

Supporting our workforce during the COVID-19 pandemic
In response to COVID-19, we implemented measures to protect our global workforce,
including health and safety support, financial assistance, and flexible remote work policies, with a focus on staff and dependents in vulnerable locations. Efforts included:
•	 An online hub for staff to access up-to-date information and guidance on the pandemic, including information for country offices.
•	 Access to health and safety advice, including tracing and counseling of confirmed
cases and potential contacts for staff who contracted the illness, as well as support
through virtual appointments and services through an onsite external provider.
•	 An off-site testing location through an external provider for staff at headquarters
who have symptoms.
•	 Financial support for staff and consultants seeking medical treatment or advice,
including advance payments and an emergency loan program for staff.
•	 For staff affected by the pandemic, assistance in case management, risk assessment, and professional guidance and advice, in coordination with country offices
as needed.
•	 Extensive psychosocial support, including webinars, counseling sessions, and
peer-support groups, to help staff cope with stress and anxiety.
•	 Upward of 800,000 face masks and other personal protective equipment for
staff in Bank Group offices, as well as help for those struggling to access prescription medications.
•	 Monitoring of scenarios that could result in domestic violence, with enhanced
resources to address unsafe situations for staff or their families.
•	 Remote support for staff to set up an ergonomic home office.
•	 Access to the dedicated UN medical evacuation initiative, in close cooperation with
interagency partners.
We have developed preparedness plans and risk-management guidance for offices
and processes, including guidance for safe reopening. The Staff Association also provided financial assistance to members in need, helping reduce their financial burdens
from economic shocks. The OLC launched virtual training options for clients on health,
social protection, jobs, and economic growth and offered fully virtual courses for staff
as they transitioned to home-based work.
In line with our fiduciary obligations, we facilitated sound commercial and riskmanagement decisions for corporate procurement and vendor management, includ-

ing special measures to ensure supply chain continuity and fair treatment of
vendors during COVID-19. As we shifted to home-based work, we continued
paying our contractors to mitigate hardship and ensure they
can return to work when normal
operations resume.
Looking ahead, we are developing a plan to enable the safe and
gradual return to the workplace at
headquarters and country offices,
taking into account local conditions and guidelines, ensuring
appropriate health measures and
safeguards, and recognizing the
individual circumstances of staff.

	

OUR VALUES AND OUR STAFF 	

77

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

issues in knowledge management. We developed effective collaboration networks to
build successful communities of practice through training, advising, and customized
technical assistance.
Safe place for staff to address concerns and conflicts. EBC addresses and
investigates allegations of misconduct. A new anti-harassment coordinator position
was set up within the unit to prevent and address all types of harassment in the institution. In fiscal 2020, 1,291 queries were answered in less than 8 working hours on
average. Through our Internal Justice Services, staff have channels to seek advice,
guidance, and resources to resolve conflicts, including Ombuds Services, Respectful
Workplace Advisors, Mediation, Peer Review Services, and Performance Management Review. These services facilitate a respectful, values-driven, and ethics-based
workplace culture; in fiscal 2020, about 1,750 staff approached them for advice.
Representing staff voice. The World Bank Group Staff Association represents
the rights and interests of staff and consultants to senior management and the
Board. In fiscal 2020, it relayed concerns about organizational changes, challenges
posed by the amended compensation methodology, health coverage policies, and
occupational health matters. It created a website for health insurance coverage for
headquarters-based short-term temporaries and consultants, as well as working
groups on staff disability and environmental sustainability. To strengthen its country
office network, the association hosted representatives from over 80 countries at a
forum in October 2019.

Our places
Strengthening environmental commitment in our own operations. The Bank
Group manages the environmental, social, and economic impacts of its internal
business operations by striving for net positive impacts on the ecosystems, communities, and economies where we have offices. We measure, reduce, offset, and
report on emissions from our facilities, major meetings, and business travel. In fiscal
2020, we signed the Cool Food Pledge, committing to reduce food-related emissions
from cafeterias, coffee bars, and catering operations at headquarters by 25 percent
by 2030. A headquarters-wide waste system instituted in fiscal 2019 significantly
increased waste diversion in the affected buildings. The Bank Group has committed
to reducing its facilities-related emissions by 28 percent by 2026. To maximize our
facilities’ operational efficiency, we commissioned a series of audits for buildings at
headquarters, including for water, waste, and energy, as well as in country offices,
starting with two of our larger offices, in Chennai, India, and Nairobi, Kenya. Carbon
emissions that are not reduced are offset through a portfolio of Carbon Emissions
Reductions. The Bank also purchases Renewable Energy Certificates equivalent to
100 percent of our headquarters electricity use. Details are available in the Carbon
Disclosure Project disclosures.

Our supply chain
Building a sustainable supply chain. The Bank Group’s Sustainable Procurement
Framework integrates sustainability throughout our corporate procurement process.
It addresses the environmental, social, and economic impacts of our purchases while
identifying opportunities to align corporate spending with operational priorities, such
as gender, climate change, and addressing FCV. In fiscal 2020, we continued to make
progress toward the goal of doubling corporate procurement from women-owned
businesses to 7 percent of our total procurement spend by 2023. In fiscal 2020,
4 percent of this was with women-owned businesses. In addition, we launched the
Minority Business Enterprise Program, aimed at boosting engagement with our local
community by enhancing the support to local minority-owned businesses.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility.
78	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

GUIDIN G THE INSTITUTION
ALL THE POWERS OF THE WORLD BANK are vested in the Board of Governors,

the Bank’s senior decision making body, according to the Articles of Agreement
for IBRD and IDA. Each member country of the Bank is represented by one governor and one alternate.
The Board of Governors delegates most powers to 25 resident Executive Directors who comprise the Board of Directors for IBRD and IDA. The Executive Directors
represent the World Bank’s 189 member countries and are responsible for the
conduct of the general operations of the Bank. The Executive Directors select a President, who serves as Chair of the Board. The current Board term is from November
2018 through October 2020.
The Executive Directors guide the Bank’s general operations and strategic direction and represent member countries’ viewpoints on the Bank’s role. They consider
and decide on proposals made by the President for IBRD and IDA loans, credits,
grants, and guarantees; policies; the administrative budget; and other operational
and financial matters. They also discuss Country Partnership Frameworks—the
central tool by which management and the Board review and guide the Bank Group’s
engagement with client countries and support for development programs. The Executive Directors are also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors an audit
of accounts, an administrative budget, and the Bank’s annual report on fiscal year
results. The Dean, the longest serving full-time Executive Director, plays a role within
the Board related to the contract of the President, selection of members to the Board
Ethics Committee, and coordination of the Board’s external engagements, among
other issues.
The Board has five standing committees and one ad hoc committee. Executive
Directors serve on one or more of these committees, which help the Board discharge
its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies and practices.
The Executive Directors’ Steering Committee, on which all Executive Directors serve,
meets bimonthly to discuss the Board’s strategic work program. Through its committees, the Board regularly engages on the effectiveness of Bank Group activities
with management and with the independent Inspection Panel and the Independent
Evaluation Group, both of which report directly to the Board.

FIGURE 7 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Steering Committee for the World Bank Group’s Board
Audit Committee
Oversees the Bank’s
finances, accounting, risk
management, internal
controls, and institutional
integrity.

Committee on Governance
and Executive Directors’
Administrative Matters
Guides the governance of the Bank,
the Board’s own effectiveness, and
the administrative policy applicable
to Executive Directors’ offices.

	

Budget Committee
Assists the Board in
approving the Bank’s
budgets.

Committee on Development
Effectiveness
Assesses the Bank’s development
effectiveness, guides its strategic
directions, and monitors the quality
and results of its operations.

Human Resources
Committee
Oversees responsibility on
the Bank’s human resources
strategy, policies, and
practices, and their alignment
with the institutions’
business needs.

Ethics Committee
Established in 2003 to
consider, on an ad hoc basis,
matters relating to the
interpretation or application
of the Code of Conduct
for Board Officials.

GUIDING THE INSTITUTION 	

79

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

80	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

ENSU RIN G OVERSIGHT AND
ACCOU NTABILIT Y OF O U R OPER ATIONS
WE HOLD OURSELVES ACCOUNTABLE through institutional mechanisms—both

within and independent of the Bank—that monitor operational performance, manage institutional risks, address concerns and grievances, and ensure transparency in
our work. They provide guidance and recommendations to ensure maximum development effectiveness and adherence to the highest accountability standards.

Independent Evaluation Group
The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) aims to strengthen the Bank Group’s development effectiveness through evaluations that assess results and performance
and provide recommendations for improvements. It helps inform the Bank Group’s
directions, policies and procedures, and programs. In fiscal 2020, IEG completed
evaluations on convening power, urban resilience, and social contracts. Each evaluation assessed the Bank Group’s performance and identified lessons for enhancing
operations regarding a theme, sector, or corporate process.
Reforms in fiscal 2020 aimed to increase IEG’s relevance and value. The reorganized work program is based on streams reflecting Bank Group strategic priorities,
such as fragility, conflict, and violence; gender; and mobilizing finance for development. A new focus on evaluation sequencing and work program flexibility has positioned IEG to deliver timely reports to inform key decisions. Examples include an
evaluation of the Philippines program, which coincided with the design of the new
country partnership framework, and a mid-term review of the Gender Strategy.
IEG’s flagship series, Results and Performance of the World Bank Group, is transforming to provide big-picture analysis of how the different institutions deliver on
key goals and more detailed evidence on the performance of country programs
and projects.
For more information and IEG’s annual report, visit ieg.worldbankgroup.org.

Inspection Panel
The Inspection Panel was established by the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors to
provide people who believe they have been harmed by a Bank-funded project with
access to an independent body where they can express their concerns and seek
recourse. During fiscal 2020, the Panel received 13 complaints. The Board considered a panel investigation report related to two projects in Uganda concerning a
biodiversity offset. The panel submitted to the Board another investigation report
involving a project in India and neared completion of a third investigation report
related to a project in Brazil.
A Board review that concluded in fiscal 2020 led to the establishment of an
expanded independent accountability mechanism. When operational, this mechanism will comprise the panel, which will carry out compliance reviews, and a
new dispute resolution unit. The Board also approved measures to (i) extend the
time limit under which complaints can be submitted to the panel to 15 months
beyond project closure; and (ii) allow independent and proportionate risk-based
verification, when approved by the Board, of the implementation of Management
Action Plans (MAPs) developed in response to panel findings. Earlier in its review,
the Board formalized the panel’s advisory function and authorized the Bank to
	

ENSURING OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF OUR OPERATIONS 	

81

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

provide complainants with an opportunity to read panel investigation reports
before consultations on the development of MAPs.
For more information and the Inspection Panel’s annual report,
visit www.inspectionpanel.org.

Integrity Vice Presidency
Reflecting the Bank Group’s commitment to fight and prevent corruption, the
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) investigates allegations of fraud and corruption in
Bank Group–financed projects and those involving Bank Group staff and corporate vendors. As an independent unit within the institution, INT plays a fundamental
role in supporting the Bank Group’s fiduciary responsibility over the development
resources it manages: it pursues sanctions against outside firms and individuals
and discipline against staff who are found to have engaged in fraud, corruption, and
other sanctionable practices. Following sanctioning decisions, the Integrity Compliance Office (ICO) engages with sanctioned firms and individuals to work toward
meeting their conditions for release from sanction. INT also works closely with operational teams to identify and draw lessons about effectively mitigating integrity risks
in future projects. Efforts this year helped identify and mitigate integrity risks in 14
sectors across 53 countries.
In fiscal 2020, the Bank Group sanctioned 49 firms and individuals via uncontested
determinations of the Bank’s Chief Suspension and Debarment Officer, decisions of
the Bank Group Sanctions Board, and settlement agreements. We also recognized
72 cross-debarments from other multilateral development banks (MDBs), and
38 Bank Group debarments were eligible for recognition by other MDBs. The ICO
released 18 firms from sanction after they met agreed-upon conditions.
As project development accelerated during the Bank Group’s COVID-19 response,
INT provided additional support by identifying integrity risks in relevant sectors and
providing guidance to help mitigate these risks within the projects’ designs. INT also
developed digital tools to monitor integrity risks across the Bank Group’s portfolio
of COVID-19 operations, along with systems for rapid notification of complaints, to
more effectively respond to these risks.
For more information and the World Bank Group Sanctions System’s annual
report, visit www.worldbank.org/integrity.
To report suspected fraud or corruption in World Bank Group–financed
projects, visit www.worldbank.org/fraudandcorruption.

Group Internal Audit Vice Presidency
To help the Bank Group effectively serve clients, the Group Internal Audit Vice-Presidency (GIA) collaborates with risk management and governance functions within
management, as well as with other oversight and accountability units, to provide
valuable assurance, advice, and insight. GIA gives senior management and the Board
reasonable assurance that processes for managing and controlling risks—as well as
their overall governance—are adequately designed and functioning effectively. GIA
delivers audits, as well as assurance and advisory reviews, which cover all key institutional areas: strategy operations, finance, and corporate functions, including IT
systems and processes. Its work is carried out in accordance with the Institute of
Internal Auditors’ International Professional Practices Framework.
GIA focuses on institutional and stakeholder priorities and significant risks; it
delivers about 25 engagements a year covering both advisory and assurance work.
Key topics in fiscal 2020 included management of environment and social risk, procurement risk and legal risk of projects, integrity due diligence of business counterparts, knowledge management, staff safety and security, the Global Payments
Program, loan pricing, mobile technology, and cybersecurity.
82	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

In light of the Bank Group’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, GIA is performing audits remotely and adjusting the scope, priority, and timing of engagements as
necessary. It is reviewing components of the COVID-19 Fast Track Facility to provide
early feedback to management and advice on business continuity. To help the Bank
Group quickly deliver client programs, GIA is collaborating with management and
other risk functions to provide effective assurance, advice, and insight.
For more information and GIA’s annual and quarterly reports, visit
www.worldbank.org/internalaudit.

The World Bank Policy on Access to Information
The Bank’s Policy on Access to Information has made us a global leader in transparency and led to groundbreaking change in how we make information publicly
available. The public has access to more of our information than ever before,
including details about projects under preparation or implementation, analytic
and advisory activities, and Board proceedings. In fiscal 2020, the Bank received
589 information requests and declassified 153,264 pages of archival records. It
also digitized 98,880 pages of archival records and made them available through
the Bank’s Projects and Operations database and the Bank Group’s Archives.
For requests that are denied, the public can appeal by alleging a violation of
policy and/or the public interest. The internal Access to Information Committee
serves as the first level of appeals, and its decisions are final for appeals alleging
a public interest ground. A second and final recourse for appeals alleging a violation of policy is available through the external and independent Appeals Board.
In fiscal 2020, the Committee considered one case, and one complaint was filed
before the Board.
For more information and to submit public access requests for information to
the World Bank, visit www.worldbank.org/en/access-to-information.

	

ENSURING OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF OUR OPERATIONS 	

83

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

84	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY

Helping countries address the COVID-19 crisis
The Bank Group is drawing on our financial capacity, global partnerships, and convening power to help countries combat the COVID-19 pandemic and shorten the
time to economic and social recovery. The recent capital increases for IBRD and
IFC and the IDA19 replenishment are enabling our strong response to the crisis.
We are prepared to provide countries with $160 billion in financing over 15 months
through June 2021.
For the health response to COVID-19, in fiscal 2020, IBRD and IDA approved
a total of 76 operations amounting to $3.8 billion through a dedicated fast-track
facility. This includes our global $6 billion Health Strategic Preparedness and
Response Program, which was launched in April 2020. We are providing broad and
fast support to help countries address their immediate health needs and bolster
economic recovery, employing for the first time a global multiphase programmatic
approach (MPA), which has shortened preparation times for emergency support
to client countries. With country authorities, we also helped redirect $2.5 billion in
existing projects in 63 countries, using instruments that allow for operational flexibility in emergency situations, such as projects’ contingent emergency response
components. In countries that have active development policy operations with
Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Options (CAT-DDOs), rapid access to financing
supported the response to the pandemic, including in Colombia, Morocco, and the
Independent State of Samoa.
The Bank Group developed a high-level approach to the policy response to the
pandemic’s health, economic, and social impacts. The financing needs of developing
countries have increased significantly, with tax revenues depressed by low economic
activity and higher expenditures to protect the poor and vulnerable, support those
who lost jobs, and sustain government services, such as education.

Prioritizing strategic interventions across the
World Bank Group
The World Bank—IBRD and IDA—works in close coordination with IFC and MIGA
to leverage the collective strength of the Bank Group. Our comparative advantage
comes from the powerful combination of country depth and global breadth, public
and private sector relationships, multisectoral knowledge, and the ability to mobilize financing to support countries’ development priorities. Collaboration across the
Bank Group has grown over time and spans activities at the sector, thematic, country, regional, and global levels.
We help countries build stronger systems and institutions and extend the impact
of policy and institutional reforms beyond the boundaries of a single project. We monitor development effectiveness through a robust results framework, as well as through
our corporate reporting, which aggregates development results in terms of our key
institutional priorities. By learning from evidence and results, we continually improve
our support to countries and help them achieve good development outcomes.
	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

85

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

We have become a trusted advisor and honest broker for clients by fostering longterm relationships, deepening our country knowledge, innovating in our operations,
adhering to the highest standards, and expanding our presence on the ground. We
work in the world’s most difficult settings—in fragile and conflict-affected states and
where poverty is most entrenched—while maintaining portfolio quality. Our partnerships help shape and amplify global development priorities. Our coordination with
development partners and governments has helped secure focused financing on the
most urgent needs in the response to COVID-19. We have also served as a convening platform to help countries secure critical medical equipment and supplies using
Bank-facilitated procurement. And through greater use of contingent instruments,
such as disaster insurance and CAT-DDOs, we help countries build capacity for crisis
response and enhance resilience.

Defining our engagement with countries
The Bank Group has a systematic, evidence-based model for providing financial, analytic, and advisory services to countries, with a focus on strong country ownership
and good development outcomes. The Country Partnership Framework (CPF) articulates the strategic goals of the Bank Group’s engagement with a country for a period
of four to six years, while retaining flexibility to support countries in rapidly changing
global and national circumstances, as is currently the case due to COVID-19. It is the
central tool for management and the Board when reviewing and guiding the Bank
Group’s country programs. The Bank, IFC, and MIGA jointly prepare the CPFs by:
•	 Taking into account the country’s vision of its development goals;
•	 Drawing on the analytical findings and priorities of the Systematic Country Diagnostic (SCD), prepared by staff in close consultation with national authorities, the
private sector, and other stakeholders;
•	 Considering the Bank Group’s comparative advantage; and
•	 Aligning with the Bank Group’s development goals.
The CPF includes a results framework of agreed-upon outputs and outcomes for activities under implementation and for planned activities; this can be adjusted to incorporate our response to changing country needs and to external or domestic shocks.
This process has been in place since July 2014. In fiscal 2020, the Bank Group
prepared SCDs in 11 countries and new CPFs in 11 countries.
We offer countries a variety of instruments and approaches that help them best
achieve their development goals; these include investment project financing, which
helps build physical and social infrastructure and develop institutional capacity;
development policy financing, which supports borrowers in addressing policy and
institutional actions and reforms, including through guarantees; and Program-forResults financing, which supports client programs and links the disbursement of
funds directly to the delivery of defined results.
The MPA, introduced in fiscal 2018, structures complex country and multicountry engagements as a set of linked phases within one program. It centers on
adaptable design and learning from implementation to ensure that operations are
more responsive to evolving country and project circumstances. In fiscal 2020, we
applied the approach globally for the first time to support health operations in 75
countries, including 25 countries affected by FCV and 11 small states, to help address
COVID-19. This global MPA enabled an integrated approach with common objectives
across sectors and regions to deal with the emergency, while allowing for tailored
adjustments to maximize results. We also launched the Emergency Locust Response
Program, a $500 million cross-regional MPA, to help countries in Africa and the
Middle East fight the locust swarms that are threatening food security and livelihoods for millions of people.

86	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Achieving strong results since its introduction in 2012, the Program-for-Results
instrument was mainstreamed across the Bank in fiscal 2020, following the removal
of a 15 percent cap on its use in operations financed by IBRD and IDA. We also continued to review and refine our use of results-based financing in investment project financing operations, incorporating lessons learned on how to more effectively
strengthen project outcomes.
The Bank Group helps small states address their unique development challenges
through the Small States Forum. It comprises 50 members—42 countries classified
as small states by the Bank and eight with larger populations that face similar challenges—and meets semi-annually at the World Bank–IMF Spring and Annual Meetings. At the October 2019 Annual Meetings, UN Secretary-General António Guterres
and Bank Group President David Malpass discussed economic and financial resilience, climate adaptation, and the suite of Bank instruments tailored to small states.

Addressing development challenges through technical
advice and analysis
Advisory Services and Analytics (ASAs) are crucial to how the World Bank contributes to development. Countries use our analytical and technical advice to sustain
development over the long term by implementing better policies and development
strategies and strengthening institutions. At the country level, this work under­pins CPFs, government programs, and projects supported by Bank lending and
guarantees. At the regional and global levels, ASAs contribute to public goods and
inform policy debates.
In fiscal 2020, we produced 1,515 ASA products in over 140 countries. They
addressed key topics such as economic policy, human development, social pro­
tection, governance, urban and rural development, and climate and the environment. In the Sahel, ASAs provided knowledge, capacity building, and timely
assistance for developing, implementing, and evaluating adaptive social protection
systems and programs.
Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS) are requested and paid for by country
clients; all member states are able to request these services, including nonborrowing countries. In fiscal 2020, we produced 92 RAS products for 27 countries.
RAS provided technical assistance, capacity building, and implementation support
to countries on various topics, including public financial management, social protection programs, national reforms for quality education, and centralized health
sector procurement.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/asa.

Valuing the opinions of country stakeholders
The World Bank Group Country Opinion Survey Program annually assesses
the views of thousands of decision makers and influencers across borrowing countries. In fiscal 2019, about 10,000 opinion leaders in more than
40 countries responded to the survey. Key findings demonstrate that our
current areas of emphasis—including building human capital, creating
jobs, addressing corruption, and improving governance—align well with
stakeholders’ top priorities.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

87

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

Maintaining budget discipline to maximize the use of
financial resources
As part of the IBRD capital increase package agreed upon in 2018, we have committed to additional and continuous efficiencies and economies of scale to help
maintain budget sustainability and strengthen the Bank’s financial position. Ongoing
measures to improve efficiency and productivity, including through optimization of
organizational processes and effective use of technology, will help contain some of
the rising costs of doing business that we face as we deliver a growing and more
complex work program. We have established a comprehensive monitoring framework for the implementation of budget commitments under the capital package to
achieve and track cumulative efficiencies and economies of scale on a yearly basis.
The Bank is implementing a significant program to support client countries’
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, helping them cope with the health, social, and
economic impacts and build conditions for a fast, sustainable, and resilient recovery
worldwide. While prioritizing the COVID-19 response, the Bank will continue efforts
to deliver on other interventions to support the twin goals of ending extreme poverty
and boosting shared prosperity and the key priorities and commitments of the IBRD
capital package, the IDA19 replenishment, and the FCV strategy. These commitments
will result in substantial program growth in priority areas, especially in poorer and
smaller countries and those affected by FCV. They will also support critical themes,
including: broadening access to critical infrastructure, digital financial services and
social protection; enhancing human capital; promoting growth and development of
the private sector; promoting good governance and the rule of law, as well as debt
and investment transparency; addressing climate change and low-carbon goals;
and building resilience to exogenous shocks.

IBRD financial commitments and services
IBRD is a global development cooperative owned by its 189 member countries. As
the largest multilateral development bank in the world, it provides loans, guarantees,
risk management products, and advisory services to middle-income and creditworthy
low-income countries, and coordinates responses to regional and global challenges.
In fiscal 2020, new IBRD lending commitments amounted to $28.0 billion for
152 operations, of which 10 were IBRD and IDA blended operations.
For monitoring, reporting, and better decision making about its commitments,
the Bank applies a taxonomy of codes to all lending operations to reflect the sectors
and themes to which it directs resources. Sector codes reflect high-level groupings
of economic activities based on the types of goods and services produced, and are
used to indicate which part of the economy is supported by the Bank’s intervention.
Theme codes reflect the goals and objectives of Bank-supported activities and are
used to capture the Bank’s support to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
TABLE 15 IBRD COMMITMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2016–20
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

FY16

FY17

FY18

669

1,163

1,120

820

East Asia and Pacific

5,176

4,404

3,981

4,030

4,770

Europe and Central Asia

7,039

4,569

3,550

3,749

5,699

Latin America and the Caribbean

8,035

5,373

3,898

5,709

6,798

Middle East and North Africa

5,170

4,869

5,945

4,872

3,419

South Asia

3,640

2,233

4,508

4,011

5,565

29,729

22,611

23,002

23,191

27,976

Africa

Total

88	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

FY19

FY20

1,725

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

TABLE 16 IBRD DISBURSEMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2016–20
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

Africa
East Asia and Pacific

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

874

427

734

690

1,087

5,205

3,961

3,476

5,048

4,679

Europe and Central Asia

5,167

2,799

4,134

2,209

3,100

Latin America and the Caribbean

5,236

3,885

4,066

4,847

5,799

Middle East and North Africa

4,427

5,335

3,281

4,790

2,415

South Asia
Total

1,623

1,454

1,698

2,598

3,158

22,532

17,861

17,389

20,182

20,238

TABLE 17 IBRD COMMITMENTS BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2016–20
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
SECTOR

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

561

754

2,561

1,025

1,767

Education

1,788

1,074

1,685

1,875

1,135

Energy and Extractives

4,599

4,434

3,084

2,847

2,053

Financial Sector

2,657

1,879

764

2,299

3,702

Health
Industry, Trade, and Services
Information and Communications
 Technologies
Public Administration

1,181

1,189

2,204

1,674

3,980

3,348

2,694

3,416

2,361

2,208

194

503

324

611

886

5,111

4,754

2,189

5,327

4,301

Social Protection

1,393

778

2,091

2,115

4,786

Transportation

4,569

2,551

2,074

1,485

1,323

Water, Sanitation, and Waste
 Management

4,192

2,000

2,610

1,571

1,834

29,729

22,611

23,002

23,191

27,976

Total

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector categories have
replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal year data reported
here have been revised to reflect the new categories and therefore may not match figures published in previous
annual reports. Please visit projects.worldbank.org/sector for more information on changes.

TABLE 18 IBRD COMMITMENTS BY THEME, FISCAL 2017–20
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

Economic Policy

1,677

1,124

1,363

1,000

Environment and Natural Resources
 Management

7,237

10,409

8,514

9,423

Finance

3,330

2,501

3,546

5,304

Human Development and Gender

2,687

6,641

7,227

12,799

Private Sector Development

5,741

4,945

4,438

4,936

Public Sector Management

3,516

1,353

2,912

3,206

939

2,844

2,453

4,721

5,937

8,593

6,511

6,777

Social Development and Protection
Urban and Rural Development

Note: As of fiscal 2017, new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal
data modernization effort. Because lending commitments for individual operations can be applied to multiple
theme categories, figures organized by theme do not add up to fiscal year commitment totals, and therefore
should not be summed. Past fiscal year theme data have been remapped but not revised according to the
new methodology. As they are no longer directly comparable, historical data are not included here. Please visit
projects.worldbank.org/theme for more information on changes.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

89

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

TABLE 19 IBRD TOP COUNTRY BORROWERS, FISCAL 2020
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
COUNTRY

COMMITMENTS

COUNTRY

COMMITMENTS

India

4,580

Angola

1,380

Philippines

1,870

Colombia

1,250

Turkey

1,855

Mexico

1,230

Indonesia

1,660

China

1,200

Egypt, Arab Republic of

1,450

Morocco

1,110

IBRD financial resources and financial model
IBRD finances its loans from its own equity and from money borrowed in the capital markets through the issuance of IBRD bonds to fund development projects in
member countries. IBRD is rated Aaa by Moody’s and AAA by Standard & Poor’s, and
investors view its bonds as high-quality securities. Against the backdrop of a global
liquidity crisis and the challenges presented by COVID-19, IBRD’s funding approach
is aimed at achieving the best long-term value on a sustainable basis for borrowing
members. IBRD’s ability to intermediate the funds it raises in international capital
markets to developing member countries is important in helping to achieve its goals.
All IBRD bonds support sustainable development. IBRD issues its securities
through both global offerings and bond issues tailored to the needs of specific markets or investor types. Its bonds connect the private and public sectors to the Bank’s
development goals through investors such as asset managers, insurance companies,
pension funds, central banks, corporations, and bank treasuries from around the
world. IBRD issues bonds to investors in various currencies, maturities, and markets,
and at fixed and variable terms. It often opens new markets for international investors by issuing new products or bonds in emerging market currencies. IBRD’s annual
funding volumes vary from year to year.
IBRD’s approach has enabled it to borrow at favorable market terms and pass
the savings on to its borrowing members. Funds not immediately deployed for
lending are held in IBRD’s investment portfolio to provide liquidity for its operations.
In fiscal 2020, IBRD raised $75 billion by issuing bonds in a variety of currencies.
As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn enough
income to ensure the long-term financial capacity necessary to sustain its development activities. Of fiscal 2020 allocable net income, the Executive Directors approved
the allocation of $950 million to the General Reserve and recommended to the
Board of Governors the transfer of $431 million to the Surplus. The transfer to the
Surplus includes $331 million, reflecting the amount produced by the formula-based
approach for transfers to IDA from allocable income for fiscal 2020. Management and
FIGURE 8 IBRD BUSINESS MODEL

Investments

Other development activities

90	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

IDA and trust funds

Loans
Income

Borrowings

Equity

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

TABLE 20 IBRD KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2016–20
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS, WHICH ARE IN PERCENTAGES
INDICATOR

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

Lending highlights
Commitmentsa

29,729

22,611

23,002

23,191

27,976

Gross disbursements

22,532

17,861

17,389

20,182

20,238

13,197

8,731

5,638

10,091

10,622

Net disbursements
Reported basis

Income statements
Board of Governors-approved
 and other transfers

(178)

(338)

495

(237)

698

505

231,408

258,648

263,800

283,031

51,760

71,667

73,492

81,127

82,485

Net loans outstanding

167,643

177,422

183,588

192,752

202,158

Borrowing portfolio

178,231

207,144

213,652

228,763

237,231

593

795

1,161

1,190

1,381

96

672

913

831

950

497

123

248

259

—

—

—

—

100

431

39,424

41,720

43,518

45,360

47,138

22.7

22.8

22.9

22.8

22.8

Net income/(loss)

(705)

(497)

(340)
(42)

Balance sheet
Total assets
Net investment portfolio

296,804

Allocable income
Allocable income
Allocated as follows:
  General Reserveb
 International Development
  Association
 Surplus
Usable equity c,d
Capital adequacy
Equity-to-loans ratio (%)

Note: For a complete presentation of fiscal year data, see the full financial statements:
www.worldbank.org/financialresults.
a.	Amounts are net of full terminations/cancellations approved in the same fiscal year and include guarantee
commitments and guarantee facilities that have been approved by the Executive Directors.
b.	The June 30, 2020, amount represents the proposed transfer to the General Reserve from fiscal 2020 net
income, which was approved on August 7, 2020, by the Board.
c.	Excluding amounts associated with unrealized mark-to-market gains/losses on non-trading portfolios, net and
related cumulative translation adjustments.
d.	 Usable equity includes the proposed transfer to the General Reserve.

the Board proposed to hold this amount in the Surplus, as a measure of prudence in
view of the current uncertain outlook due to the COVID-19 crisis, so as to retain the
option of subsequently deciding to use those funds to strengthen its reserves in a
downside scenario. As part of its lending, borrowing, and investment activities, IBRD
is exposed to market, counterparty, country credit, and operational risks.
The Bank Group’s Chief Risk Officer leads the risk oversight function and supports the institutional decision making process via dedicated risk committees. In
addition, IBRD has put in place a strong risk management framework, which supports management in its oversight functions. The framework is designed to enable
and support IBRD in achieving its goals in a financially sustainable manner. One summary measure of IBRD’s risk profile is the ratio of equity to loans, which is closely
managed in line with its financial and risk outlook. As of June 30, 2020, this ratio
stood at 22.8 percent, and the cumulative subscribed capital of IBRD totaled $288.0
billion, including $18.0 billion in paid-in capital.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/ibrd.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

91

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

IDA financial commitments and services
IDA is the world’s largest multilateral source of concessional financing for the poorest countries. It provides financing in the form of development loans, grants, and
guarantees to help these countries increase economic growth, reduce poverty, and
improve the living conditions of the poor.
In fiscal 2020, 76 countries were eligible for IDA assistance, with Somalia becoming active during the fiscal year. In addition, three countries—Bolivia, Sri Lanka, and
Vietnam, which graduated at the end of the IDA17 cycle—received exceptional transitional support from IDA. New IDA lending commitments amounted to $30.4 billion for 305 operations, of which 10 were IBRD and IDA blended operations. These
commitments included $22.4 billion in credits, $8.0 billion in grants, and $25 million
of IDA resources to back guarantees. In addition, 35 projects and sub-projects for
a total of $792 million were approved for support from the IDA18 IFC-MIGA Private
Sector Window (PSW) during the fiscal year.
For monitoring, reporting, and better decision making about its commitments,
the Bank applies a taxonomy of codes to all lending operations to reflect the sectors
and themes to which it directs resources. Sector codes reflect high-level groupings
of economic activities based on the types of goods and services produced; these are
used to indicate which part of the economy is supported by the Bank’s intervention.
Theme codes reflect the goals and objectives of Bank-supported activities and are
used to capture our support to the SDGs.

TABLE 21 IDA COMMITMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2016–20 
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

Africa

8,677

10,679

15,411

14,187

19,095

East Asia and Pacific

2,324

2,703

631

1,272

2,500

Europe and Central Asia

233

739

957

583

1,497

Latin America and the Caribbean

183

503

428

430

978

Middle East and North Africa

31

1,011

430

611

203

South Asia

4,723

3,828

6,153

4,849

6,092

Total

16,171

19,463a

24,010b

21,932b

30,365b

a.	Figure does not include the commitment of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.
b.	Excludes IFC-MIGA PSW activities.

TABLE 22 IDA DISBURSEMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2016–20 
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

Africa

6,813

6,623

8,206

10,190

13,373

East Asia and Pacific

1,204

1,145

1,252

1,282

1,589

Europe and Central Asia

365

310

298

931

365

Latin America and the Caribbean

303

229

223

340

466

44

391

569

647

151

Middle East and North Africa
South Asia

4,462

3,970

3,835

4,159

5,235

Total

13,191

12,668a

14,383

17,549

21,179b

a.	Figure does not include the disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.
b.	 Excludes IFC-MIGA PSW activities.

92	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

TABLE 23 IDA COMMITMENTS BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2016–20 
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
SECTOR

FY16

FY17a

FY18

FY19

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

1,849

Education

1,431

Energy and Extractives

2,025

1,442

2,796

1,978

1,773

2,836

1,767

4,037

2,814

1,891

4,028

3,468

3,218

443

1,227

546

870

534

1,191

1,246

2,062

1,736

4,295

841

1,541

1,991

1,963

2,712

78

519

419

779

1,202

Public Administration

1,500

1,954

5,013

3,109

4,252

Social Protection

2,475

1,913

2,112

2,163

4,185

Transportation

2,277

3,271

1,455

1,709

2,132

Water, Sanitation, and Waste
 Management

1,271

2,102

2,105

1,572

1,820

16,171

19,463

24,010b

21,932b

30,365b

Financial Sector
Health
Industry, Trade, and Services
Information and Communications
 Technologies

Total

FY20

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector categories have replaced
the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal year data reported here have
been revised to reflect the new categories and therefore may not match figures published in previous annual
reports. Please visit projects.worldbank.org/sector for more information on changes.
a.	Fiscal 2017 IDA sector breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility.
b.	 Excludes IFC-MIGA PSW activities.

TABLE 24 IDA COMMITMENTS BY THEME: FISCAL 2017–20
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME

FY17a

FY19

FY20

Economic Policy

1,791

FY18

468

1,073

1,192

Environment and Natural Resources
 Management

5,766

9,491

9,680

11,141

Finance

1,507

1,642

2,418

2,680

Human Development and Gender

6,471

7,509

7,860

15,974

Private Sector Development

4,837

4,240b

5,145b

7,232b

Public Sector Management

1,936

3,827

2,513

4,158

Social Development and Protection

2,544

2,980

2,722

4,738

Urban and Rural Development

8,352

8,654

7,866

8,899

Note: As of fiscal 2017, new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal
data modernization effort. Because lending commitments for individual operations can be applied to multiple
theme categories, figures organized by theme do not add up to fiscal year commitment totals, and therefore
should not be summed. Past fiscal year theme data have been remapped but not revised according to the new
methodology. As they are no longer directly comparable, historical data are not included here. Please visit
projects.worldbank.org/theme for more information on changes.
a.	Fiscal 2017 IDA theme breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility.
b.	Excludes IFC-MIGA PSW activities.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

93

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

TABLE 25 IDA TOP COUNTRY BORROWERS, FISCAL 2020
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
COUNTRY

COMMITMENTS

COUNTRY

COMMITMENTS

Nigeria

2,576

Tanzania

950

Bangladesh

2,265

Nepal

949

Congo, Democratic Republic of

1,642

Kenya

943

Pakistan

1,471

Somalia

903

Ethiopia

1,046

Myanmar

900

IDA financial resources and financial model
IDA has previously been funded largely by contributions from high- and middleincome partner countries. Additional financing comes from Bank Group transfers
and borrowers’ repayments of earlier IDA credits. As part of the groundbreaking
IDA18 package, which covers fiscal 2018–20, IDA partners agreed to transform IDA’s
financing model, leveraging its strong capital base to pioneer a new model for development finance that combines donor funding with funding raised in the capital markets to support an ambitious policy package with focus on five special themes: jobs
and economic transformation; climate change; gender and development; fragility,
conflict, and violence; and governance and institutions. IDA received its first-ever
public credit rating—triple-A—in 2016. IDA’s financial strength is based on its robust
capital position and shareholder support, as well as on its prudent financial policies
and practices, which help maintain its triple-A credit rating.
For IDA18, development partners agreed to a financing envelope of SDR 53.5 billion (equivalent to $75.0 billion) * to provide credits, grants, and guarantees to IDA’s
client countries. At the outset, $63.5 billion is expected to be used on concessional
terms, $9.0 billion on IBRD terms for the Scale-Up Facility and transitional support,
and $2.5 billion for the PSW. As of June 30, 2020, after the effect of reallocations
agreed with IDA’s development partners during the IDA18 period, including as part of
IDA’s support to clients to respond to COVID-19, $68 billion was committed on concessional terms, $8.4 billion on IBRD terms for the Scale-Up Facility and transitional
support, and $1.4 billion for the PSW. IDA administrative expenses are recovered
primarily through net charges and interest paid by recipient countries.
Supporting IDA18 were SDR 16.1 billion (equivalent to $22.6 billion) in grants
from IDA’s donors, of which SDR 0.9 billion ($1.2 billion) is the grant element from
concessional partner loan contributions. Partners are also providing SDR 3.6 billion
($5.1 billion) in concessional partner loans—SDR 2.7 billion ($3.8 billion) excluding
* The Financing Framework for the IDA18 Replenishment is managed predominantly in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs). U.S. dollar equivalent figures given here are calculated using IDA18 reference
exchange rates.

Equity

Concessional lending and grants

Investments
Borrowings

94	

Non-concessional lending

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

Reflows and operating results

FIGURE 9 IDA BUSINESS MODEL

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

the grant element of the loans—and SDR 2.9 billion ($4.1 billion) in compensation for
debt relief under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). As of June 30, 2020,
50 partners had submitted IDA18 Instruments of Commitment and concessional
loan agreements. Along with compensation for MDRI for the IDA18 period, contributions total SDR 21.7 billion ($30.4 billion).
IDA’s borrowing program enables it to significantly scale up its support toward
achieving the SDGs, while offering investors an efficient way to contribute to global
development. This optimization of its capital enables IDA to mobilize three dollars
in IDA commitment authority for every dollar of development partner contributions
under IDA18. On April 17, 2018, for the first time, IDA issued $1.5 billion of debt in the
international capital markets. This inaugural IDA bond received strong reception in
the market and paved the way for further market borrowing, including an IDA Bills
Program and more benchmark issuances in euro, British pounds, and US dollars.
The program has been successful in raising liquidity in various currencies from a
diverse set of investors across the globe. IDA will continue to seek opportunities to
further diversify its currency composition and develop its capital markets presence.

TABLE 26 IDA KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2016–20
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS, WHICH ARE IN PERCENTAGES
INDICATOR

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

Commitmentsa

16,171

Gross disbursements
Net disbursements

FY20

19,513b

24,010c

21,932c

30,365c

13,191

12,718

14,383

17,549

21,179c

8,806

8,154

9,290

12,221

15,112c

Total assets

167,985

173,357

184,666

188,553

199,472

Net investment portfolio

29,908

29,673

33,735

32,443

35,571

132,825

138,351

145,656

151,921

160,961

2,906

3,660

7,318

10,149

19,653

154,700

158,476

163,945

162,982

168,171

1,453

1,521

1,647

1,702

1,843

990

599

203

258

252

Loans, grants, and guarantees
b

Balance sheet

Net loans outstanding
Borrowing portfolio
Total equity
Income statement
Interest revenue, net of
 borrowing expenses
Transfers from affiliated
 organizations and others
Development grants
Net income/(loss)
Adjusted net income

d

(1,232)

(2,577)

(4,969)

(7,694)

(1,475)

371

(2,296)

(5,231)

(6,650)

(1,114)

423

(158)

(391)

225

724

35.3%

35.8%

Capital adequacy
Deployable strategic capital
 ratio

n.a.

37.2%

37.4%

Note: n.a. = not applicable. For a complete presentation of fiscal year data, see the full financial statements:
www.worldbank.org/financialresults.
a.	Amounts are net of full terminations/cancellations approved in the same fiscal year.
b.	Figures include the commitment and disbursement of $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility.
c.	Commitments and disbursements exclude IFC-MIGA PSW activities.
d.	Effective June 30, 2019, IDA introduced this new income measure to reflect the economic results of its
operations. Prior period numbers have been calculated and presented for comparability.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

95

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

IDA19 replenishment
Every three years, development partners meet to review IDA’s policies, assess its
financial capacity, agree on the amount of financing for the next replenishment
period, and commit to additional contributions of equity that are required to meet
IDA’s objectives and development goals. The replenishment process for IDA19, which
covers fiscal 2021–23, began in November 2018 and was finalized in December 2019.
IDA19 is comprised of an $82 billion envelope to finance projects from July 1,
2020, to June 30, 2023, presenting a 3 percent increase in real terms compared to
IDA18. Of this total, $23.5 billion comes from donor contributions and the remainder
from repayments of outstanding IDA loans, contributions from the Bank, and financing raised from the capital markets. The funding will allow IDA to continue helping
countries deal with the challenges posed by climate change, gender inequality, and
situations of fragility, conflict, and violence, while also reinforcing support for job creation and economic transformation, good governance, and accountable institutions.
IDA19 will also tackle broader development challenges, such as enhancing debt sustainability and transparency, harnessing and adapting to transformative digital technology, promoting inclusion of those living with disabilities, and investing in human
capital. While the COVID-19 pandemic requires innovative responses, particularly
during the IDA19 period, IDA remains committed to countries’ long-term development challenges.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/ida.

Mitigating risks to the institution amid global uncertainties 
The Bank Group’s Chief Risk Officer monitors the global political and economic
influences that could affect the institution’s financial stability. Amid the COVID-19
pandemic, countries have faced disruptions in global trade, supply chains, migration
and remittances, international travel, and tourism. Real GDP in advanced economies is projected to contract by 7 percent this year. Lockdowns and other restrictive
measures have affected both domestic demand and labor supply. As reduced economic activity has weakened revenue, fiscal deficits and public debt ratios have risen
sharply.
Many countries have attempted to support economic activity by helping those
hit hard by the slowdown. A number of emerging markets experienced strong capital
outflows in March and April 2020, which subsequently recovered as central banks
in advanced economies intensified efforts to support liquidity. Though commodity
prices, particularly for oil, fell sharply at the onset of the pandemic, increasing activity in China has contributed to a modest and partial recovery in these prices, particularly for metals. A renewed commitment by OPEC and other producers to reduce oil
production has also led to a partial recovery in oil prices.
The outlook for credit quality remains uncertain and will depend on the extent
and duration of the pandemic. Public debt ratios are likely to remain high in many
countries. Financial sectors could present substantial contingent liabilities for many
governments. The pandemic could also lead to an enduring loss of both human and
physical capital, reducing potential growth rates for the long term.

96	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

COMMITTED TO RESULTS
The World Bank helps to promote sustainable development in partner countries by providing
financing, sharing knowledge, and working with the public and private sectors. Delivering
integrated solutions to help countries address their development challenges requires a
focus on results. In recent years, the Bank has made important contributions across many
areas to support development results achieved by its partner countries.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/results.

1 	 Afghanistan: Between 2003 and

2018, the newborn mortality rate fell
from 53 per 1,000 live births to 23 per
1,000 live births, and the number of
functioning health facilities increased
from about 500 to more than 2,800. 

2 	 Armenia: Since 2013, more than

270,000 people in rural areas have
gained access to all-season roads..

3 	Azerbaijan: Between 2011 and 2018,

irrigation and drainage services
increased from 530,000 hectares to
more than 920,000 hectares.  

4 	 Bangladesh: Between 2013 and

2020, over333,000 people, including
more than 166,500 women, gained
more resilience to tidal flooding and
storm surges through construction of
embankments in low-lying areas.

5 	Benin: Between 2012 and 2020, over

1 million people—of whom about 41
percent were women—benefited
from interventions that improved
agricultural productivity and increased
the volume of exports.

6 	 Brazil: Between 2010 and 2018, nearly

47 million received conditional cash
transfers.

7 	 Burkina Faso: Between 2014 and

2019, over 570,000 more people—of
whom 53 percent were women—were
included in the country’s safety net.
More than 34,000 of them received
adaptive cash transfers following food
security shocks.

8 	 Cambodia: In 2019, about 2.9 million

of the poorest people have benefited
from free access to outpatient health
care and 160,000 from admission to
hospitals every year.

98	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

9 	Djibouti: Between 2014 and 2019,

more than 300,000   people received
quality health care, and over 85
percent of children have been fully
immunized before their first birthday.

10 	 Ecuador: Since 2015, more than

39,000 people in Guayaquil have
been provided with better sanitation
services.

11 	 Egypt: Between 2014 and 2019, more

than 300,000 jobs were created, and
nearly 175,000 entrepreneurs—of
whom 42 percent were women—were
able to start their businesses.

12 	 Haiti: Between 2011 and 2018, 57

schools were built in remote areas, and
nearly 460,000 children participated
in health and nutrition programs at
schools.

13 	 Honduras: Between 2013 and

2018, over 30,000 people in nine
communities benefited from lower
crime rates, safer schools, and greater
access to justice services, as part
of efforts to reduce violence in their
communities.

14 	India: Between 2007 and 2019, more

than 10,000 circuit kilometers of
transmission lines were installed,
helping connect India’s southern
region with the country’s electricity
grid and enabling cross-border
electricity transmission between India,
Nepal, and Bangladesh.

15 	Jordan: Since 2016, more than 2

million Jordanians and nearly 250,000
Syrian refugees—at least 45 percent of
whom were women—have benefited
from municipal services, including
better waste collection, road networks,
and street lighting.

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

Countries with active
IBRD or IDA operations
No active IBRD or IDA project,
ineligible, or no data

Russian Federation

21

Note: Data represents the IBRD/IDA active portfolio as of June 30, 2020.

Russian Fed.

Poland Belarus
Kazakhstan

Ukraine
Moldova
Romania
Bulgaria

3

2

Morocco

Tunisia

Lebanon

15

12
Cabo
Verde

Belize
Guatemala Honduras
El Salvador Nicaragua

Senegal
The Gambia
Guinea-Bissau
Guinea
Sierra Leone
Liberia

Guyana
Colombia

Mali

Niger

Burkina
Faso
Côte
d’Ivoire

Ghana
Togo
Benin
Equatorial Guinea
São Tomé and Príncipe

Ecuador

10
Peru

Brazil

19

6

Nepal
India

Bangladesh
Myanmar Lao
P.D.R.
Thailand Vietnam

14

9

Rep. of
Yemen

Chad

Bhutan

4

30

Djibouti
Nigeria

5

Central
Cameroon African Rep.

Ethiopia

South
Sudan

22

25

Angola

29

Philippines

Palau
Nauru

Seychelles
Indonesia

Comoros

23

Timor-Leste

Argentina

St. Kitts
and Nevis

Samoa

South
Africa

Eswatini

21

Poland

Lesotho

Croatia
Bosnia and
Herzegovina
Grenada

Serbia
Kosovo

Montenegro
Albania

North
Macedonia

16 	Morocco: Between 2010 and 2020, more

than 9,000 farmers in areas facing acute
water scarcity benefited from better
irrigation services across more than
24,000 hectares.

17 	 Nepal: Between 2016 and 2019, around

670,000 people—of whom 30 percent
were women—opened bank accounts.

18 	Pakistan: Between 2015 and 2020, about

7 million people became better protected
against flood risks as a result of new
protective infrastructure and stronger
disaster risk management institutions and
practices.

19 	 Peru: Between 2011 and 2017, about

143,000 people gained new electricity
connections, which include nearly 12,000
solar power systems for households in
remote areas.

20 	Philippines: Since 2014, more than

27,000 community projects have benefited
over 5 million households across roughly
19,300 villages.

21 	 Poland: Between 2007 and 2020, more

than 2.5 million people gained better
protection against flooding as a result
of new flood embankments, canals, and
bridges, as well as the construction of the
Racibórz Dolny dry reservoir—the largest
water investment in Poland.

22 	 Rwanda: Between 2008 and 2019,

about 2,200 public works projects were
implemented, employing more than
800,000 households and generating more
than 40 million paid working days.

23 	 Seychelles: Between 2013 and 2019,

the government reformed its budgeting
process across all ministries, departments,
and agencies, allowing them to better
allocate funding to priority areas, monitor
performance, and focus on results.

Fiji
Tonga

Mozambique

Dominica
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and
the Grenadines

Kiribati
Tuvalu

Ukraine

Uruguay

Chile

Antigua
and
Barbuda

24
Vanuatu

Madagascar
Botswana
Dominican
Republic

Papua
New
Guinea

Kiribati

Solomon
Islands

Zambia Malawi

Bolivia
Paraguay

Marshall Islands

Federated States
of Micronesia

20

Maldives

Uganda
Kenya

Gabon Rep. of
Rwanda
Congo Dem. Rep.
Burundi
of Congo
Tanzania

Cambodia

8

Sri
Lanka

Somalia

27

Romania

Costa Rica
Panama

7

Mauritania

China

17

Pakistan

18

11

Haiti
Jamaica

26

Bulgaria

13

1

Jordan Iraq
Arab Rep. of
Egypt

16
Mexico

Kyrgyz
Uzbekistan Rep.
Tajikistan
Afghanistan

Georgia
Armenia Azerbaijan

Turkey

Mongolia

28

24 	 Solomon Islands: Since 2010, over

882,000 days of work have been
generated for urban youth and women,
who earned more than $4 million in
wages.

25 	 Somalia: Between 2017 and 2018,

767,000 Somalis, of whom 42 percent
were women, gained better access to
food, and 777,000 Somalis gained better
access to water.

26 	Tajikistan: Between 2012 and 2020,

1.4 million people benefited from
better irrigation services and water
management.

27 	Thailand: Between 1994 and 2014,

changes in production technology
for small and medium enterprises
helped reduce carbon emissions by the
equivalent of 870,000 tons annually.

IBRD 43838 | OCTOBER 2020

28 	 Uzbekistan: Between 2012 and 2018,

over 30 large industrial enterprises
improved their energy efficiency,
resulting in savings of 360 million
kilowatt hours—enough to satisfy
the electricity needs of over 176,000
households annually.

29 	 Vietnam: Between 2010 and 2018, more

than 11,000 common interest groups
for small businesses were established,
helping them increase their share in
value chains and sell more than $24
million worth of products.

30 	 Yemen: Since 2017, more than 2 million

people have gained restored access to
critical urban services, including water
and sanitation, transport, energy, and
waste management.

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

World Bank Annual Report 2020
Financial Statements incorporated by reference. The Management’s Discussion
and Analysis and Audited Financial Statements of IBRD and IDA (“Financial Statements”) shall be deemed to be incorporated in and to form part of this Annual
Report. The Financial Statements may be accessed at http://www.worldbank.org/
financialresults.
Additional IBRD and IDA financial, lending, and organizational information is
available on the World Bank Annual Report 2020 website: http://www.worldbank.
org/annualreport.
For more information on the World Bank or its publicly-available data and knowledge resources, visit online:
• Finances One: https://financesapp.worldbank.org
• Corporate Scorecard: http://scorecard.worldbank.org
• World Bank Open Data: http://data.worldbank.org
• Open Knowledge Repository: http://openknowledge.worldbank.org
• World Bank Corporate Responsibility: http://www.worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility
• World Bank Access to Information: http://www.worldbank.org/en/access-to-information
Production credits. The World Bank Annual Report 2020 was produced by the World Bank Group’s External and
Corporate Relations unit, under the direction of Jeremy Hillman in the Corporate Communications department,
with editorial coordination by Leslie Yun, Paul McClure, Nadia Kanji, and Nicole Frost. Design by Naylor Design, Inc.
Typesetting by BMWW. Translation by the World Bank’s Translation and Interpretation Services.
Photography credits. Cover spread: Henitsoa Rafalia/World Bank; Page 2: Vincent Tremeau/World Bank;
Page 5: Simone D. McCourtie/World Bank; Pages 6 and 7: Grant Ellis/World Bank; Page 8: Maldives National
Defence Force; Page 11 (from top to bottom): Arne Hoel/World Bank, Sh. Khash-Erdene/World Bank, Pavel
Kondrashin/World Bank, Dominic Chavez/World Bank, Hanan Ishaq/WHO, John Isaac/World Bank; Page 16 (from
top to bottom): Sh. Khash-Erdene/World Bank, Mihaaru; Page 21: Government of Uganda; Page 25: Tom Perry;
Page 29: Taguhi Minasyan/World Bank; Page 33: Greta Granados/World Bank; Page 37: Dominic Chavez/World
Bank; Page 41: Rumi Consultancy/World Bank; Page 42: John Lyimo/World Bank; Page 46: Graham Crouch/World
Bank; Page 53: Henitsoa Rafalia/World Bank; Page 64: Tom Perry; Page 66: Henitsoa Rafalia/World Bank; Page 70:
Brandon Payne/World Bank; Page 72: Pavel Kondrashin/World Bank; Page 74: Henitsoa Rafalia/World Bank;
Page 80: Paul Salazar/World Bank; Page 83: Gerhard Jörén/World Bank; Page 84: John Lyimo/World Bank;
Page 97: Paul Salazar/World Bank.
This publication follows recommended standards for paper use set by the Green Press Initiative. The paper
contains postconsumer fiber, is certified FSC® and EcoLogo, and is manufactured using renewable biogas energy
and elemental chlorine-free processing.
2020 International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development / The World Bank
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1000;
Internet: www.worldbank.org
Some rights reserved
1 2 3 4 23 22 21 20
This work is a product of the staff of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations, and other
information shown on any map in this work do not
imply any judgment on the part of The World Bank
concerning the legal status of any territory or the
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
Nothing herein shall constitute or be considered
to be a limitation upon or waiver of the privileges
and immunities of The World Bank, all of which are
specifically reserved.
Rights and Permissions
This work is available under the
Creative Commons Attribution–
NonCommercial–NoDerivatives
3.0 IGO license (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO) http://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/igo.
Under the Creative Commons–NonCommercial–
NoDerivatives license, you are free to copy, distribute,
and transmit this work, for noncommercial purposes
only, under the following conditions:

Attribution—Please cite the work as follows:
World Bank. 2020. World Bank Annual Report 2020.
Washington, DC: World Bank. doi: 10.1596/9781-4648-1619-2 . License: Creative Commons
Attribution–NonCommercial–NoDerivatives 3.0
IGO (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO).
Noncommercial—You may not use this work for
commercial purposes.
No Derivative Works—You may not alter, transform, or
build upon this work.
Third-party content—The World Bank does not
necessarily own each component of the content
contained within the work. The World Bank therefore
does not warrant that the use of any third-partyowned individual component or part contained
in the work will not infringe on the rights of those
third parties. The risk of claims resulting from such
infringement rests solely with you. If you wish to re-use
a component of the work, it is your responsibility to
determine whether permission is needed for that
re-use and to obtain permission from the copyright
owner. Examples of components can include, but are
not limited to, tables, figures, or images.
All queries on rights and licenses should be
addressed to World Bank Publications, The World
Bank Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail: pubrights@
worldbank.org.
ISBN: 978-1-4648-1619-2
eISBN: 978-1-4648-1620-8
doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-1619-2

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

AFGHANISTAN ALBANIA ANGOLA ARGENTINA ARMENIA AZERBAIJAN
BANGLADESH BELARUS BELIZE BENIN BHUTAN BOLIVIA BOSNIA AND
HERZEGOVINA BOTSWANA BRAZIL BULGARIA BURKINA FASO BURUNDI CABO
VERDE CAMBODIA CAMEROON CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC CHAD CHILE
CHINA COLOMBIA COMOROS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO REPUBLIC OF
CONGO COSTA RICA CÔTE D’IVOIRE CROATIA DJIBOUTI DOMINICA DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC ECUADOR ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT EL SALVADOR ESWATINI
ETHIOPIA FIJI GABON THE GAMBIA GEORGIA GHANA GRENADA GUATEMALA
GUINEA GUINEA-BISSAU GUYANA HAITI HONDURAS INDIA INDONESIA IRAQ
JAMAICA JORDAN KAZAKHSTAN KENYA KIRIBATI KOSOVO KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC LEBANON LESOTHO LIBERIA
MADAGASCAR MALAWI MALDIVES MALI MARSHALL ISLANDS MAURITANIA
MEXICO FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA MOLDOVA MONGOLIA
MONTENEGRO MOROCCO MOZAMBIQUE MYANMAR NEPAL NICARAGUA
NIGER NIGERIA NORTH MACEDONIA PAKISTAN PANAMA PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY PERU PHILIPPINES POLAND ROMANIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RWANDA SAMOA SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE SENEGAL SERBIA SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE SOLOMON ISLANDS SOMALIA SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH SUDAN SRI
LANKA ST. LUCIA ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES SURINAME TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA TIMOR-LESTE TOGO TONGA TUNISIA TURKEY TUVALU UGANDA
UKRAINE URUGUAY UZBEKISTAN VANUATU VIETNAM REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ZAMBIA ZIMBABWE AFGHANISTAN ALBANIA ANGOLA ARGENTINA ARMENIA
AZERBAIJAN BANGLADESH BELARUS BELIZE BENIN BHUTAN BOLIVIA BOSNIA
AND HERZEGOVINA BOTSWANA BRAZIL BULGARIA BURKINA FASO BURUNDI
CABO VERDE CAMBODIA CAMEROON CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC CHAD
CHILE CHINA COLOMBIA COMOROS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
REPUBLIC OF CONGO COSTA RICA CÔTE D’IVOIRE CROATIA DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA DOMINICAN REPUBLIC ECUADOR ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT EL
SALVADOR ESWATINI ETHIOPIA FIJI GABON THE GAMBIA GEORGIA GHANA
GRENADA GUATEMALA GUINEA GUINEA-BISSAU GUYANA HAITI HONDURAS
INDIA INDONESIA IRAQ JAMAICA JORDAN KAZAKHSTAN KENYA KIRIBATI
KOSOVO KYRGYZ REPUBLIC LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC LEBANON
LESOTHO LIBERIA MADAGASCAR MALAWI MALDIVES MALI MARSHALL
The World Bank comprises the International Bank for Reconstruction
ISLANDS
MAURITANIA MEXICO FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA MOLDOVA
and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association
MONGOLIA
MONTENEGRO MOROCCO MOZAMBIQUE MYANMAR NEPAL
(IDA). The organization’s mission is to end extreme poverty and promote
NICARAGUA
NIGER
MACEDONIA PAKISTAN PANAMA PAPUA
shared prosperity
in aNIGERIA
sustainableNORTH
way.
NEW GUINEA PARAGUAY PERU PHILIPPINES POLAND ROMANIA RUSSIAN
www.worldbank.org/annualreport
FEDERATION RWANDA SAMOA SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE SENEGAL SERBIA
SEYCHELLES SIERRA LEONE SOLOMON ISLANDS SOMALIA SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH SUDAN SRI LANKA ST. LUCIA ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
SURINAME TAJIKISTAN TANZANIA TIMOR-LESTE TOGO TONGA
TUNISIA TURKEY
SKU: 211620
TUVALU UGANDA UKRAINE URUGUAY UZBEKISTAN VANUATU VIETNAM
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN ZAMBIA ZIMBABWE

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

