ANNUAL REPORT 2021

FROM Crisis TO

Green, Resilient, AND
Inclusive Recovery

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Contents
	 3	Introduction
	

5	 Message from the President

	

8	 Message from the Executive Directors

	 10	The World Bank Group’s Support for Countries During the COVID-19
Crisis

	 19	 Regional Engagements
	 55	 Supporting Countries’ Crisis Response and Recovery
	 81	 Strengthening Capital Markets and Promoting Sustainable Finance
	 83	 Partnering on the Path to Recovery
	 87	 Improving Operations for Greater Impact
	 91	 Our Values, People, and Places
	97	 Guiding the Institution
	 99	 Providing Oversight and Accountability
	 102	 Deploying Resources Strategically
	114	 Committed to Results
KEY TABLES

	108	 IBRD Key Financial Indicators, Fiscal 2017–21
	112	 IDA Key Financial Indicators, Fiscal 2017–21
This annual report, which covers the period from July 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021,
has been prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development
Association (IDA)—collectively known as the World Bank—in accordance with the
respective bylaws of the two institutions. David Malpass, President of the World
Bank Group and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors, has submitted
this report, together with the accompanying administrative budgets and audited
financial statements, to the Board of Governors.
Annual reports for the other World Bank Group (WBG) institutions—the
International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral Investment Guarantee
Agency (MIGA), and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes (ICSID)—are published separately.
Throughout the report, the term World Bank and the abbreviated Bank refer only
to IBRD and IDA; the term World Bank Group and the abbreviated Bank Group
refer to the five institutions. All dollar amounts used in this report are current U.S.
dollars unless otherwise specified. Funds allocated to multiregional projects are
accounted for by recipient country in tables and text when referring to regional
breakdowns. For sector and theme breakdowns, funds are accounted for by
operation. Fiscal year commitments and disbursements data are in accordance
with the audited figures reported in the IBRD and IDA Financial Statements and
Management’s Discussion and Analysis documents for fiscal 2021. As a result of
rounding, numbers in tables may not add to totals, and percentages in figures may
not add to 100.

 

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

LBANIA ANGOLA ARGENTINA ARMENIA AZERBAIJAN BANGLADESH
E BENIN BHUTAN BOLIVIA BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA BOTSWANA
A BURKINA FASO BURUNDI CABO VERDE CAMBODIA CAMEROON
AN REPUBLIC CHAD CHILE
CHINA COLOMBIA COMOROS
SINCE APRIL 2020, we have mounted a rapid and comprehensive response to help countries address
PUBLIC
OF CONGO
CONGO
COSTA
RICA
CÔTE
the wide-rangingOF
impacts
of the COVID-19
crisis. This includes,
between
April 2020 and June 2021:
FROM
CRISIS . . .REPUBLIC
A DJIBOUTI DOMINICA DOMINICAN REPUBLIC ECUADOR ARAB
YPT EL SALVADOR ESWATINI ETHIOPIA FIJI GABON THE GAMBIA
A GRENADA GUATEMALA GUINEA$157
GUINEA-BISSAU
GUYANA HAITI
billion
A INDONESIA IRAQ JAMAICA JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN KENYA
in Bank Group financing
$4.4
billion
to support
countries’
O KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
LAO
DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
Emergency
healthPEOPLE'S
to help more than
responses to the
operations in over
THO LIBERIA MADAGASCAR
MALAWI
MALDIVES
MALI
50 countries MARSHALL
purchase
pandemic
100
countries
TANIA MEXICO FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA
and deployMOLDOVA
safe and
effective vaccines
TENEGRO MOROCCO MOZAMBIQUE MYANMAR NEPAL
NICARAGUA
AFGHANISTAN
ANGOLA
ARGENTINA ARMENIA AZE
NORTH MACEDONIA PAKISTAN
PANAMAALBANIA
PAPUA NEW
GUINEA
BENIN
BHUTAN RWANDA
BOLIVIA BOSNIA AND HER
U PHILIPPINES POLAND BELARUS
ROMANIA BELIZE
RUSSIAN
FEDERATION
BRAZIL
BULGARIA
BURKINA
FASO LEONE
BURUNDI CABO VERDE C
MÉ AND PRÍNCIPE SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA
CENTRAL
REPUBLIC
CHAD
CHILE CHINA COLOMB
NDS SOMALIA
AFRICA
SOUTH
SUDAN
SRI LANKA
ST. LUCIA
. . . TO SOUTH
GREEN, RESILIENT,
ANDAFRICAN
INCLUSIVE
RECOVERY
DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
OF CONGO REPUBLIC OF CONGO C
D THE GRENADINES SURINAME
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
D'IVOIRE
CROATIA
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REPUB
GO TONGA TUNISIA TURKEY
TUVALU
UGANDA
UKRAINE
URUGUAY
REPUBLIC
OFRESILIENT
EGYPT
EL ZIMBABWE
SALVADOR ESWATINI ETHIOPIA FIJI
NUATU VIETNAM REPUBLIC
OF YEMEN
ZAMBIA
INCLUSIVE
GEORGIA
GHANAAZERBAIJAN
GRENADA GUATEMALA
GUINEA
GUINEA-B
LBANIA ANGOLA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
BANGLADESH
GREEN
Identifying, reducing, and managing
Investing
in
human
capital
Investing inBOLIVIA
climate-smart
HONDURAS
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAQ
JAMAICA JORDAN KAZA
to
prevent
and
prepare
E BENIN BHUTAN
BOSNIArisksAND
HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
and fostering policies for
solutions that sustain
for climate change, pandemics,
inclusive growth
to create
jobs
KOSOVO
KYRGYZ
REPUBLIC
LAO
PEOPLE'S
DEMOC
A BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CABO
VERDE
CAMBODIA
CAMEROON
natural capital
and KIRIBATI
natural hazards, and
and
tackle
exclusion
resilience
LEBANON
LIBERIA
MADAGASCAR
MALAWI MALDI
AN REPUBLIC promote
CHAD
CHILE
CHINALESOTHO
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
other
shocks, including
and inequality
and growth
for vulnerable groups
ISLANDS
MEXICO
STATES OF MICR
PUBLIC OF CONGO REPUBLIC
OFMAURITANIA
CONGO
COSTA
RICAFEDERATED
CÔTE
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE MYANM
A DJIBOUTI DOMINICA MONGOLIA
DOMINICANMONTENEGRO
REPUBLIC ECUADOR
ARAB
NIGERETHIOPIA
NIGERIA NORTH
MACEDONIA
PAKISTAN PANAMA PAP
YPT EL SALVADOR ESWATINI
FIJI GABON
THE GAMBIA
PERU PHILIPPINES
POLAND
ROMANIA RUSSIAN
A GRENADA GUATEMALAPARAGUAY
GUINEA GUINEA-BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
100%
SAMOA
SÃO TOMÉ
AND PRÍNCIPE
SENEGAL SERBIA SEYCHE
A INDONESIA IRAQ JAMAICA
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
Support
for
WORLD BANK GROUP
35%
SOLOMON
ISLANDS
SOMALIA
SOUTH
AFRICA SOUTH SUDA
O KYRGYZ
REPUBLIC
LAO
PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
CLIMATE CHANGE
ST. VINCENT
THE GRENADINES
SURINAME TAJIKISTAN
ACTION PLAN
THO LIBERIA
MADAGASCAR
MALAWI AND
MALDIVES
MALI MARSHALL
50%
TIMOR-LESTE
TONGA TUNISIA
TURKEY TUVALU UGAN
TANIA MEXICO FEDERATED
STATES OFTOGO
MICRONESIA
MOLDOVA
UZBEKISTANMYANMAR
VANUATU
VIETNAM
REPUBLIC
OF YEMEN ZAM
results and
TENEGRO MOROCCO MOZAMBIQUE
NEPAL NICARAGUA
just transition
impact
AFGHANISTAN
ANGOLA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA AZE
NORTH MACEDONIA PAKISTAN
PANAMAALBANIA
PAPUA NEW
GUINEA
BENIN
BHUTAN RWANDA
BOLIVIA BOSNIA AND HER
U PHILIPPINES POLAND BELARUS
ROMANIA BELIZE
RUSSIAN
FEDERATION
BRAZIL
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
MÉ AND PRÍNCIPE SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA
LEONE CABO VERDE C
CENTRAL
AFRICAN
REPUBLIC
CHAD
CHILE CHINA COLOMB
NDS SOMALIA SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH
SUDAN
SRI LANKA
ST. LUCIA
The Bank Group’s 2021–25
Climate Change Action plan will
boost efforts to help countries fully
integrate climate and development,
maximize the impact of climate
finance, and promote climate
adaptation and mitigation.

of WBG
financing will
have climate
co-benefits

of World Bank financing
aligned with Paris
Agreement by
July 1, 2023

of WBG climate
finance devoted
to adaptation

Helping
countries
through a

away from
coal

countries’ Nationally
Determined
Contributions &
long-term
strategies

New metrics
to better
measure

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

The mission of the
World Bank Group centers on
two overarching goals:

End extreme poverty . . .
. . . by reducing the share of the global population
living on less than $1.90 a day.

Promote shared prosperity . . .
. . . by increasing the incomes of the
poorest 40 percent of people.

RESPECT
I M PAC T
INTEGRITY
TEAMWORK
I N N O VAT I O N

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

2	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Introduction
Over the past year, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to
affect countries around the world. It has caused a global health and economic
crisis unprecedented in scale and impact, with overstretched health systems,
widespread lockdowns, school closures, disruptions to food supply, and income
losses that are disproportionately affecting the poor, women, the elderly, informal workers, and other vulnerable groups. The pandemic reversed decades of
progress in reducing poverty, with about 100 million more people pushed into
extreme poverty in 2020. Many countries are also at risk of debt distress as
they struggle to respond to the crisis.
As countries continue to grapple with the health, economic, and social
impacts of the pandemic, the World Bank Group’s comprehensive response to
COVID-19—the fastest and largest crisis response in our history—seeks to save
lives, protect the poor and vulnerable, achieve sustainable growth, and rebuild
economies in better ways. Our commitments reached record levels in fiscal
2021, providing $157 billion through rapid and flexible financing mechanisms
to help countries tackle the COVID-19 crisis and address their most pressing
development needs. This includes support for countries affected by fragility,
conflict, and violence, where millions of people face extreme poverty, food insecurity, and unprecedented levels of forced displacement.
We are also linking short- and long-term solutions to work toward recovery.
We are helping countries integrate climate and development, invest in resilient
infrastructure, boost human capital, mitigate the risk of disasters, and enhance
social protection, so that they can look beyond the pandemic to achieve lasting
growth without degrading the environment or aggravating inequality.
With poverty, climate change, and inequality emerging as the defining issues
of our era, we are continuing to take broad, fast action with renewed resolve.
In partnership with governments, the private sector, civil society, and other
multilateral institutions—and backed by our unique combination of financing,
knowledge activities, and experience—we are committed to helping countries
overcome the COVID-19 crisis and look ahead to a green, resilient, and inclusive recovery.

	

FROM CRISIS TO GREEN, RESILIENT, AND INCLUSIVE RECOVERY 	

3

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

4	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Message from the President
Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the World Bank Group
has worked hard to help countries fight the pandemic’s health, economic, and
social impacts. From April 2020 through the end of fiscal 2021, the Bank Group
committed over $157 billion—the largest crisis response in any such period of our
history. We have helped countries address the health emergency, procure billions
of dollars of medical supplies, deploy COVID-19 vaccines, strengthen health systems and pandemic preparedness, protect the poor and vulnerable, support businesses, create jobs, promote growth, and expand social protection.
Despite this unprecedented global effort, the pandemic has reversed gains in
global poverty reduction for the first time in a generation, pushing nearly 100 million people into extreme poverty in 2020. I remain deeply concerned about fragile states, which have been particularly hard-hit by unsustainable debt burdens,
climate change, conflict, and weak governance. And though I am hopeful for the
global economy to rebound, many of the world’s poorest countries are being left
behind, with inequality widening both within and between countries. We are committed to working with our partners to find solutions to these urgent challenges—
including by promoting transparency, human rights, and a rule of law that extends
accountability to all institutions. We are working to save lives, protect the poor and
vulnerable, support business growth and job creation, and rebuild in better ways
toward a green, resilient, and inclusive recovery.
Ensuring safe, fair, and widespread immunization will be key to curb the pandemic and advance recovery: we are supporting countries’ access to COVID-19
vaccines, including through COVAX and directly from manufacturers. The World
Bank has expanded its financing available for COVID-19 vaccines to $20 billion
over two years—in fiscal 2021 alone, we committed $4.4 billion for 53 countries.
Working with WHO, Gavi, and UNICEF, we developed mechanisms for safe distribution in 140 low- and middle-income countries. We are partnering with the African Union and the Africa Centers for Disease Control to support the Africa Vaccine
Acquisition Trust (AVAT) in order to help countries purchase and deploy COVID-19
vaccines for up to 400 million people across Africa. And we are working with the
IMF, WHO, WTO, and other partners to track, coordinate, and advance delivery of
vaccines to developing countries.
IFC is doing vital work to build resilient health systems and expand the manufacturing and supply chains for COVID-19 vaccines. Through its Global Health
Platform, IFC committed $1.2 billion to support vaccine manufacturing capacity,
including in Africa, and the production of essential services and medical equipment, including test kits and personal protective equipment. IFC-led investments
include the mobilization of a €600 million financing package to boost COVID-19
vaccine production in South Africa, support to vaccine manufacturers in Asia, and
investments in medical equipment manufacturers and suppliers.

	

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 	

5

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

To address many countries’ risk of debt distress, we’ve played a key role in the
G20’s Debt Service Suspension Initiative, alongside the IMF. The effort has helped
more than 40 countries to suspend debt service payments in excess of $5 billion,
freeing up fiscal space as countries combat the crisis. While I am pleased the initiative has been extended to the end of 2021, more needs to be done, particularly
to reduce the stock of debt in the poorest countries. With the IMF, we are helping implement the G20 Common Framework for Debt Treatments, which aims to
reduce countries’ debt burdens for the long term.
As the world emerges from the pandemic, climate change will remain a central challenge. The World Bank Group is the largest multilateral provider of climate
finance for developing countries. Over the past five years, we have delivered over
$83 billion–in fiscal 2021 alone, our climate finance totaled over $26 billion. Our
new Climate Change Action Plan, launched in June, seeks to integrate climate
throughout development efforts, with a focus on greenhouse gas reduction and
successful adaptation. The plan commits us to 35 percent of Bank Group financing
having climate co-benefits over the next five years; 50 percent of IBRD and IDA
climate financing will support adaptation and resilience. We will align all World Bank
financing with the goals of the Paris Agreement starting on July 1, 2023. For IFC and
MIGA, 85 percent of Board-approved real sector operations will be aligned starting July 1, 2023, and 100 percent starting July 1, 2025. We will support countries’
preparation and implementation of Nationally Determined Contributions and longterm strategies; these, in turn, will inform our Country Partnership Frameworks.
And we will support countries’ transition away from coal to affordable, reliable, and
cleaner alternatives for electricity. Our efforts will help countries grow their economies while reducing emissions, adapting to climate change, building resilience, and
protecting natural resources, including biodiversity.
In fiscal 2021, IBRD committed $30.5 billion to client countries, and IDA
committed $36.0 billion on grant and highly concessional terms to the poorest
countries. I welcomed the G20’s endorsement of advancing IDA’s 20th replenishment cycle to 2021, which will provide the poorest countries with more resources to overcome the crisis and
work toward recovery. I am also pleased that, after
nearly three decades, Sudan cleared its arrears
to IDA in March, enabling full reengagement
with the Bank Group and paving the way
for the country to access nearly $2 billion
in IDA financing.
IFC delivered a strong fiscal performance, reaching a record high
of $31.5 billion in financing, including $23.3 billion in long-term finance
and $8.2 billion in short-term finance.
IFC also scaled up its short-term financing offerings and kept trade flowing. With
COVID-19 severely impacting private enterprises across emerging markets, IFC provided
critical support through liquidity and trade financing,

6	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

allowing companies to remain in operation, preserving jobs, and enabling long-term
private sector intervention once pandemic impacts subside. We are accelerating
the execution of the IFC 3.0 strategy to create more investible projects in places
where they are needed most, particularly in IDA and FCS markets, and build a pipeline of investments in a post-pandemic world.
In February, I was pleased to announce the appointment of Makhtar Diop as
IFC’s Managing Director and Executive Vice President. His leadership and experience will enable the World Bank Group to build on the unprecedented speed and
scale of our response to the global crisis and support vital recovery efforts through
the private sector.
MIGA issued $5.2 billion in guarantees to help countries achieve their development goals. These efforts are expected to provide 784,000 people with new or
better electricity service, support about 14,600 jobs, generate over $362 million in
taxes for countries, and enable about $1.3 billion in loans, including to local businesses. MIGA continued to make progress across its strategic priority areas, with
85 percent of its projects in fiscal 2021 dedicated to climate mitigation and adaptation, projects in fragile and conflict-affected settings, and IDA countries.
As part of our ongoing commitment to fight racism and racial discrimination in
our workplaces and our work, our senior management and I welcomed 80 recommendations submitted in fiscal 2021 by the Bank Group’s Task Force on Racism.
The first set of 10 foundational recommendations are already being implemented,
and more are under review. I am grateful to all those who have come forward to
engage on this important topic as we continue to work for tangible, meaningful,
and long-lasting change.
Over the past year, our staff have gone above and beyond to support our clients, even as we transitioned to home-based work and coped with the pandemic’s
impact on our own lives, families, and communities. They have ensured the highest
quality standards even as we stepped up our support to clients. I am grateful for
this commitment to our mission, and I look forward to welcoming staff back to our
offices as circumstances permit.
There is no path to sustainable, long-term growth without continuous progress in reducing poverty and inequality. With the dedication of our staff, the support of our partners, and our relationships with countries, I am confident that
we will help countries overcome this crisis and return to the path of inclusive,
sustainable growth.

DAVID MALPASS
President of the World Bank Group
and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors

	

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 	

7

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Message from the Executive Directors
The past year has been immensely challenging around the
world—especially for developing countries—as the COVID-19 pandemic reversed
decades of progress in ending extreme poverty, achieving shared prosperity, and reducing inequality. The World Bank Group responded swiftly and extensively to the health,
economic, and social impacts of the crisis to help spur recovery. But more needs to
be done to address the needs of the marginalized and those who live in the poorest
areas. The Board discussed and approved several important initiatives and programs
in support of both countries’ immediate needs and their long-term development goals.
Vaccines. We have made key and timely decisions on proposals by Bank Group
management to respond to the pandemic and finance vaccination efforts, including
mechanisms for prompt delivery. The Bank Group is partnering with WHO, COVAX,
UNICEF, and others, including private manufacturers, to help facilitate transparent, affordable, and fair access to vaccines for developing countries and to continue
strengthening global preparedness for future pandemics.
Assisting the poor. To help start the process of recovery, the Bank Group registered a historic increase in the delivery of lending for projects and initiatives to assist
low- and middle-income countries, including small states, in tackling multifaceted
challenges, safeguarding human capital, and providing social safety nets to target their
most vulnerable people.
Given the immense financing needs, we agreed to bring forward the IDA20 replenishment process, which we expect will be completed by December 2021. In addition,
we approved an update to the World Bank’s Operational Policy 2.30 (Development
Cooperation and Fragility, Conflict, and Violence) to help implement the Bank Group’s
Strategy for Fragility, Conflict, and Violence. At the 2021 Spring Meetings, the Development Committee also asked the Bank to scale up its work to address rising levels of
food insecurity and to support countries in achieving Sustainable Development Goal
(SDG) 2, and nutrition for all, along with other partners.
Green, resilient, and inclusive development. The Bank Group continues to support countries in achieving the twin goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting
shared prosperity. In responding to the COVID-19 crisis, the Bank Group has an opportunity to help low- and middle-income countries build the foundations for a strong and
durable recovery based on a framework that we discussed, which supports green,
resilient, and inclusive development. We believe that this, in turn, can help address the
longer-term challenge of climate change.
Climate. We hope that the ambitious new targets for climate financing outlined
in the Climate Change Action Plan 2021–25 and the alignment of the Bank Group’s
financing with the Paris agreement—complemented by the approach to green, resilient, and inclusive development and efforts to build long-term resilience for food
­security—will help deliver on the twin goals and the SDGs.
Knowledge framework. We welcomed the discussion of the new Strategic Framework for Knowledge, which strives to better integrate knowledge into solutions for
8	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

(From left to right, top row) Evangelia Bouzis, United States; Takashi Miyahara, Japan; Richard
Hugh Montgomery, United Kingdom; Arnaud Buissé, France; Gunther Beger, Germany; Abdelhak
Bedjaoui, Algeria; Louise Levonian, Canada; Monica E. Medina, Peru; Nigel Ray, Australia; Hayrettin
Demircan, Turkey; Merza Hussain Hasan, Kuwait (Dean); Rajesh Khullar, India; Alphonse Ibi
Kouagou, Benin; (from left to right, bottom row) Taufila Nyamadzabo, Botswana; Abraham
Weintraub, Brazil; Mohd Hassan Ahmad, Malaysia; Junhong Chang, China; Eva Valle Maestro,
Spain; Koen Davidse, The Netherlands (Co-Dean); Geir H. Haarde, Iceland; Matteo Bugamelli, Italy;
Abdulmuhsen Saad Alkhalaf, Saudi Arabia; Roman Marshavin, Russian Federation; Katarzyna
Zajdel-Kurowska, Poland; Armando Manuel, Angola.

clients and the global community. We look forward to implementation of this framework, which will strengthen the Bank Group’s role as a source of solutions.
Debt. As countries face increasing debt burdens, our Governors, together with the
IMF, have given the Bank Group a mandate to address fiscal and debt distress in IDA
countries in a way that supports green, resilient, and inclusive development and poverty reduction. We are hopeful that the G20 Common Framework, along with extension of the Debt Service Suspension Initiative to the end of 2021, will allow beneficiary
countries to dedicate more resources to tackling the crisis, investing in health care
and education, promoting growth, and improving their long-term approaches on debt.
Private sector. Recognizing growing credit constraints, the private sector is a critical player in helping client countries attain their development goals, create and develop
markets, mobilize resources, and respond to COVID-19, including through IFC’s Global
Health Platform and MIGA’s response programs. We expect the Bank Group to keep
building partnerships across a common strategic framework to help generate private
sector solutions that address development challenges.
Racial justice. There were important efforts this year to address racial injustice
within the Bank Group and with our clients, including a set of recommendations put
forth by the End Racism Task Force to fight racism and racial discrimination. We look
forward to implementation of these recommendations through an action plan that will
reaffirm this institutional value, which is embedded in the Bank Group’s Code of Ethics.
Accountability mechanisms. We also reaffirmed the importance of accountability
mechanisms for people and communities who believe that they have been, or are likely
to be, adversely affected by Bank Group projects and investments. We have approved
enhancements to the Bank Group’s social and environmental accountability framework, including changes to the World Bank Inspection Panel’s toolkit and to the reporting line of the Compliance Advisor Ombudsman for IFC and MIGA.
Leadership, staff, and return to office. November 2020 marked the transition to a
new term for the Board of Executive Directors, and in February we welcomed Makhtar
Diop as IFC Managing Director and Executive Vice President.
We look forward to the widespread availability of COVID-19 vaccines across the
globe, the safe return of the Bank Group’s staff to the office, and the overall return to
a new normal. Our utmost appreciation goes to the staff for their ongoing dedication
to the Bank Group’s mission and their perseverance and hard work over the past year,
despite the immense and sudden change in their working environments and their lives.
The World Bank Group remains ready to help our clients on the path to recovery.
We hope that the new fiscal year brings good health and strong development outcomes for all.
	

MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 	

9

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

The World Bank Group’s Support for Countries During
the COVID-19 Crisis
This year, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to have a detrimen­tal
impact on the health and welfare of billions of people, devastating economies and
worsening inequality around the world. In 2020, about 100 million more p
­ eople
were pushed into extreme poverty. Between 720 and 811 million people in the
world faced hunger in 2020—as many as 161 million more people than in 2019.
School closures put up to 1.6 billion students out of school, bringing significant
losses in learning. Disruptions in health services have meant that many noncommunicable and preventable diseases are going untreated. Women and girls
are especially hard hit by these wide-ranging impacts, as they have been more
likely to lose jobs or remain out of school; they have also faced a rise in
gender-based violence.
The World Bank Group has mounted a broad and decisive response to the
pandemic—the largest in our history. From April 2020 through the end of fiscal
2021, Bank Group financing totaled over $157 billion. The scale of this response
reflects the Bank Group’s strong financial position, underpinned by the 2018 IBRD
and IFC General Capital Increases and the IDA19 Replenishment. It includes $45.6
billion in financing from IBRD for middle-income countries, $53.3 billion of IDA
resources on grant and highly concessional terms for the poorest countries, with
built-in debt relief for countries at risk of debt distress; $42.7 billion1 from IFC to
private companies and financial institutions; $7.6 billion in guarantees from MIGA
to support private sector investors and lenders; and $7.9 billion from recipientexecuted trust funds.
Our response began in April 2020, with our Health Strategic Preparedness and
Response Program. This uses a global multiphase programmatic approach (MPA)
to help countries access financing to address health needs. From April 2020
through June 2021, we committed $8.4 billion for 153 operations under the MPA
and reprioritized $3.1 billion from the portfolio to support over 100 countries in
their response to the pandemic.
In June 2020, we launched the World Bank Group COVID-19 Crisis Response
Approach Paper: Saving Lives, Scaling-up Impact, and Getting Back on Track,
which outlines a framework for our response that is exceptional in speed, scale,
and selectivity. It prioritizes helping countries transition from crisis to recovery by:
(i) saving lives; (ii) protecting the poor and vulnerable; (iii) securing the foundations of the economy; and (iv) strengthening policies and institutions for resilience, based on transparent and sustainable debt and investments.
We also played a key role in the G20’s Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI),
which was established in May 2020 at the urging of the World Bank and the IMF.
1
 Includes long-term commitments from IFC’s own account, short-term finance commitments, and core mobilization.

10	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

In Somalia, we are supporting
direct cash transfers to about
200,000 poor and vulnerable
families (see page 23).

In the Central African Republic,
we are supporting the country’s largest
cash-for-work program, which has
generated livelihood opportunities for
nearly 18,000 people (see page 26).

In Mongolia, we are providing medical
and personal protective equipment and
boosting the capacities of hospitals
across the country (see page 32).

In Turkey, we are helping the
government develop a new digital
education system for up to 5 million
students (see page 37).

In Mexico, we are helping strengthen
environmental sustainability and resilience and
expand access to resilient urban infrastructure
and social housing (see page 41).

In Morocco, we are helping expand the
use of digital technologies in agriculture
and promoting climate-smart practices to
support green growth (see page 47).

In Bangladesh, we are
helping modernize the trade
and investment environment,
protect workers, and enhance
access to jobs (see page 50).

	

FROM CRISIS
SUPPORT
TO FOR
GREEN,
COUNTRIES
RESILIENT,
DURING
AND INCLUSIVE
THE COVID-19
RECOVERY
CRISIS 	 	

11

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

It has delivered more than $5 billion in debt relief to more than 40 participating
countries. Originally set to end in December 2020, the initiative was extended
twice because of the COVID-19 crisis and is expected to end in December 2021.
We are supporting the fair, broad distribution of safe and effective COVID-19
vaccines to developing countries so that they can save lives, bring the pandemic
under control, and strengthen their recovery. In October 2020, as development
of COVID-19 vaccines accelerated globally, we made $12 billion available over
24 months to help countries purchase and deploy safe and effective vaccines,
through additional financing to the global health MPA; we increased this envelope to $20 billion in June 2021. This flexible package allows countries to procure
­vaccines through COVAX or other approved sources and to finance related activities that support deployment and strengthen health systems, such as medical
supplies and personal protective equipment, vaccine cold chains, worker training,
data and information systems, and communications that promote vaccine acceptance. In fiscal 2021, we committed $4.4 billion of the global health MPA to vaccine
financing for 53 countries, including redirected financing from existing projects.
This includes our support to the Africa Vaccine Acquisition Trust, in partnership
with the African Union, announced in June 2021. It will help countries purchase
and deploy COVID-19 vaccines for up to 400 million people, supporting the African
Union’s target to vaccinate 60 percent of the continent’s population by 2022.
IFC is also making $4 billion available to expand health care access and
increase the supply and local production of vaccines and personal protective
equipment in developing countries as well as unlock medical supply bottlenecks.
We are also publishing all of the Bank Group’s operational data on COVID-19 vaccines online. These efforts are further strengthened by ongoing collaboration with
a broad range of global partners, including the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, Gavi, the Global Fund, the IMF, UNICEF, the WHO, and the WTO.
As we work with low- and middle-income countries to address the health crisis and work toward recovery, we are tapping every opportunity to achieve sustainable growth, promote inclusion, and build a better world. We are moving to
strengthen health systems, enhance social protection, address unequal impacts
on women, keep students in school, preserve and create jobs, combat food insecurity, strengthen institutions and delivery of government services, promote
debt sustainability, and mitigate and adapt to climate change. These priorities
are especially important for the poorest countries and those affected by fragility, conflict, and violence. Through our unique combination of financing, analytics, and experience with past crises—and in partnership with governments, the
private sector, and other multilateral organizations—we remain firmly committed
to helping countries emerge from this crisis and move toward a green, resilient,
and inclusive recovery.

12	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

From April 2020 through
the end of fiscal 2021,
the World Bank Group deployed
$157 billion to fight the
COVID-19 pandemic’s health,
economic, and social impacts.

	

FROM CRISIS TO GREEN, RESILIENT, AND INCLUSIVE RECOVERY 	

13

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

The World Bank Group is one of the world’s largest sources of
financing and knowledge for developing countries. It consists of five
institutions that share a commitment to reducing poverty, increasing
shared prosperity, and promoting sustainable growth and development.
◆ International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
lends to governments of middle-income and creditworthy low-income
countries.
◆ International Development Association (IDA) provides financing on
highly concessional terms to governments of the poorest countries.
◆ International Finance Corporation (IFC) provides loans, equity, and
advisory services and mobilizes additional capital from other sources
to stimulate private sector investment in developing countries.
◆ Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) provides political
risk insurance and credit enhancement to investors and lenders to
facilitate foreign direct investment in emerging economies.
◆ International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
(ICSID) provides international facilities for conciliation and arbitration
of investment disputes.

14	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

World Bank Group Financing
for Partner Countries

TABLE 1
WORLD BANK GROUP COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND GROSS ISSUANCE
BY FISCAL YEAR, MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

2017

2018

Commitmentsa

68,274

74,265

Disbursementsb

43,853

45,724

Commitmentsc

22,611

23,002

Disbursements

17,861

Commitmentsc
Disbursements

2019

2020

2021

68,105

83,547

98,830

49,395

54,367

60,596

23,191

27,976

30,523

17,389

20,182

20,238

23,691

19,513d

24,010e

21,932e

30,365e

36,028e

12,718d

14,383

17,549

21,179e

22,921e

Commitmentsf

18,345

19,027

14,684

17,604

20,669

Disbursements

10,355

11,149

9,074

10,518

11,438

4,842

5,251

5,548

3,961

5,199

WORLD BANK GROUP

IBRD

IDA

IFC

MIGA

Gross issuance

RECIPIENT-EXECUTED TRUST FUNDS

Commitments

2,962

2,976

2,749

3,641

6,411

Disbursements

2,919

2,803

2,590

2,433

2,546

a.	Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, Recipient-Executed Trust Fund (RETF) commitments, and MIGA gross
issuance. RETF commitments include all recipient-executed grants; hence total World Bank
Group commitments differ from the amount reported in the Corporate Scorecard, which
includes only a subset of trust-funded activities.
b.	Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, and RETF disbursements.
c.	Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year.
d.	Figures include the commitment and disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
Emergency Financing Facility.
e.	Commitments and disbursements exclude IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window (PSW) activities.
f.	Includes long-term commitments for IFC’s own account and short-term finance commitments.
Does not include funds mobilized from other investors.

	

2021 SUMMARY RESULTS 	

15

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Global Commitments
In fiscal 2021, the World Bank Group delivered record levels of financing at an unprecedented pace; conducted in-depth analysis and research; and partnered with governments, the private sector, and other institutions to help developing countries address the
wide-ranging impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and work toward a green, resilient, and
inclusive recovery.

LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

$17.5
BILLION

$98.8
BILLION

in loans, grants, equity investments, and guarantees to
partner countries and private businesses.
Total includes multiregional and global operations.
Regional breakdowns reflect World Bank country
classifications.

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

$10.9
BILLION

EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

$13.5
BILLION

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

$6.2
BILLION

$15.6
BILLION
SOUTH ASIA

$35.2
BILLION
AFRICA

	

2021 SUMMARY RESULTS 	

17

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

18	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Regional Engagements

The World Bank operates in 142 countries worldwide. The
Bank continues to expand our presence on the ground
in client countries—particularly in those affected by
fragility, conflict, and violence—allowing us to work more
effectively and efficiently with governments and other partners. As of June 2021, 97 percent of Country Directors/
Country Managers and 47 percent of staff are based in
seven geographic regions.

	

THE REGIONS 	

19

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

AFRICA
The COVID-19 pandemic
Sub-Saharan

Africa

into

its

first

has plunged
recession

in over 25 years and exacerbated public debt vulnerabilities, pushing up to 40 million people
into extreme poverty and erasing years of
progress in reducing poverty. Yet the region’s
economic activity is estimated to have contracted by only 2.4 percent in 2020 due to the
virus spreading more slowly than expected, strong
agricultural growth, and rapid recovery in commodity
prices. African countries are also increasingly adopting
digital technologies to boost productivity and increase
employment opportunities, particularly for women and
youth. Growth is expected to rebound to 2.8 percent in 2021 and 3.3 percent in
2022, though this will depend on more rapid deployment of vaccines, credible policies to stimulate private investment, and greater integration into regional and global
value chains under the African Continental Free Trade Area.
The Bank Group is supporting regional integration across Sub-Saharan Africa
and scaling up financing at the country level to help countries respond to the
impacts of the pandemic and stimulate a green, resilient, and inclusive recovery.
Support for regional integration complements national programs to build connectivity in energy, transport, and digital development; promote trade and regional
value chains and integrate financial markets; support human capital development
by enhancing pandemic and disease surveillance, boosting skills, and empowering
women; and reinforce resilience to address challenges related to climate change,
food security, and transboundary waters. We also work with partners to support
cross-border approaches in fragile areas, such as the Sahel, the Lake Chad and
Great Lakes regions, and the Horn of Africa.

20	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Eastern and
Southern Africa
World Bank assistance
In fiscal 2021, the Bank approved $15.6 billion in lending to Eastern and Southern Africa for 100 operations, including $1.5 billion in IBRD commitments and
$14.1 billion in IDA commitments. Revenue from Reimbursable Advisory Services
agreements with five countries was $8 million.
This financing supports investments in the region’s countries to respond to the
impacts of COVID-19, protect livelihoods and create jobs, enhance food and water
security, accelerate innovation, and promote inclusion.

Protecting vulnerable people and livelihoods
Since the start of the pandemic, we have been helping countries strengthen their
social safety net programs to address poverty, safeguard livelihoods, and promote
economic resilience in Eastern and Southern Africa. In Comoros, a development
policy operation is helping improve social protection by developing an electronic
payment system to expand payment services and establishing a social registry
that will increase the responsiveness and efficiency of such programs. In Sudan,
the Family Support Program is providing monthly cash transfers to vulnerable families and improving safety net systems to mitigate the adverse effects of economic
reforms and other shocks. We are partnering with the World Food Programme and
other organizations in this effort, drawing on their experience in implementing cash
support programs in the country. Once implemented, it is expected to reach nearly
32 million people.
Countries can mitigate exclusion risks and reduce the impact of COVID-19 on
women and girls—who are particularly vulnerable to shocks—by focusing on digital
payment programs. In Zambia, the Girls’ Education and Women’s Empowerment and
Livelihood Project is helping increase livelihood support for extremely poor women
as well as access to secondary education for disadvantaged girls from extremely
poor households. The program has helped more than 34,000 women to date.
In Kenya, the Informal Settlements Improvement Project has created more than
26,000 jobs by providing cash-for-work activities for youth, such as street and drainage cleaning, while supporting cleaner environments and better urban infrastructure.
The project’s second phase is improving conditions in informal settlements through
better land tenure security, upgraded infrastructure, and livelihoods support.

Improving food and water security
Even before the pandemic, food and water insecurity were serious concerns
throughout the region, driven by factors that include economic shocks, climate,
and conflict. In Madagascar, we are helping agricultural producers who have been
displaced by pandemic-related travel restrictions gain access to rehabilitated roads
and labor-intensive works to stimulate recovery. In Malawi, we are helping replace
manually operated water kiosks with automated systems to improve access to
water and sanitation, reduce congestion and COVID-19 risks, and lower the cost of
water. And in São Tomé and Príncipe, we are helping expand and improve water,
TABLE 2 EASTERN AND SOUTHERN AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2019–21
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY19	 FY20	FY21	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY19	FY20	FY21

IBRD	 315	 1,716	1,525	 159	 932	 325
IDA	
7,512	 9,581	14,089	 6,168	 7,904	 8,081
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2021: $54.5 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

21

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

sanitation, and hygiene services, with a focus on schools and health centers, to
respond to COVID-19 and protect human capital.

Accelerating the digital economy and promoting green growth
To promote resilient growth, we are supporting Africa’s vision to achieve universal
and affordable access to information and communications technology for every
individual, business, and government by 2030, with an interim goal to double broadband connectivity. To unlock the full benefits of this transformation and strengthen
recovery, countries in Eastern and Southern Africa need to make investments that
support digital infrastructure, including in reliable and affordable electricity, and
develop workers’ skills to better prepare them for the digital economy. In Mozambique, we are supporting a program that increases access to quality education and
enhances teacher training, with a focus on ICT, science, technology, engineering,
mathematics, and climate change.
At the same time, we are working to increase energy access while supporting
countries’ clean energy transition. In fiscal 2021, 77 percent of our energy projects
in Eastern and Southern Africa supported climate action. In Rwanda, the Energy
Access and Quality Improvement Project is helping develop low-cost renewable
energy and expanding grid connections for residential, commercial, industrial, and
public sector consumers. The effort includes the Bank’s largest clean cooking operation in Africa and is the first project co-financed by the Clean Cooking Fund, hosted
by our Energy Sector Management Assistance Program.

Strengthening governance and community services
We work with countries to make the delivery of public services more efficient and
inclusive and to improve the governance of institutions and public agencies, thereby
promoting transparency, accountability, and resilience. In Angola, we are helping
the government improve fiscal policy by introducing clear targets and transparency
requirements. We also provided technical advice to Zimbabwe to improve the agility
and accountability of emergency treasury operations, support real-time audits, and
simplify processes for rapid appraisal and implementation to meet urgent needs.
Strengthening institutions lays the foundations for higher and more sustainable
economic growth, which can help reduce the drivers and impact of fragility, conflict, and violence. The South Sudan Community Resilience and Local Governance
Project is providing access to basic services for conflict-affected communities and
returning refugees, aiming to reduce resource conflict at the local level, expand
women’s access to services, and integrate returning refugees.
In a crucial step forward, Sudan cleared its arrears to IDA in March 2021, enabling
its full reengagement with the Bank Group after nearly three decades. This will allow
the country to access nearly $2 billion in financing for poverty reduction and sustainable economic recovery over the next two years. We are supporting Sudan’s
reform agenda to make its economy more competitive, enhance transparency,
increase investments, create jobs, and strengthen social protection.
FIGURE 1 EASTERN AND SOUTHERN AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2021
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $15.6 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

3%
11%

Transportation

Social Protection

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

7%
10%

17%

12% Energy and Extractives
6%

Public Administration
Information and
Communications Technologies

22	

Education

12%

10%
5%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

7%

Financial Sector
Health

Industry, Trade, and Services

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

Spotlight
Strengthening the social safety net to build resilience and
protect human capital in Somalia
Across Somalia, communities’ crops and livelihoods are diminishing amid recurrent
droughts, severe flooding, the invasion of desert locusts, and the COVID-19 pandemic. Eight out of 10 working women are engaged in vulnerable occupations, such
as farming. The women are often low-paid, lack contracts, and have inadequate
support systems, such as medical insurance to help meet health care expenses or
social security payments that could help family members survive a severe illness
or disability.
The situation is starting to improve with the rollout of the country’s first social
safety net program. Supported by $175 million in grants from IDA, the Baxnaano
national cash transfer program increases support to the country’s poorest people.
It provides direct cash transfers of $20 per month that allow families to supplement
their income; stabilize their spending, particularly amid job losses or other shocks
like COVID-19; and prioritize their children’s health and education. Six months of
these cash transfers make the difference for families to be able to buy food and
clothing and to send their children to school. The project is also improving service
delivery and inclusion in the formal financial system by supporting the use of digital payment systems, which provide transfers directly through cell phones, and by
developing a social registry, which enhances coordination across programs—laying
the foundation for an expanded state-funded social protection system.
To date, over 132,000 poor and vulnerable families have received four quarterly
payments amounting to $240 per household. When fully rolled out, the project will
reach 200,000 households, or more than 1 million people. All of the recipients are
pregnant and lactating women, mothers, or women who are the primary caregiver
of children under 5 years old, helping improve their nutrition and welfare. The efforts
are helping families and women build resilience, withstand shocks, and maintain
spending on their children’s education—a key to better human capital outcomes.

	

THE REGIONS 	

23

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

TABLE 3 EASTERN AND SOUTHERN AFRICA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)
Population growth (annual %)
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)

398

518

2.6

2.7

677
2.6

628

1,376

1,365

GDP per capita growth (annual %)

0.8

2.0

(6.0)

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)

232

247

281

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)

53

60

66

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)

49

57

62

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)

358

544

600

Extreme poverty (% of population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)

58.2

47.7

43.7

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services

9

3

10

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO
estimate)

85

86

87

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)

75

74

70

137

86

60

54

68

69

1

7

21

Access to electricity (% of population)

20

28

44

Renewable energy consumption
(% of total final energy consumption)

66

65

64

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)

23

27

30

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)

41

50

56

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births
Primary completion rate (% of relevant
age group)b
Individuals using the internet
(% of population)

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	The most current data available between 2015 and 2020; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	Data includes all low- and middle-income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/afr.

24	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Western and
Central Africa
World Bank assistance
In fiscal 2021, the Bank approved $11.5 billion in lending to Western and Central
Africa for 98 operations, including $500 million in IBRD commitments and $11.0
billion in IDA commitments. Revenue from Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with one country was $0.7 million.
To help countries in the region tackle the COVID-19 crisis, we are investing in
health and expanding safety nets for their most vulnerable people. We are also supporting recovery by helping strengthen the social contract between citizens and
governments, bolster job creation and economic transformation, improve human
capital, empower women, and boost climate resilience.

Saving lives amid the COVID-19 pandemic
In fiscal 2021, we provided $903 million in financing for 17 countries in Western and
Central Africa to support their emergency health response, with a focus on strengthening prevention, expanding testing, providing medical equipment, and enhancing
health systems and coordination. With the COVID-19 vaccine rollout underway in
many countries, we continue to strengthen health systems and prioritize the production and safe and effective distribution of vaccines. In fiscal 2021, we approved
15 projects totaling $622 million in emergency financing for vaccines, including for
Benin, Cabo Verde, Côte d’Ivoire, the Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia,
Mauritania, Niger, Republic of Congo, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo, with another
four under preparation. Drawing on lessons from the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West
Africa, we committed more than $200 million to the Regional Disease Surveillance
Systems Enhancement Program to support 16 countries in their COVID-19 response
and train medical students through the Advanced Field Epidemiology and Laboratory Training Program.

Protecting the poorest and most vulnerable people
Robust and adaptive social protection programs are key to protecting poor and
vulnerable people and ensuring a resilient recovery. We are providing $1.8 billion
under IDA to scale up social safety nets across Western and Central Africa and to
strengthen social protection measures, recipient registries, cash transfer programs,
and delivery mechanisms; these efforts will benefit about 40 million people. In
Togo, we are supporting the delivery of emergency cash transfers to some of the
poorest families affected by COVID-19, using satellite images and mobile money;
these efforts are also helping modernize the financial sector. In Nigeria, the national
social protection system is providing digital payments to 20 million people living
in extreme poverty, 90 percent of whom are female. In the Gambia, the National
Nutrition Agency is supporting more than 78,000 families in the country’s poorest
districts through cash transfers, while in Cameroon, an adaptive social protection
program has distributed digital payments to 80,000 vulnerable households. In
TABLE 4 WESTERN AND CENTRAL AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2019–21
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY19	 FY20	FY21	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY19	FY20	FY21

IBRD	 505	 9	 500	 531	155	132
IDA	
6,675	 9,514	10,955	 4,022	 5,469	 6,045
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2021: $43.1 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

25

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Nigeria and across the Sahel, we are helping empower women and girls by expanding their access to health care and education and helping reduce child marriage.

Supporting job creation and economic recovery
Boosting the private sector is critical to containing the economic crisis and supporting recovery; small and medium enterprises have been particularly hard hit by
the pandemic. We are scaling up public works and urban programs to create jobs in
low-income communities. In the Central African Republic, the country’s largest cashfor-work program has produced more than 16 million masks while generating livelihood opportunities for nearly 18,000 people and over 300 local firms. In Liberia, the
Youth Opportunities Project has provided more than 10,000 youth, half of whom are
women, with skills and business training and agricultural tools and supplies. In Mali,
we are working with IFC to help boost value chains in the country’s shea, mango,
and livestock industries while removing infrastructure bottlenecks and enhancing
energy access. Under the West Africa Power Pool program, we supported the construction of the Ghana–Burkina Faso Interconnector, which has reduced the cost of
supplying electricity to Burkina Faso and increased Ghana’s electricity export capacity. And through the Energy Access Initiative, we are helping increase energy access
while supporting the clean energy transition, with the goal of providing over 12 million
new connections and generating 1.3 gigawatts in renewable energy in fiscal 2021.

Promoting sustainable green growth
We are providing governments with immediate fiscal relief while continuing to pro­mote transparency and accountability and helping strengthen public procurement
and revenue management. In fiscal 2021, we committed $1.5 billion through 12
development policy operations to support countries’ pandemic responses and
recovery efforts. In Nigeria, we are helping the government implement fiscal measures to promote transparency and accountability, strengthen links between states
and the federal government, and promote citizen engagement. In Cameroon, we
are strengthening community accountability mechanisms in fragile contexts by
improving service delivery for over 1 million people, many of whom are forcibly displaced. In Côte d’Ivoire, the Bank and IFC are establishing the policy and regulatory
framework for environmentally sustainable investments and providing partial credit
guarantee schemes to protect small and medium enterprises. And in the Sahel, we
are promoting climate-smart agriculture and land restoration efforts to support
resilient food systems.
In January 2021, we announced a $5 billion investment over five years to restore
degraded landscapes, improve agricultural productivity, and promote livelihoods
across 11 countries of the Sahel, Lake Chad, and Horn of Africa regions. These efforts
aim to support countries as they recover from the pandemic while also addressing
the impacts of biodiversity loss and climate change.
FIGURE 2 WESTERN AND CENTRAL AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2021
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $11.5 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management
Transportation
Social Protection

10%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

10%

4%

9%

Education

13%
17% Energy and Extractives

Public Administration
Information and
Communications Technologies

26	

5%

17%

10%
3%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

4%

Financial Sector
Health

Industry, Trade, and Services

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Spotlight
Spotlight
Supporting the Sahel’s pastoralists as they face
climate change
Livestock farming provides a livelihood for more than 20 million people in the Sahel,
who migrate each year in search of water and pastures for their herds. The pandemic has led to border closures that have prevented animals from migrating to
their territories of origin and presented risks to their health. The risk of conflict has
also increased between farmers ready to plant and herders unable to move.
The $600 million Regional Sahel Pastoralism Support Program is working to
preserve pastoral systems in Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and
Senegal. It focuses on improving natural resource management and animal health,
mitigating conflicts, facilitating access to markets, and ensuring crisis preparedness
and response. Since 2015, more than 2 million people who depend mainly on pastoralism have benefited from this project. The region has also seen better animal
health thanks to the construction and rehabilitation of nearly 300 vaccination parks,
where more than 200 million animals have been vaccinated, as well as the construction of nearly 70 veterinary units and training for more than 50 veterinarians.
Through this project, we are also helping manage scarce natural resources, thus
improving conditions for herders and their families. The efforts have created over
180 water points along the migration routes, sustainable landscape management
plans covering more than 5 million hectares of pastoral areas, and more than 1,400
kilometers of corridors for the animals. We helped build and rehabilitate nearly 70
livestock markets and a dozen slaughterhouses, improving pastoralists’ access to
markets and boosting commercial activities and incomes. The project has also provided livelihood opportunities for more than 20,000 people, of whom 88 percent are
women; developed early warning systems; and provided crisis prevention training
for experts, which facilitates peaceful dialogue between communities and herders
to mitigate pastoral crises.

	

THE REGIONS 	

27

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

TABLE 5 WESTERN AND CENTRAL AFRICA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)
Population growth (annual %)
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)

267

351

2.7

2.8

459
2.7

453

1,564

1,646

GDP per capita growth (annual %)

0.9

3.8

(3.5)

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)

156 b

165

154

50

55

59

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)

48

53

57

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)

120

166

224

Extreme poverty (% of population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)

56.9 b

47.1

34.5

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services

10

2

4

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO
estimate)

82

83

80

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)

86

82

79

170

122

97

54

68

69

0

7

15

Access to electricity (% of population)

35

42

51

Renewable energy consumption
(% of total final energy consumption)

83

81

80

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)

23

28

32

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)

53

62

68

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births
Primary completion rate (% of relevant
age group)c
Individuals using the internet
(% of population)

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	The most current data available between 2015 and 2020; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2001 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 Data includes all low- and middle-income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/afr.

28	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

EAST ASIA & PACIFIC
The economies of East Asia and the Pacific began to bounce back after a severe
economic shock in 2020, but recovery has been uneven. Only China and Vietnam have followed a V-shape growth path, with output surpassing pre-pandemic
levels in 2020. In the other major economies, output remained on average about
5 percent below previous levels, with the smallest gap in Indonesia (2.2 percent) and
the largest gap in the Philippines (8.4 percent). Economic contraction has been particularly severe and persistent in some of the small island economies, with output
in 2020 more than 10 percent below pre-pandemic levels in Fiji, Palau, and Vanuatu.
China and Vietnam are projected to grow by 8.5 percent and 6.6 percent, respectively, in 2021, while the rest of the region is projected to grow by only 4.0 percent.
Recovery is expected to be especially protracted in tourism-dependent island economies, with growth projected to be negative in about half of these countries, despite
their having been largely spared from direct impacts of the pandemic.
Due to economic distress, poverty in the region stopped declining for the first
time in 20 years; the crisis will prevent an estimated 29 million people from escaping
poverty by the end of 2021. Inequality increased because of the pandemic and the
resulting shutdowns, as well as unequal access to social support and digital technologies. In some countries, children of households in the bottom two-fifths of the
population are 20 percentage points less likely to be engaged in learning activities
than those in the wealthiest fifth.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $7.9 billion for 38 operations in the region in fiscal
2021, including $6.8 billion in IBRD commitments and $1.1 billion in IDA commitments. The Bank also signed Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with
four countries for a total of $3.2 million.
Our work in the region focuses on three main areas: human capital and inclusion,
private sector–led growth, and resilience and sustainability—with the COVID-19
response being an integral part of our work in fiscal 2021. We continue to deepen our
partnerships with some of the region’s non-borrowing member countries, including
Korea, Malaysia, and Singapore, allowing us to generate and exchange development
knowledge, lessons, and solutions for shared development priorities.

Addressing the COVID-19 crisis
As part of the Bank’s COVID-19 fast-track facility, we are implementing emergency
projects in several countries, including Cambodia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Papua New Guinea, and the Philippines. These projects provide emergency
TABLE 6 EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2019–21
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY19	 FY20	FY21	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY19	FY20	FY21

IBRD	 4,030	 4,770	6,753	 5,048	4,679	4,439
IDA	
1,272	 2,500	1,115	 1,282	1,589	1,297
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2021: $37.5 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

29

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

financing to purchase medical and laboratory supplies, train medical staff, and
strengthen national public health systems. We restructured existing projects in
Cambodia, the Federated States of Micronesia, Mongolia, the Philippines, Samoa,
Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu to fight the pandemic, including by activating Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Options. We are also helping Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao
PDR, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, and the Philippines finance the purchase or
distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, tests, and treatments. In Vietnam, we prepared
a series of policy notes with strategies and recommendations to help contain the
spread of COVID-19, protect vulnerable groups from the pandemic’s impacts, and
stimulate a broad-based recovery.

Building human capital and promoting economic inclusion
Investing in human capital is key to ensuring long-term sustainable growth and
reducing poverty. In Indonesia, the Bank is supporting the Keluarga Harapan (PKH)
conditional cash transfer program, which has helped reduce child stunting rates,
school dropouts, and child labor. In 2017, we supported its expansion from 6 million to 10 million families, making it the second-largest such program in the world.
The Bank also supported the government’s COVID-19 response through $98 million
in additional financing for the Social Assistance Reform Program, providing emergency cash transfers to existing PKH beneficiaries. In the Philippines, the Pantawid
Pamilya Pilipino Program covers over 4 million households with children under 18
and encourages parents to invest in their health and education. These efforts have
helped increase school attendance and reduce the gender gap in enrollment. The
program’s success accounted for a quarter of the country’s poverty reduction over
the past seven years.

Promoting private sector–led growth
Expanding private sector opportunities and creating an enabling environment for
investment and innovation are crucial to ensuring sustainable growth. In Lao PDR,
we are helping small businesses weather the economic slowdown by enhancing
their access to finance.
Across the Pacific, the management and sustainability of fisheries and related
habitats are vital to the region’s future. Here our Pacific Islands Regional Oceanscape Program is active in the Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, Marshall
Islands, Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Tuvalu and includes a regional project under
the Forum Fisheries Agency.

FIGURE 3 EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2021
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.9 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

5%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

2%
1%

5%

Transportation

Education

3%
Social Protection

Public Administration

16%

30	

16%
14%

20%

Information and
Communications Technologies

Energy and Extractives

1%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

15%

Financial Sector
Health

Industry, Trade, and Services

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

In Indonesia, we provided $800 million to support investment and trade policy
reforms that will help address vulnerabilities, accelerate recovery, and support economic transformation, especially in light of the pandemic. These efforts will open
more sectors to private investment and particularly help attract foreign direct
investment, including in solar energy. They will also help prepare highly skilled professionals for the labor market, increase the accessibility and affordability of basic
food commodities and raw materials, and expand access to manufacturing inputs.
In the Philippines, we are supporting a program to modernize and improve the
efficiency of the country’s customs agency through risk-based compliance management and efforts to automate and digitize the customs processing system. The
changes will help reduce trade costs and enable small and medium enterprises to
access international markets and participate in global value chains.

Building resilience and sustainability
East Asia and the Pacific remains highly vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
We support projects across the region to help enhance resilience, reduce pollution
and emissions, support climate-smart agriculture, and transition toward clean or
renewable energy. To help address the rising sea levels in the Pacific as well as the
increased frequency of hurricanes, we are supporting a project in the Federated
States of Micronesia that will make road networks—including those connecting
ports and airports—climate resilient while preparing them for efficient disaster
recovery. It is the sixth in a series of projects covering transport networks under
the Pacific Climate Resilient Transport Program, which has pioneered a flexible
approach that addresses shared vulnerabilities while tailoring solutions to meet
countries’ specific needs.
In Lao PDR, we are helping strengthen resilience to natural disasters through two
projects under the IDA Crisis Response Window. The Southeast Asia Disaster Risk
Management Project reduces the impacts of flooding, enhances disaster monitoring, and implements insurance mechanisms and a national risk financing strategy.
A roads sector project finances climate resilience in critical sections of the country’s
road network. And in the Philippines, we are helping foster resilience and recovery
by supporting more than 15,000 community projects in areas affected by Typhoon
Haiyan in 2013 and over 2,600 community projects in response to COVID-19.

	

THE REGIONS 	

31

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Spotlight
Supporting Mongolia’s comprehensive COVID-19
emergency response
In 2020, Mongolia instituted comprehensive measures that prevented COVID-19
outbreaks for most of the year, including quarantine and self-isolation guidelines, suspension of large public gatherings, investments to strengthen its
health system, and efforts to raise public awareness. To support the response,
in March 2020 the World Bank reallocated funds from an existing health project to provide immediate financing, which allowed the government to purchase
diagnostic equipment and strengthen hospital preparedness. We also helped facilitate procurement to ensure the delivery of high-quality equipment amid rising
global demand.
The $27 million COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Project is supporting Mongolia’s emergency needs while also helping the
country prepare for future health crises. The project provided medical and personal protective equipment to provincial and district hospitals across Mongolia,
as well as central hospitals in cities. This helped improve patient care and increase
the facilities’ diagnostic, laboratory, and treatment capacity. Hospitals are now
able to transport COVID-19 patients safely by isolation chamber, while emergency
and intensive care wards are equipped with key technologies. The project supplied hospitals with ventilators and helped designate a special isolation hospital
for COVID-19 patients. It supported training for emergency care doctors, nurses,
and paramedical staff, as well as infection control measures and public information
campaigns.
In February 2021, the Bank approved $51 million in additional financing to
support fair and affordable access to COVID-19 vaccines. In addition to the purchase of medicines, this will support effective delivery through national and local
roll-out plans that include a cold chain upgrade, logistical support, information
campaigns, and staff training. The Bank has provided an additional $1 million
grant to complement these measures and help the country supply more than
4 million pieces of personal protective equipment to health care providers and
officers at high-risk screening points.
The Bank is also helping the country mitigate the worst impacts of the
pandemic and achieve better outcomes in education, social protection, governance, and small and medium enterprises. Support for social insurance has provided direct relief for about 120,000 people enrolled in the country’s voluntary
plan—including self-employed workers, microentrepreneurs, and the informally
employed—as well as workers and employers in the formal sector. This helped people cover daily expenses during the crisis while also maintaining access to pensions,
disability and unemployment benefits, and paid maternity leave. We also mobilized
$5 million through an education project to support the government’s Child Money
Program, benefiting more than 1 million children.

32	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

TABLE 7 EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)
Population growth (annual %)

1,816

1,966

2,105

1.0

0.7

0.5

GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)

910

3,760

8,362

GDP per capita growth (annual %)

6.4

9.0

0.5

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)

632

212

20

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)

72

75

78

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)

68

71

73

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)

4,131

9,645

11,908

Extreme poverty (% of population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)

34.8

10.8

1.0

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services

8

2

2

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO
estimate)

82

79

78

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)

62

51

45

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births

42

23

15

Primary completion rate (% of relevant
age group)

92

96

99

2

29

51

Access to electricity (% of population)

93

95

98

Renewable energy consumption
(% of total final energy consumption)

32

16

16

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)

56

72

82

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)

80

88

92

Individuals using the internet
(% of population)

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	The most current data available between 2015 and 2020; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/eap.

	

THE REGIONS 	

33

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

EUROPE &
CENTRAL ASIA
Europe and Central Asia is forecast to expand 3.9 percent in 2021, predicated on
a faster pace of vaccination in the region’s largest economies during the second
half of the year. However, the outlook remains challenging, with the pandemic worsening in recent months, as well as tighter macroeconomic policies, greater policy
uncertainty, and geopolitical tensions. Growth is expected to stabilize at 3.9 percent
in 2022.
The pandemic could erase at least five years of per capita income gains in ­several
countries and increase poverty by as many as 6 million people, largely due to job
losses. Other shocks have also presented challenges for the region, including major
earthquakes in Albania, Croatia, Greece, Tajikistan, and Turkey, as well as conflicts
affecting the south Caucasus and eastern Ukraine. Europe and Central Asia is
also home to 10 of the world’s 20 most carbon-intensive economies, while natural
resources—air, water, and forests—are being depleted at unsustainable rates. One
in eight deaths in Europe can be attributed to pollution; in the Western Balkans, one
in four.

World Bank assistance
In fiscal 2021, the World Bank approved $5.9 billion in lending to the region for
51 operations, including $4.6 billion in IBRD commitments and $1.3 billion in IDA
commitments. The Bank delivered 254 Advisory and Analytical Services, including
regular economic reports for countries, as well as policy notes to support the crisis
response in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, and North Macedonia.
Surveys in Central Asia and with the private sector in Kosovo provided key insights
to underpin policy recommendations. We also helped countries across the region
exchange good practices in crisis response.
We are helping the region’s countries prepare for a green, resilient, and inclusive
recovery by building on our emergency response to the pandemic and focusing on
the medium-term structural reform agenda. Our priorities here cover four broad
areas: supporting a green transition, boosting human capital, enabling markets, and
building and strengthening institutions.

Supporting a green transition
We are providing countries with knowledge products and financing to support
their green transition in five areas: moving toward low-carbon economies, renewing natural capital to address unsustainable resource extraction and environmental degradation, strengthening resilience to natural disasters and climate change,
investing in inclusive infrastructure, and facilitating just social transitions toward a
green economy.
In Uzbekistan, the Bank worked with IFC and MIGA to help mobilize private
financing for solar energy. We are helping implement the 100-megawatt Navoi
TABLE 8 EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2019–21
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

FY19	 FY20	FY21	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY19	FY20	FY21

3,749	 5,699	4,559	 2,209	3,100	3,625
583	 1,497	1,315	 931	 365	 880

Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2021: $32.2 billion.

34	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Scaling Solar Project, the first competitively selected private investment in the
country’s renewable energy sector. In Serbia, we are supporting the reform of policy and institutional frameworks for climate change and air pollution through our
knowledge activities and lending. We are also supporting Serbia and other countries
in their just transition away from coal.
Across the Western Balkans, the $134 million Sava and Drina River Economic
Corridor Integrated Development Program is improving flood protection and
enhancing transboundary water cooperation, reaching millions of people in five
countries. We also began preparing Country Climate and Development Reports
for several countries, in alignment with the Bank Group’s new Climate Change
Action Plan.

Boosting human capital
The pandemic has adversely affected education and health in the region, with over
400,000 lives lost and school closures estimated to have caused learning losses of
up to one full year of schooling. In fiscal 2021, we committed $242 million to address
the health impacts of COVID-19 in eight countries, in addition to scaling up social
protection for an estimated 16 million people. In Tajikistan, we provided $9 million
to increase hospitals’ capacity to treat COVID-19 patients, including protective
personal equipment and oxygen supply, and extended one-time emergency cash
assistance to 70,000 vulnerable households; we also provided a $13 million grant
for procurement and deployment of COVID-19 vaccines.
We are also helping countries improve education in response to the impacts
of COVID-19. In Ukraine, the Improving Higher Education for Results Project will
expand digitization to support learning continuity, strengthen operational resilience,
and improve the quality and relevance of higher education to meet labor-market
demands. In Romania, a $121 million project will help upgrade schools to meet modern standards and improve digital access, especially for schools that are at high risk
of severe earthquake damage or do not meet requirements for fire safety, sanitation,
or air quality.
The regional economic update from fall 2020 focused on the pandemic’s impact
on human capital and provided new estimates on the quality of higher education in
the region, as well as the impact of health risk factors on adults’ productivity.

Enabling markets
We are helping countries reinvigorate private investment to boost growth and jobs
as well as strengthen the private sector to compete in a changing global economy. As part of countercyclical measures in response to the pandemic, we are also

FIGURE 4 EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2021
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.9 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

3%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

11%

7%

Transportation

6%
Social Protection

9%

Public Administration

14%

Information and
Communications Technologies
Industry, Trade, and Services

	

Education

11% Energy and Extractives

18%

2%
12%

7%

Financial Sector

Health

THE REGIONS 	

35

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

helping viable small and medium enterprises affected by COVID-19 avert closure
and maintain employment levels: efforts include the $500 million Emergency Firm
Support Project in Turkey and the $200 million Helping Enterprises Access Liquidity Project in Croatia, which helps firms headed by women and those operating in
lagging regions. The $300 million Rapid Support for Micro and Small Enterprises
Project in Turkey supports manufacturing and innovative young firms. The Bank is
supporting similar efforts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, the Kyrgyz
Republic, and Ukraine.

Building and strengthening institutions
The pandemic has underscored the importance of good governance and strong
institutions; it has prompted governments to rethink tax and revenue policies and
ensure quality spending and services. We are promoting greater use of information technology for more efficient public sector management and service delivery
to people and businesses. We continue to work on long-standing issues, such as
ensuring sound macrofinancial policies and regulatory frameworks; strengthening institutions, governance, and state effectiveness; and modernizing policies and
institutions to support infrastructure.
In Tajikistan, we provided $6 million in additional IDA financing to help build
up the efficiency, accountability, and transparency of public financial management. We are also providing $500 million to strengthen the transparency and
inclusiveness of Uzbekistan’s ambitious economic and social transformation to
a private sector–led economy. Efforts here include the $33 million Institutional
Capacity Building Project, which is helping Uzbekistan improve fiscal transparency and establish a systematic approach to management and privatization of
state-owned enterprises.
The regional economic update from spring 2021 shows that digitalization and
better data can improve government efficiency, accountability, and service delivery;
address corruption; and strengthen linkages between citizens and governments.
These are priorities for governments across the region.

36	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

Spotlight
Digital transformation to power green, resilient, and
inclusive development
The COVID-19 crisis has spurred significant shifts in how people work, bank, learn,
play, and access public services. Much of this change has been powered by digital technologies, as home-based work, distance learning, telemedicine, and online
delivery of government services have become more mainstream. Universal access
to secure, high-quality, and affordable internet connectivity enables resilient social
and economic development and has become critical infrastructure for urban and
rural areas alike. But greater dependence on digital technologies has also exposed
new risks and vulnerabilities. Cybersecurity and personal data protection are also
greater concerns as tracking apps and facial recognition technologies are more
widely deployed.
Throughout Europe and Central Asia, the World Bank is helping countries
leverage the power of digital technologies as they work toward a green, resilient,
and inclusive recovery. In Georgia, a $40 million project aims to increase access
to affordable broadband internet and promote the use of digital services. This will
help 500,000 people across 1,000 villages access the internet and e-services, such
as health care and education, and connect to more economic opportunities and
jobs. In the Kyrgyz Republic, we are helping link farmers with markets by using digital technology to strengthen livelihoods, raise incomes, and build more resilience
in agrifood value chains. A smartphone app enables milk processors to record daily
deliveries from small farmers and track milk quality. This is helping improve product
quality and give small farmers opportunities to generate higher incomes.
In Turkey, the Safe Schooling and Distance Education Project is helping expand
access to the online education system from 300,000 students to 1 million and
develop a new system that will reach up to 5 million students. It includes support
for emergency connectivity and IT infrastructure, digital content, and institutional
capacity. The project addresses both the immediate needs arising from the pandemic, particularly due to school closures, as well as long-term education needs
by improving blended learning. We are supporting a similar project in Romania, as
well as efforts to secure distance education equipment and strengthen curricula in
Georgia and North Macedonia.
The pandemic has also shown that digitalized supply chains and logistics are
more resilient. In Turkey, the Rail Logistics Improvement Project will deliver last-mile
rail connections to key ports and nodes of the national railway network as well as
strengthen institutions for digitalization, with the aim of doubling the volume of rail
freight. The effort will reduce emissions and make logistics chains more resilient to
climate change. Along the corridor between the South Caucasus and Central Asia,
we are working with railways and ports to support the planning and deployment of a
digital logistics platform between Azerbaijan, Georgia, and Kazakhstan.
	

THE REGIONS 	

37

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

TABLE 9 EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)

392

398

Population growth (annual %)

0.0

0.5

0.4

1,794

7,469

7,900

GDP per capita growth (annual %)

8.0

4.5

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)

34

11

5

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)

73

75

78

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)

63

66

70

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)

GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)

420

(1.9)

2,601

2,877

2,949

Extreme poverty (% of population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)

7.3

2.4

1.0

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services

11

6

7

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO
estimate)

73

72

71

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)

25

20

18

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births

36

19

12

Primary completion rate (% of relevant
age group)

94

98

99

2

36

79

Individuals using the internet
(% of population)
Access to electricity (% of population)

100

100

100

Renewable energy consumption
(% of total final energy consumption)

6

6

6

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)

86

91

94

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)

93

95

96

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	The most current data available between 2015 and 2020; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/eca.

38	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

LATIN AMERICA &
THE CARIBBEAN
In the first year of the pandemic, Latin America and the Caribbean was the region
hardest hit by COVID-19, with a sharp drop in economic activity and significant
impacts on health and human capital coming after several years of sluggish growth
and limited progress in social indicators. Regional GDP fell by 6.5 percent in 2020
and is expected to climb 5.2 percent in 2021.
Poverty has risen sharply in many countries, although emergency measures
have helped mitigate the regional impact. The share of households living in poverty
was down slightly in 2020 at 21.9 percent, but the percentage of vulnerable people
increased from 36.9 percent of the population in 2019 to 38.5 percent in 2020. The
COVID-19 crisis will have a long-term impact on the region: lower levels of learning
and employment are likely to reduce future earnings, while high levels of debt may
strain the financial sector and slow recovery.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $10.2 billion in lending to the region for 49 operations in fiscal
2021, including $9.5 billion in IBRD commitments and $769 million in IDA commitments. We signed nine Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with three
countries for a total of $2.3 million.
The World Bank supports the region’s countries by protecting and investing in
human capital; building resilience to better manage and withstand shocks; promoting inclusive growth; attracting private investment; strengthening institutions; and
engaging with traditionally excluded groups, including Indigenous Peoples, Afrodescendants, and rural communities. Over the past year, our work in these areas
has focused on the response to the COVID-19 crisis—most notably on health, social
protection, education, support to businesses, and job creation, as well as helping
countries purchase and deploy vaccines. We will continue to support progress on
structural reforms while investing in inclusion, gender equality, productive jobs, and
climate resilience.

Promoting inclusive growth
We support inclusive growth in the region by helping increase productivity, foster
accountability, promote digital transformation, and create opportunities for all.
We helped Panama increase the percentage of extremely poor people benefiting
from social assistance from 37 to 81 percent, while also reducing energy subsidies,
improving public financial management, and bolstering supervision of the banking industry to strengthen financial integrity and tax transparency. In Ecuador, we
supported emergency cash transfers to protect the most vulnerable people from
TABLE 10 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2019–21
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY19	 FY20	FY21	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY19	FY20	FY21

IBRD	 5,709	 6,798	9,464	 4,847	5,799	 8,741
IDA	 430	 978	 769	 340	466	495
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2021: $32.2 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

39

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

the impacts of the pandemic, reaching more than 820,000 people; we also helped
provide more flexible work arrangements, better access to unemployment benefits,
and digital banking.

Investing in human capital
Ensuring access to quality health services and education remains a leading priority
for the region. In Brazil, we provided nearly 60,000 medical professionals with training in neonatal and obstetric emergency care, helping reduce maternal mortality
from 65.1 to 43.3 per 100,000 women and infant mortality from 12.2 to 10.3 per
1,000 births between 2010 and 2019. Our support also helped increase graduation
rates in primary schools, strengthen teacher training, and expand the number of
teachers working in Indigenous areas from 437 in 2014 to more than 800 in 2019.
In Colombia, a $320 million project is helping disadvantaged youth enroll in
higher education by expanding access to student loans. More than 124,000 students have graduated under the program. In Costa Rica, we helped increase enrollment in public universities by 20 percent, reaching 19,000 more students. And in
Haiti, we promoted economic inclusion for people with disabilities through communications campaigns, workshops with local firms, and training and tools to pursue
employment in various fields.

Supporting a green and sustainable recovery
Climate change and environment degradation pose urgent and growing challenges
for Latin America and the Caribbean. In alignment with the Bank Group’s new Climate Change Action Plan, we are helping countries rebuild better while protecting
the poorest people, who are especially vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
This includes support for more resilient infrastructure that can weather storms and
other disasters. In Uruguay, more than 1,800 kilometers of highways were rehabilitated from impacts of tornadoes, heavy rainfall, droughts, and heat waves. In
Colombia, we provided $1.4 billion through a series of programs to sustain access to
critical infrastructure services amid the COVID-19 crisis, while also laying the policy
foundations for recovery through sustainable and resilient infrastructure. In Belize,
the Marine Conservation and Climate Adaptation Project is strengthening the climate resilience of critical ecosystems, expanding coverage of marine-protected
areas in the country’s territorial waters, restoring 12 coral sites, and boosting livelihoods for more than 1,500 people. In Brazil, we are providing technical assistance
to help reform the power, gas, and mining sectors—among the main drivers of the
economy—with the aim of enhancing competitiveness and efficiency, leveraging
FIGURE 5 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2021
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $10.2 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

4%

4%

8%

Transportation

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

4%

Education

6% Energy and Extractives
Social Protection

12%

19%

9%
6%
Public Administration

40	

23%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

Financial Sector
Health
Industry, Trade,
and Services
Information and

5% Communications Technologies

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

private finance for sustainable energy and mining infrastructure, and strengthening climate change resilience.
Mexico is highly vulnerable to the effects of climate change and environmental
degradation, a situation amplified by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. To
help, we are working with the government to strengthen environmental sustainability and resilience as well as expand access to resilient urban infrastructure
and social housing. These efforts will help regulate emissions, measure air quality
in the largest cities, and conserve forests, as well as improve living conditions for
more than 1 million ­people in urban areas.

Providing advisory services to support development goals
In addition to financing, we provide advisory services, technical assistance, and
analyses to support countries’ development goals. Our Acting Now to Protect
the Human Capital of Our Children report calls attention to the region’s unprecedented education crisis, with recommendations for policies to contain and reverse
the damage. Our Future Foodscapes report looks at policies for the food sector to
drive sustainable and inclusive growth. In Going Viral, we urge the region’s policy
makers to invest in human capital and rethink labor regulations and social protection policies.
In Women’s Participation in the Labor Market in Mexico, we emphasize that
expanding opportunities and inclusion for women is critical for the country’s development. Social Inclusion in Uruguay draws attention to the link between chronic
poverty and social exclusion of Afro-descendants, people with disabilities, single
mothers, and transgender people. In Colombia, we are providing technical assistance to find long-term solutions to integrate migrants from Venezuela. We also
prepared a report proposing solutions to address the country’s pervasive challenge
of high inequality, as well as an interactive dashboard with data for more than 1,100
municipalities to inform decision making about how to reopen economies safely
while mitigating the spread of the pandemic. In Brazil, we are working on comprehensive social protection reform to improve resilience to economic shocks, including the pandemic. We are also working with UNICEF to help expand Guatemala’s
safety net program.
In Central America, we are supporting efforts to recover from and rebuild after
hurricanes Eta and Iota, which hit Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in November 2020. And in the Caribbean, we provided technical assistance to strengthen
risk-informed policy making and financial protection from natural hazards, including in Grenada, Jamaica, and Saint Lucia. We also implemented Catastrophe
Deferred Drawdown Option (Cat-DDO) projects in Grenada and in Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines to reinforce fiscal sustainability and enhance resilience to disaster
and climate risks.

	

THE REGIONS 	

41

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

Spotlight
Protecting human capital in Latin America and the
Caribbean amid COVID-19
The pandemic has had catastrophic health, economic, and social impacts throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. The region has seen some of the world’s highest fatality rates; high levels of urbanization and informality and an aging population
increase the health risks from COVID-19. More than half of the region’s households
have reported income losses, and 18 million people have experienced food insecurity. School closures have affected over 170 million students, with an estimated 1.7
years in learning losses.
The Bank Group has moved quickly to help address these challenges, mobilizing
$19.7 billion in fiscal 2021. Much of the support focuses on protecting the region’s
gains in health, education, and jobs.
In Argentina, we provided $35 million to support early detection, case tracking, and procurement of vital medical supplies and equipment. The project is
also strengthening the public health lab network and expanding intensive care
services. In Bolivia, we provided $254 million to help fund cash transfers to poor
and vulnerable households, including those with school-age children, people with
disabilities, elderly members, and informal workers. In Jamaica, a $150 million
development policy loan is helping the government provide emergency financial
assistance to vulnerable people, supporting businesses as they cope with the
economic shock, and strengthening financial institutions for sustainable recovery and climate resilience. And in Brazil, we provided $1 billion to expand the
Bolsa Familia program to help over 1 million more families cope with the crisis and
protect their incomes.
To understand the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on education, we are assessing
the extent of learning losses and socioemotional damage in Bolivia, Colombia, the
Dominican Republic, Mexico, and Peru. We are helping countries across the region
mitigate these impacts by strengthening the quality of teaching, building and rehabilitating schools, developing virtual and other alternative platforms for learning,
and promoting more equitable education. In Guyana, we are providing $14 million in
additional financing to improve teaching, increase enrollment in secondary schools,
and introduce adaptive learning software for higher quality instruction in mathematics. In Nicaragua, $7 million in additional financing will help support students
with disabilities; improve water, sanitation, and hygiene in schools; and expand
training for teachers and school administrators.

42	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

TABLE 11 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)

472

535

1.5

1.1

1.0

4,017

7,628

7,181

GDP per capita growth (annual %)

2.3

5.5

(7.2)

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)

66

35

24

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)

75

77

79

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)

68

71

72

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)

Population growth (annual %)
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)

595

1,046

1,313

1,408

Extreme poverty (% of population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)

12.7

6.0

3.7

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services

23

7

13

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO
estimate)

60

66

69

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)

36

33

34

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births

34

25

16

Primary completion rate (% of relevant
age group)

98

100

99

3

34

66

Access to electricity (% of population)

91

96

98

Renewable energy consumption
(% of total final energy consumption)

30

30

29

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)

72

81

86

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)

90

94

97

Individuals using the internet
(% of population)

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	The most current data available between 2015 and 2020; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/lac.

	

THE REGIONS 	

43

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

MIDDLE EAST &
NORTH AFRICA
Regional output in the Middle East and North Africa contracted 3.8 percent in 2020,
due to the pandemic and the collapse in oil prices. It is expected to rebound by 2.2
percent in 2021, on the back of a global recovery and higher oil prices. But by the end
of 2021, GDP losses are expected to be equivalent to more than $220 billion dollars,
or 7.2 percent of 2019 levels. The region is expected to recover only partially in 2021,
depending, in part, on a widespread rollout of COVID-19 vaccines.
The pandemic has exacerbated the region’s long-standing development challenges, including high unemployment and underemployment among youth and
women, weak trust in government, and poor returns on human capital investments.
Poverty levels have risen across the region, while governments face deteriorating
public finances and growing debt vulnerabilities. The challenges are especially acute
in conflict-affected countries. Meanwhile, climate vulnerabilities continue to grow,
intensifying threats to the region’s long-term development.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $4.6 billion in lending to the region for 23 operations in
fiscal 2021, including $4.0 billion in IBRD commitments and $658 million in IDA
commitments. Another $114 million were provided for projects supporting the
West Bank and Gaza. We delivered 134 Advisory Services and Analytics products,
and revenue from Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS) agreements reached
$30 million. The consolidated advisory program continues to provide ongoing support to the reform process in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries.
Our work with countries has several aims: to boost human capital by modernizing education, health, and social protection systems; to restore trust by strengthening governance and transparency; to create jobs by promoting competitive markets
and private sector–led growth; to advance gender equity by bringing more women
into the economy; to address fragility by supporting reconstruction and targeting the root causes of conflict; and to enable green growth by combating climate
change and environmental degradation while preparing for energy transitions.

Protecting human capital amid the COVID-19 pandemic
Throughout the region, the Bank is helping countries respond to needs arising from
COVID-19 while also supporting efforts to improve human capital. Our financing is
helping address the learning crisis, reform education for better skills, strengthen
health systems and public health capacity, and modernize social protection. We
supported cash transfer projects in several countries to help mitigate the impacts
of COVID-19 and build more resilient and adaptive safety net systems that can cope
with future crises and address high levels of labor informality. Under the restructured Lebanon Health Resilience Project, we provided $40 million to help the country procure ventilators, intensive care unit beds, and other critical equipment; a
further $18 million was reallocated to support deployment of COVID-19 vaccines.
TABLE 12 MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2019–21
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY19	 FY20	FY21	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY19	FY20	FY21

IBRD	 4,872	 3,419	3,976	 4,790	2,415	2,764
IDA	
611	 203	658	 647	 151	 379
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2021: $22.1 billion.

44	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

Through $15 million in additional financing to the Djibouti Integrated Cash Transfers
Project, we are helping the country strengthen its social safety net system, expand
access to basic services, and improve food security. In Jordan, we committed $20
million to prevent, detect, and respond to COVID-19 and strengthen the national
health system. A separate project is providing cash support to poor and vulnerable
households in Jordan that are affected by the pandemic.
In Yemen, the Bank committed $204 million to strengthen national institutions,
provide cash transfers, create temporary employment opportunities, and increase
access to basic services for those affected by COVID-19 and other shocks. To address
ongoing challenges to education, we partnered with UNICEF and the World Food
Programme through the $100 million Restoring Education and Learning Emergency
Project to support teachers, facilitate school feeding programs, improve school
infrastructure, and distribute learning materials and school supplies. We also partnered with the World Food Programme on the Food Security Response and Resilience Project, which will provide cash-for-work opportunities and nutritious food for
vulnerable households. It will also help restore agricultural production, strengthen
the value chain, and increase the sales of crops, livestock, and fish products—helping build longer-term resilience in Yemen.
Following the explosion at the port of Beirut in August 2020, we launched
a rapid damage and needs assessment in partnership with the EU and the UN.
The assessment underpinned efforts to support recovery, address people’s basic
needs, implement reforms, and rebuild critical assets, services, and infrastructure.
In Saudi Arabia, our RAS is enabling historic reforms for women’s empowerment,
while in the United Arab Emirates, our advisory services helped introduce paid
parental leave in the private sector—a first in the region—and amend the labor law
to mandate equal pay.

Strengthening governance and transparency
Across the region, perceptions of corruption and a lack of transparency undermine
the effectiveness of crisis response efforts, thereby deepening economic impacts,
undermining people’s trust in government, and threatening social cohesion. This is
further compounded by limited or unreliable data and statistics. The Bank is working with countries to strengthen local governments’ capacity to deliver services
and engage with citizens, thus helping renew the social contract. In Jordan, a new
$500 million Program-for-Results aims to strengthen public and private investment
and help the country capitalize on emerging opportunities for recovery, including
in green growth, tourism development, and female labor force participation. By
developing better systems for citizen feedback, the program will also help Jordan
strengthen its accountability mechanisms to effectively implement new policies and
promote investments.
FIGURE 6 MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2021
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $4.6 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management
Transportation

3%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

4%
7%

14%

Education

6%

Financial Sector

9%
5%
2%
Social Protection

	

34%

17%

Health
Industry, Trade,
and Services
Information and
Communications
Technologies
Public Administration

THE REGIONS 	

45

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

Creating jobs by promoting competitive markets and
private sector–led growth
The COVID-19 crisis has sharply reduced economic output in a region that was
already struggling to create enough jobs for its young workforce. Lower demand,
suspension of non-essential activities, financial constraints, facility closures, and
supply chain interruptions have all disrupted key sectors. But there are also opportunities in emerging fields, such as digital service delivery, although these require
investments in infrastructure, skills, and capacity. In Jordan, the $163 million Youth,
Technology, and Jobs Project is helping poor and vulnerable youth—including both
Jordanians and Syrians—find opportunities in the digital economy by improving
market-relevant skills, providing access to finance for high-growth companies, and
creating jobs. Similarly, a $15 million project in the West Bank and Gaza is helping
create more highly skilled jobs at local IT firms.

Gender equality: bringing more women into the economy
The region has the world’s lowest female labor force participation, as women cope
with fewer opportunities, limited voice and agency, legal restrictions, and financial
exclusion. The COVID-19 crisis has exacerbated these challenges, as women are
burdened with greater care and household responsibilities and face higher rates
of unemployment.
We work with countries to reduce these barriers. In Morocco, a $275 million
operation is addressing women’s career constraints in the national civil protection
system by promoting fairer hiring and promotion processes. Through our regional
Gender Innovation Lab, we are also conducting impact evaluations to find ways to
expand economic opportunities for women. And in Iraq, Jordan, and Lebanon, the
Mashreq Gender Facility is helping strengthen women’s economic participation.

Addressing fragility, conflict, and violence
Across the region, social and economic exclusion continue to be key drivers of conflict and instability. Costly and protracted civil wars have created a large number of
refugees and internally displaced persons, while high levels of inequality between
urban and rural areas have exacerbated these challenges. Under the regional action
plan for fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV), we are supporting the Bank Group’s
broader efforts to address the drivers of fragility and conflict and strengthen resilience, especially for the most vulnerable and marginalized people. Meanwhile,
our regional Gender-Based Violence Action Plan and the Mashreq Displacement
Framework are helping promote social inclusion and support for refugees and displaced persons.
In Lebanon, the $246 million Emergency Cash Transfer COVID-19 Response
Project aims to provide cash transfers to the country’s poorest and most vulnerable
people, while expanding their access to social services. In Yemen, we are partnering
with UN agencies to expand access to critical services—including water, sanitation, transport, and energy—while also boosting women and children’s health and
nutrition. And in Jordan and Lebanon, the Global Concessional Financing Facility
has mobilized $520 million through June 2021 to support Syrian refugees and host
communities.
In Iraq, the $750 million Emergency Operation Development Project has rebuilt
three vital bridges across the Tigris River to help bring economic life back to Mosul.
The project has also rehabilitated more than 400 kilometers of roads and 25 other
bridges throughout Iraq. Reconstruction will begin on two other key bridges, including a major crossing between Mosul and Duhok that is important for trade. Despite
challenges on the ground, we continue to help the government engage citizens
through technology, flexible project design, and innovations in implementation.

46	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

Spotlight
Supporting countries as they move toward a green,
resilient, and inclusive recovery
The World Bank is supporting the region’s countries as they emerge from the
COVID-19 crisis and move toward a green, resilient, and inclusive recovery. Efforts
focus on reducing emissions, boosting resilience in key sectors, transitioning to
more sustainable modes of transport and mobility, and diversifying energy sources.
In Morocco, we analyzed ways to strengthen resilience and inclusion in
recovery efforts. This informed the $250 million Morocco Green Generation
Program-for-Results, which aims to increase job opportunities and generate
­
income for youth in rural areas, as well as improve the efficiency, climate resilience,
and environmental sustainability of the agrifood value chain. The program will work
to expand the use of digital technologies in agriculture and promote climate-smart
practices, as well as strengthen monitoring and evaluation capacity, to help put
Morocco on the path to green growth.
In Egypt, we are helping the government with sound and effective deployment
of electric mobility: we assessed the state of “e-mobility” in the country and identified areas for interventions. Insights from our analysis underpin the $200 million
Greater Cairo Air Pollution Management and Climate Change Project, which aims
to reduce emissions from critical sectors in Cairo and surrounding areas. It focuses
on lowering vehicle emissions, improving solid waste management, and developing
a robust climate impact mitigation program. Efforts include electric buses that are
being deployed and operated by the Cairo Transport Authority. Our advice is also
helping the government build capacity to measure the value of emissions and waste
as well as assess their impact on the economy.
In the West Bank and Gaza, the energy sector program exemplifies how we apply
the multiphase programmatic approach in a fragile context. It aligns with the Bank
Group’s Assistance Strategy for the West Bank and Gaza and with the Palestinian
Energy and Natural Resources Authority’s National Energy Strategy. The program
aims to help the authority diversify energy sources, with a focus on renewables,
while boosting financial and operational sustainability. It will also encourage private
sector participation and increase the share of renewable energy and imports from
neighboring countries.

	

THE REGIONS 	

47

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

TABLE 13 MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)

279

333

396

1.8

1.8

1.7

1,596

3,996

3,163

4.4

3.4

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)

10

7

27

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)

71

74

76

Population growth (annual %)
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)
GDP per capita growth (annual %)

(5.3)

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)

68

70

72

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)

792

1,253

1,471

Extreme poverty (% of population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)

3.5

2.0

7.0

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services

13

6

11

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO
estimate)

24

26

25

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)

36

33

31

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births

45

29

24

Primary completion rate (% of relevant
age group)

81

89

92

1

21

60

Individuals using the internet
(% of population)

90

95

97

Renewable energy consumption
(% of total final energy consumption)

Access to electricity (% of population)

3

3

3

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)

82

86

89

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)

86

91

93

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	The most current data available between 2015 and 2020; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/mena.

48	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

SOUTH ASIA
South Asia is expected to grow by 6.8 percent in both 2021 and 2022, climbing back
from a historic decline of 5.4 percent in 2020 due to COVID-19. South Asia is home
to almost two-thirds of the world’s new extreme poor—those who became poor or
could not escape poverty due to COVID-19. Even before the pandemic, between 120
million and 161 million people—an estimated 7 to 9 percent of the region’s population—were already living in extreme poverty.
South Asia is also highly vulnerable to the impacts of natural disasters and climate change. Social exclusion exacerbates these impacts, as poor, vulnerable, and
marginalized people are disproportionately exposed to hazards and have far fewer
resources to recover.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $10.9 billion in lending to the region for 56 operations
in fiscal 2021, including $3.7 billion in IBRD commitments and $7.1 billion in IDA
commitments. We also delivered 82 advisory services and analytical products to
eight countries, totaling $47 million; these provided technical advice on issues such
as pandemic preparedness and vaccination, debt management, job creation and
female labor force participation, air pollution management, disaster risk management, and climate resilience.
In South Asia, we emphasize promoting inclusive and sustainable growth,
investing in people, and strengthening resilience. To help countries respond to the
COVID-19 crisis, we focused on strengthening health and social protection systems,
delivering cash transfers and food to the most vulnerable, providing education to
children, supporting small and medium businesses, and safeguarding and creating
jobs. We also provided $922 million to support the purchase and rapid deployment
of COVID-19 vaccines in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.

Saving lives and livelihoods and protecting human capital
In the early stages of the pandemic, the Bank moved quickly to mitigate human
­capital losses and ensure that the poorest and most vulnerable people were protected from the worst impacts of the pandemic, with new projects and additional
financing or repurposing of existing projects in social protection, education, and
health. In Maldives, we committed $22 million in additional financing for the Emergency Income Support Project to distribute income support allowances for workers and increase the capacity of social protection programs to respond to future
emergencies. In Pakistan, we provided $200 million to accelerate distance learning options for students, expand access to education through free public Wi-Fi
hotspots, and facilitate training for teachers and administrators, particularly in
disadvantaged communities.

TABLE 14 SOUTH ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2019–21
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY19	 FY20	FY21	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY19	FY20	FY21

IBRD	 4,011	 5,565	3,746	 2,598	3,158	3,665
IDA	
4,849	 6,092	7,127	 4,159	5,235	5,744
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2021: $57.5 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

49

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

Investing in people for an inclusive recovery
We are supporting efforts to strengthen and expand social protection and health
care systems and make them more equitable and inclusive. In India, we provided
$1.2 billion to support reforms that will improve the delivery of social protection programs and expand coverage among vulnerable groups, including informal workers
and migrants. The $1 billion COVID-19 Emergency Response Project is strengthening national and state health systems, supporting prevention and preparedness, and
providing core public health services.
COVID-19 has also highlighted the need for more effective crisis response and
greater household resilience to future shocks. Through the $600 million CrisisResilient Social Protection Program, we are helping Pakistan develop a more
adaptive social protection system that will strengthen resilience among poor and
vul­nerable households during times of crisis. We are also supporting efforts to
coordinate nutrition-sensitive cash transfers for the most vulnerable people and to
implement policy actions that will help bring children back to school. In Sri Lanka,
the COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Project is
bolstering the country’s emergency operations unit and epidemiological diseases
surveillance system; it is also adapting selected hospitals as pandemic response
centers and strengthening the country’s network of scientific laboratories.

Creating jobs and boosting growth for a resilient recovery
With roughly 1.5 million people in South Asia entering the job market every month,
creating jobs is critical for a resilient recovery. In Bangladesh, we are supporting
a series of three development policy credits totaling $750 million that focus on
government reforms to modernize the trade and investment environment, protect workers and build their resilience, and enhance access to jobs for vulnerable
people, especially during the pandemic. We are also providing $300 million to help
more than 1 million people—especially youth, women, and people with disabilities—
develop skills and access the labor market.
In India, we are providing cash and credit to small and medium enterprises—
which employ more than 150 million people—to protect jobs and support more
efficient and inclusive financing for these businesses in the future. In Nepal, we provided $80 million to bolster the agriculture sector by strengthening rural market
linkages and promoting entrepreneurship. Job creation is also central to the new
Country Partnership Framework for Bhutan.
We are also supporting countries as they undertake reforms to improve their fiscal position and private sectors. In Pakistan, we are helping strengthen fiscal and
debt management, the financial viability of the power sector, and the investment

FIGURE 7 SOUTH ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2021
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $10.9 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

Transportation

Social Protection

Public Administration
Information and
Communications Technologies

50	

13%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

6%

2%

17%

15%

Education

8% Energy and Extractives
4%

17%

9%
1%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

8%

Financial Sector
Health

Industry, Trade, and Services

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

climate. In Nepal, a $200 million operation is helping stabilize the financial sector,
develop diverse financial solutions, and increase access to financial services for
small and medium enterprises.

Tackling climate risks for a green recovery
South Asia is highly vulnerable to climate-related hazards. About 800 million people—44 percent of the region’s population—live in areas that will become moderate
or severe climate hotspots by 2050 unless drastic action is taken. To address this
urgent challenge, in line with the Bank Group’s new Climate Change Action Plan, we
are accelerating action toward a greener, low-carbon, and climate-resilient future
through five major priorities: energy transition, food and agricultural systems, urban
development, climate-adapted social protection systems and infrastructure, and
a financial system and fiscal policies that take into account climate-related risks
and opportunities.
We are helping countries implement renewable energy solutions and mobilize
private sector investment. In Pakistan, a $550 million project is supporting the
country’s transition to renewable energy resources to reduce reliance on fossil fuel
imports and lower the costs of electricity production. In Maldives, we mobilized
$42 million for solar energy solutions to reduce the country’s use of fossil fuels.

Promoting regional integration and cooperation
South Asia is one of the world’s least economically integrated regions. We work
with countries to develop cross-border solutions to shared challenges, strengthen
regional institutions, improve infrastructure and connectivity, advance trade policy,
and build resilience to climate change and disasters. Our Connecting to Thrive report
analyzes the barriers to regional transport integration. It finds that Bangladesh and
India could increase their GDP by nearly 17 percent and 8 percent, respectively, if
they establish better transport connectivity.
South Asia has the world’s highest levels of open dumping of plastic and waste.
In partnership with the South Asia Cooperative Environment Programme and Parley
for the Oceans, we are supporting the Plastic-Free Rivers and Seas for South Asia
Project, which seeks to curb marine plastic pollution and ramp up innovations to
reinvent plastic use and production.

	

THE REGIONS 	

51

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

Spotlight
Bangladesh: Addressing the needs of the Rohingya and
host communities
Since 2017, Bangladesh has provided shelter to more than a million Rohingya
people who have fled violence in Myanmar. The influx has placed enormous pressure on local infrastructure and stretched service delivery in Cox’s Bazar, one of
the poorest districts in Bangladesh. We continue to help the government provide
assistance, in coordination with humanitarian agencies, development partners, and
nongovernmental organizations. We have mobilized $590 million in grant resources
for Bangladesh—including $492 million from the IDA18 Regional Sub-Window for
Refugees and Host Communities as well as support from Canada—for five projects
to address the needs of Rohingya, until their safe, voluntary, and dignified return
to Myanmar, and host communities, including health, education, social safety nets,
and basic service delivery. Our research also helps inform policy dialogue, support
development priorities, and apply lessons learned. 
With $50 million in additional financing to a health sector support project, we
are providing health and nutrition services for women and children in the Rohingya
camps, as well as reproductive care and family planning support. The project has
been adjusted to help address COVID-19 in the camps; it equipped isolation and
treatment units with laboratories, radiological facilities, and oxygen supply, and provided more than 200 beds for COVID-19 patients, including 50 for pregnant women.
A separate $150 million intervention is expanding access to health, nutrition, and
family planning and helping prevent gender-based violence for nearly 4 million people, including the Rohingyas and host communities; in the camps, this supports
psychosocial counseling, immunization coverage, tuberculosis screening and treatment, and nutrition services.
A $25 million education operation provides learning and psychosocial support
to 350,000 Rohingya children and youth. Services have continued amid COVID-19
lockdowns through training on home-based learning for parents and caregivers. The
project has also helped youths in host communities access vocational training. And
through the national safety net program, a $100 million grant is providing livelihoods
and income support to 40,000 poor and vulnerable households in host communities while scaling up social protection coverage for 85,000 Rohingya households.
In addition, grants totaling $265 million are helping enhance infrastructure and
improve community resilience. Efforts will reach more than 780,000 people, including 140,000 from host communities. About 366,000 people will be able to access
better water sources and sanitation thanks to infrastructure upgrades and installation of household and community toilets in Cox’s Bazar. The project will also build
multipurpose disaster shelters, climate-resilient evacuation roads, and solar street
lights, as well as strengthen the government’s capacity to respond to emergencies.
52	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

TABLE 15 SOUTH ASIA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)
Population growth (annual %)
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)
GDP per capita growth (annual %)
Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)

1,391

1,639

1.9

1.4

1,857
1.1

445

1,147

1,821

2.1

6.2

(7.6)

577 b

425

262

64

68

71

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)

62

66

68

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)

1,076

1,884

2,770

26.0

15.2

Extreme poverty (% of population below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)

40.0 b

Debt services as a proportion of exports
of goods and services

15

3

5

Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (%) (modeled ILO
estimate)

36

33

31

Vulnerable employment, total (% of total
employment) (modeled ILO estimate)

80

78

69

Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births

93

62

40

Primary completion rate (% of relevant
age group)

69

87

90

0

7

20

Individuals using the internet
(% of population)
Access to electricity (% of population)

57

73

94

Renewable energy consumption
(% of total final energy consumption)

53

42

38

People using at least basic sanitation
services (% of population)

20

43

59

People using at least basic drinking water
services (% of population)

80

87

92

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	The most current data available between 2014 and 2020; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/sar.

	

THE REGIONS 	

53

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

54	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

Supporting Countries’ Crisis
Response and Recovery
The World Bank helps countries achieve progress toward their development goals and protect hard-earned gains through a unique com­bination of
financing, expertise, and convening power. Our work is strengthened by our knowledge, which helps countries develop informed solutions to their most pressing
development challenges. These include our reimbursable advisory services, which
member countries of all income levels can request, as can nongovernment and
nonprofit organizations and other multilateral institutions. We curate and disseminate development data to monitor progress toward our goals, and we work to
reduce gaps in the availability of core data that can inform evidence-based policy
making and reforms. Our experience on the ground spans countries, regions, and
sectors, allowing us to apply lessons learned and best practices to our work around
the world. And our role as a trusted partner and broker of global knowledge positions us to lead on the global development agenda.
Our response to the COVID-19 pandemic illustrates how we harness these
strengths to support countries in times of crisis. Our knowledge products have
assessed the wide-ranging impacts of the pandemic—such as the increase in
extreme poverty, the disproportionate effects on women, rising food insecurity, and
diminished remittance flows—to offer actionable policy insights. We convened stakeholders to address the most urgent issues arising from the pandemic, such as debt
sustainability, learning losses, social protection, and countries’ health needs—this
includes $4.4 billion in financing and technical assistance in fiscal 2021 to help 53
countries procure and distribute vaccines, tests, and treatments. And we have begun
laying the foundation for long-term recovery, providing informed approaches to help
countries build more sustainable cities, invest in resilient infrastructure, prepare for
natural disasters, and adapt to a rapidly changing climate.
This work is guided by the four pillars of the Bank Group’s COVID-19 crisis
response approach: saving lives; protecting the poor and most vulnerable; ensuring sustainable business growth and job creation; and strengthening policies,
institutions, and investments for rebuilding better. By leveraging our comparative advantages—country depth and global breadth, a range of flexible financing
mechanisms, deep multisector expertise, and wide-reaching convening power—we
are mounting an exceptional and unprecedented response to the pandemic to
help countries navigate their way out of crisis toward green, resilient, and inclusive
development.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

55

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

Tracking the pandemic’s impact on the poor
In a year like no other, our focus remained squarely on confronting the
impact of COVID-19 on the world’s poorest people, measuring the changes
brought about by this extraordinary event, and emphasizing the risks
posed by the downturn, including higher levels of poverty and inequality.
Soon after the onset of the pandemic, the Bank began conducting high-frequency phone surveys to gauge its effects and inform policy
making. This effort has expanded to more than 100 countries, with many
results available in a harmonized dashboard to enable cross-country comparisons. The results show that the impacts have been felt in all countries
but are hardest on the poor and vulnerable. Women, young people, and
less educated workers—groups that were already at a disadvantage in the
labor market—were more likely to lose their job in the short term. Relative
to men, women were 11 percentage points more likely to have lost their job;
a similar gap was found between college-educated workers and those with
a primary school education or less. Young and older workers also bore the
brunt of the pandemic’s impact on jobs.
Our flagship report, Poverty and Shared Prosperity 2020: Reversals of
Fortune, found that extreme poverty increased globally for the first time in
two decades—and that COVID-19, combined with the ongoing effects of climate change and conflict, would impede progress toward ending poverty.
Harnessing fresh data from front-line surveys and economic simulations,
the report showed that pandemic-related job losses and deprivation worldwide have hit already poor and vulnerable people hard, while also creating
millions of “new poor”—people who are now impoverished because of the
COVID-19 outbreak, and who are more likely to be urban, better educated,
and work in the informal economy. The report provides recommendations
for a complementary two-track approach: responding effectively to the
urgent crisis in the short run while continuing to focus on foundational
development problems, including conflict and climate change.

56	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

Saving lives
Responding to an unprecedented global
health crisis
Since the onset of the pandemic, we have been working to
save lives and boost global recovery. In fiscal 2021, we built
on our COVID-19 response—which has reached over 100 countries—and have made available $20 billion over 24 months to help
poor countries purchase and distribute vaccines, tests, and treatments, as well as strengthen health systems. We approved the first Bank-financed
operation to support vaccine rollout in January 2021—by the end of fiscal 2021, we
approved more than $4.4 billion for 53 countries. This includes support for vaccine
cold chains, training for health workers, better data and information systems, and
outreach campaigns to promote vaccine acceptance.
We are working with a broad range of global partners—including the Coalition
for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, Gavi, the Global Fund, UNICEF, and the
WHO—to ensure fair access to COVID-19 vaccines and help developing countries
prepare for vaccine deployment. We are supporting multilateral efforts—such as
the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A) and COVAX, its vaccine pillar—to
accelerate development, production, and fair access to COVID-19 tests, treatments,
and vaccines. And in June 2021, the Bank Group convened a task force with the IMF,
WHO, and WTO to advance delivery of COVID-19 vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics to developing countries. These efforts include a global database and country dashboards to monitor gaps and support faster and more targeted progress.
Our Assessing Country Readiness for COVID-19 Vaccines report, carried out
jointly with governments and partner organizations, detailed key findings from
vaccine readiness assessments in over 140 low- and middle-income countries.
The pandemic has also disrupted delivery of essential health services, threatening to reverse years of gains in health and human capital outcomes. Many noncommunicable and preventable diseases have gone untreated amid a surge in
demand for critical care and a shortage of hospital beds, tests, medical equipment, and personal protective equipment. Yet strong primary health care services
are essential to prevent, detect, and manage diseases, as well as promote health.
A new World Bank report, Walking the Talk: Reimagining Primary Health Care after
COVID-19, shows that well-designed primary health care can help flatten the curve
during a health crisis like COVID-19 through surveillance, testing and contract tracing, community outreach, and vaccine coverage. To ensure that quality and affordable health services reach everyone—regardless of their ability to pay—we help
countries work toward universal health coverage. This can reduce the financial risk
associated with ill health and increase equity. We also help countries cope with aging
populations and a growing burden of non-communicable diseases.
We are also helping countries prevent pandemics by strengthening veterinary
and human health systems, as well as the connections between them. Better pandemic preparedness, including surveillance and monitoring, is essential to overcome COVID-19 and prepare for future disease outbreaks. Learning from the 2014
and 2015 Ebola outbreaks in West Africa, we have expanded IDA financing for the
Regional Disease Surveillance Systems Enhancement Program in West and Central
Africa to enhance preparedness. We are also supporting other regional centers of
excellence, such as the Africa Centers for Disease Control, the East Africa Public
Health Laboratory Networking Project, and the West African Health Organization.
The Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Program, set up in fiscal 2021, complements our efforts and provides further resources to respond to
COVID-19 and other health emergencies as well as help countries better prepare for
disease outbreaks. The program provides upstream, catalytic, and rapid financing

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

57

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

Understanding COVID-19 through data and research
Our coronavirus open data website provides streamlined, open access to
relevant COVID-19 data, including a dashboard that offers real-time
global data alongside relevant indicators, such as health system capacity
and access to basic handwashing facilities. Reflecting our commitment
to open data, the site allows users, including developers, to access the
data through APIs.
In addition, our research looks at the costs of the COVID-19
pandemic, as well as the policies that aim to shield people from its
worst impacts. It looks at the unprecedented effects on health outcomes,
extreme poverty, businesses, and inequality. We also analyze policies
that have helped counteract the worst impacts, including social protection programs and targeted support to the financial sector to help
sustain businesses.

to the most vulnerable countries, some of which cannot access traditional Bank
financing. As of June 2021 the program had awarded 10 grants for health emergency
preparedness and 19 for health emergency response, amounting to $86 million.
The Global Financing Facility (GFF) is a global partnership housed at the Bank
that seeks to ensure that all women, children, and adolescents can survive and
thrive—these groups have been disproportionately affected by the health impacts
of the pandemic. Across the GFF’s 36 partner countries, we have seen up to a 25
percent drop in the coverage of life-saving health interventions in areas such as
childhood vaccinations, sexual and reproductive health, and maternal care. The
GFF is helping countries monitor disruptions, strengthen supply chains for essential medicines and tools, support community health workers, and scale up innovations in service delivery and cash transfer programs. In Liberia, the GFF adapted its
existing grant to strengthen the capacity of frontline health workers, address low
demand for health care services, and adjust existing programs to address needs
arising from COVID-19. The GFF is also helping ensure that gender equity is part of
inclusive recovery efforts.

Protecting human capital gains and improving outcomes
Human capital is the health, knowledge, capabilities, skills, and resilience that people accumulate throughout their life to achieve their potential. The Human Capital
Project (HCP) works across sectors to improve outcomes so that every child grows
up well nourished and ready to learn, attains real learning in school, and enters the
job market as a healthy, skilled, and productive adult. We are pursuing these goals
through a combination of data, measurement, analytics, and robust country and
global engagement.
But the COVID-19 crisis threatens a decade of human capital gains. In 2020,
about 100 million more people were pushed into extreme poverty; this generation of
children could lose up to $10 trillion in lifetime earnings. The crisis underscores the
urgency of investing in human development, including achieving quality universal
health coverage and pandemic preparedness, establishing inclusive education that
allows for remote learning, ensuring equity for women and girls, expanding social
protection coverage, promoting productivity through all stages of life, and developing adaptable programs and policies. People with good health and nutrition, education, savings, and safety nets can better withstand shocks.

58	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

The 2020 update of the Human Capital Index provides a baseline of human capital outcomes right up to the pandemic. It includes a new human capital utilization
measurement that links endowments to productivity. Further progress includes the
launch of a Healthy Longevity Initiative to enhance outcomes among the aging population. The index also updates service delivery indicators that measure access to
and quality of health and education services; these can help countries identify gaps,
implement policies, and accelerate progress, including at the subnational level.
In addition, the Bank has launched multisectoral analytical tools, such as Human
Capital Reviews and Human Capital Public Expenditure and Institutional Reviews,
to help governments track related investments and outcomes. We also help governments prioritize human capital expenditures; in April 2021, our approach paper,
Investing in Human Capital for a Resilient Recovery: The Role of Public Finance, outlined adequate, efficient, and sustainable spending amid fiscal tightening.
Our partnerships foster collaboration and knowledge sharing for better human
capital outcomes. The HCP Country Focal Point Network enables government officials around the world to share experiences and lessons learned. We also hosted
conclaves with ministers of finance during the World Bank–IMF Annual and Spring
Meetings, with representation from 81 countries across income levels. In March
2021, the first Human Capital Project Global Forum brought together senior government officials from 69 countries to discuss investing in people during the pandemic,
reimagining service delivery, and mobilizing finance to accelerate recovery. We also
engage with global champions and other key stakeholders to drive action on human
capital priorities. Through our Human Capital Umbrella financing mechanism, we
partner to encourage catalytic and multisectoral initiatives for better outcomes.
Putting people at the heart of development will help countries restore and
bolster human capital progress and achieve green, resilient, and inclusive development. Human capital is a special theme for the IDA20 replenishment cycle to
support poor countries’ recovery from COVID-19. It is also central to our systemic
country diagnostics and country partnership frameworks. We have rolled out
regional human capital plans for Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and North
Africa, and South Asia to support progress in multiple sectors.

Ensuring water security for all
Water insecurity arises from gaps in access to water supply and sanitation, rapid
urbanization and population growth, pollution, climate impacts, and water-intensive
growth patterns. The pandemic has only further highlighted the importance of
safely managed water, sanitation, and hygiene services in protecting public health.
The Bank is working with countries and partners to respond urgently to
COVID-19, support economic recovery, and rebuild better, while also promoting
­sustainable water use for the long run. With over $26 billion in investments, spanning 162 projects, the Bank’s vision is to create a water-secure world for all and
promote sustainable growth for people and the planet. We are working to improve
resource management, facilitate universal access to water and sanitation, and optimize water use in agriculture. We are also supporting systems
that can better withstand climate extremes and address
fragility in water-stressed countries, thus strengthening
resilience. In Vietnam, a rural water and sanitation program provided access for nearly 2 million people. In
Brazil, our support to the world’s largest public utility is expanding access to peri-urban areas in São
Paulo. In Nigeria, we are helping improve technology,
institutions, and value chains to expand irrigation for 1
million farmers. In Kosovo, our support to the country’s
comprehensive water security program, which includes

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

59

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

The 2020 Atlas of Sustainable Development Goals is the
third edition of the series, which explores various paths to achieving progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It guides readers
through the goals using interactive storytelling and data visuali­zations,
highlights selected targets and trends for each goal, and sheds light on
how some of the goals are measured. This year’s edition also illustrates
the impact of the COVID-19 crisis, using new projection data compiled
by the Bank, phone surveys, impact studies, and anecdotal evidence. It
looks at the effect of the pandemic on global poverty and provides potential scenarios between now and 2030. It also highlights the impact of
the pandemic on the most vulnerable people, education outcomes, and
remittance flows.

an emergency COVID-19 component, addresses infrastructure, institutions, and
long-term economic resilience.
The world is facing an acute water crisis, and demand for fresh water frequently
exceeds supply. Water variability—from droughts to floods—is becoming more frequent, exacerbated by climate change. The Bank is transforming approaches to
water security by improving infrastructure, promoting nature-based solutions for
critical services, and empowering institutions. In Kenya, we are helping develop
river basin plans, building capacity for issuing water permits, improving irrigation
and flood protection infrastructure, setting up bulk water storage, and increasing
the efficiency of the downstream utility. In Argentina, our work through the Matanza
Riachuelo River Cleanup Project is providing about 6 million people with access to
sewerage and wastewater treatment.
The Global Water Security and Sanitation Partnership, a multidonor trust fund
launched in 2017, helps countries build capacity and strengthen the institutions and
infrastructure they need to supply current and future generations with sufficient
water, food, and energy. The 2030 Water Resources Group, a public, private, and civil
society partnership, is establishing a global task force to finance the water sector,
with a focus on building resilient utilities, using new technologies for better water
management, and enabling service providers to deliver services more efficiently as
well as adapt in the face of crises.

Protecting food security and promoting sustainable food systems
Hunger has been rising globally since 2014, driven by conflict, climate change, diseases, and pest outbreaks. The economic impacts of COVID-19 and measures to
control the pandemic, as well as rising global food prices, have made food even more

60	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

unaffordable for the world’s poorest people. In 2020, between 720 and 811 million
people faced hunger—as many as 161 million more people than in 2019—and more
than 2 billion people did not have access to safe, nutritious, and sufficient food.
In fiscal 2021, we worked with partners to address growing food insecurity by
closely monitoring food prices and export restrictions and advocating for more
financing and policy measures to strengthen food and nutrition security. We convened roundtables with finance and development ministers at the Annual and
Spring Meetings and raised awareness of overlapping crises that are affecting livelihoods, nutrition, natural resources, and political stability.
Adaptable safety net and food distribution programs provide immediate relief
for vulnerable families, while investments in more resilient supply chains offer hope
for the long term. In Angola, we helped farmer cooperatives and small agricultural
enterprises expand and improve their operations to meet the needs of local communities. In Guatemala, we are supporting small and medium agriculture enterprises
with emergency relief and improving their production processes for the long term,
with investments in better post-harvest practices and storage to reduce food loss.
In Haiti, we mobilized emergency financing to help farmers purchase seeds, fertilizer, and other inputs to safeguard production for the next two growing seasons. In
India, we co-financed self-help groups that ran community kitchens and provided
food and support to vulnerable communities. In Nigeria, we are supporting greater
access to social transfers, better food security for poor and vulnerable households,
and stronger links between farmers and markets to prevent disruptions and job
losses in agricultural supply chains.
We work with governments to build robust and sustainable food systems that
can deliver better health outcomes, promote more resilient and sustainable agricultural growth, support nutrition, and be more resilient to climate change. This
includes investing in infrastructure to boost efficiency and sustainability throughout
the food supply chain and encouraging countries to adopt policies that will improve
the long-term outlook of their food systems. We are helping countries like India and
Kenya finance digital platforms that farmers can use to access markets, reduce
waste, and adopt climate-smart practices. We are also encouraging countries to
adopt a “One Health” approach that recognizes the connection between human,
animal, and planetary health and promotes investments in preparedness and prevention of zoonotic diseases.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

61

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

Protecting the poorest and
most vulnerable people
Addressing the global learning crisis
and preventing learning losses
Even before the pandemic, the world was experi­
encing a learning crisis, with nearly 260 million children and youth out of school. In developing countries,
53 percent of all 10-year-old children could not read and
understand a simple text, an indicator we define as learning poverty. The extended
school closures and economic downturn amid COVID-19 have compounded this
crisis. At the peak of school closures in April 2020, 94 percent of students were out
of school. We estimate that the learning poverty rate in low- and middle-income
countries could now rise to 63 percent and that children affected by learning losses
stand to lose $16 trillion in lifetime earnings—almost 10 percent of global GDP—as
a result of the pandemic.
Our support to countries covers the entire learning cycle, to help shape resilient,
equitable, and inclusive education systems that ensure learning happens for everyone, including during COVID-19. We are the largest source of external financing for
education in developing countries; in fiscal 2021, we committed $6.3 billion across
60 new education projects, including $697 million in Global Partnership for Education (GPE) grants and $47 million for other trust funds. We continue to be the largest
implementing agency of GPE grants to low-income countries, managing 52 percent
of its total grant portfolio. Overall, the Bank has over $23 billion in our education
portfolio.
We are implementing a two-prong approach: on one hand, helping countries
return students to school and implement learning recovery programs, and on the
other, rebuilding systems to be more effective, resilient, and equitable. In India, a
$500 million project is investing in remote learning, reducing dropouts, providing
remedial instruction, and offering technology-enabled psychosocial support for
teachers, students, and families. The government is also enhancing teachers’ digital
access to subject matter and pedagogical training. The project will reach around
250 million school-age children and over 10 million teachers. In Edo State, Nigeria,
the Bank is providing $75 million to deliver remote learning through interactive radio
lessons, digital self-study activity packets, storybooks for independent reading,
mobile interactive quizzes, and lesson plans for parents, reaching 20,000 students
in 930 primary schools.
We generate and disseminate evidence-based guidance and advice to countries
on topics such as reopening schools, assessing remote learning solutions, bringing reading materials to homes, ensuring professional development for teachers,
and strengthening the capacity of tertiary education and technical and vocational
schools. We work with many bilateral and multilateral partners and international
foundations, including UNICEF, UNESCO, the UK government, USAID, the Global
Partnership for Education, OECD, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and Harvard,
Oxford, and Johns Hopkins universities. Efforts include a new Accelerator Program
we launched in November 2020 to ensure that participating countries can improve
foundational skills at scale over the next three to five years.

Building stronger social protection systems for a more resilient future
Effective social protection systems are central to reducing poverty, enabling human
capital investments, and laying the foundation for inclusive and equitable societies. Yet in much of the world, especially developing countries, major gaps in coverage remain. Before the pandemic, only 45 percent of the world’s population were

62	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

covered by some form of social protection—in the poorest countries, only one in five
poor people had access to social safety nets.
COVID-19 has further exposed these gaps and underscored the need for
robust systems in times of crisis. To address the impacts of the pandemic, we
are scaling up safety net operations through countries’ existing social protection systems. In fiscal 2021, our social protection projects provided $8.6 billion
in new financing to 38 countries, including 13 countries facing conflict and fragility, benefiting nearly 1 billion people worldwide. Between April 2020 and June
2021, we also reallocated $1.7 billion from existing projects, benefiting almost
45 million people. In Ghana, we are supporting cash transfers that will provide a
one-time payment to 350,000 households as they cope with economic hardships
arising from COVID-19. In Pakistan, $25 million will provide emergency cash transfers for up to 4 million people under the national safety net.
In 69 countries, we have assessed over 130 pension reform measures for ways
to strengthen social insurance and pensions. This includes potential compensatory
measures to address deficits in pension systems and restore retirement savings
lost due to the pandemic.
To prepare for future crises and ensure a resilient recovery, countries need
to invest in social protection systems that are shock-responsive and adaptive. Our Adaptive Social Protection: Building Resilience to Shocks report shows
that adaptive programs can build resilience for poor and vulnerable families
by boosting their capacity to prepare for, cope with, and adapt to shocks, including
climate-related risks and fragile or conflict-affected situations.
The current crisis further reinforces the case for fundamental reform of safety
net programs, as billions of informal workers struggle to get the coverage they need.
The Bank calls for a decisive shift toward financing models based on general taxation, instead of contributory systems that are largely limited to formal sector workers. We also support workers in the informal sector by helping them access services,
training opportunities, microfinance, self-employment, and public works programs.
In Bangladesh, the Recovery and Advancement of Informal Sector Employment
Project will help about 175,000 poor urban youths and low-income microentrepreneurs become more employable and productive.
As the world grapples with the pandemic, our State of Economic Inclusion Report
2021 points to paths out of poverty for the poorest and most vulnerable people. With
this report, the Partnership for Economic Inclusion, housed at the World Bank, presented the first-ever systematic review of economic inclusion programs globally. It
found efforts have surged worldwide as governments have scaled up programs that
focus on social protection, livelihoods, jobs, and financial inclusion. In 75 countries,
programs are on the rise, reaching about 20 million households and nearly 92 million individuals.

Closing gender gaps and empowering women
Closing gender gaps and empowering women can help set
countries on a sustainable path toward more diversified
economies, higher levels of productivity, and better prospects for the next generation. The Bank Group’s Gender
Equality Strategy for 2016–23 seeks to close gaps
between men and women across four key pillars:
human endowments (health, education, and social
protection), jobs, assets, and voice and agency.
Yet critical gaps remain. Major challenges—ranging
from climate change, forced migration, and pandemics
to decelerating investment growth and rising poverty

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

63

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

rates—affect boys, girls, men, and women differently, largely due to discriminatory
laws and policies, as well as social norms about economic roles and responsibilities.
The COVID-19 pandemic is exacerbating these risks and threatening gains in gender equality. It has brought disruptions in key health services, including maternal
and reproductive health; a faster rate of job loss for women than men; more severe
impacts on small businesses owned and led by women; and sharp increases in
gender-based violence (GBV). The pandemic also compounds risks from inadequate social safety nets and gender gaps in access to digital technologies. And
because women are overrepresented in the health sector and more likely to be caregivers, they are also under greater stress and at more risk of exposure to the virus.
The World Bank is helping countries address the health, social, and economic
impacts of the crisis—especially those that disproportionately affect women and
girls—and make their economies more inclusive and resilient as they rebuild. In
Zambia, we are ensuring the continuity of reproductive, maternal, newborn, child,
and adolescent health and nutrition services. In Cambodia, we are improving the
availability of services that are critical to preventing mortality among women; this
includes better access to family planning, reduction of teen pregnancies, and effective screening and treatment for cervical cancer.
We are helping women return to economic activity, including through cash-forwork programs, expanded child care support, agricultural inputs, and better access
to credit and liquidity for women-led firms. In Mauritania, Mozambique, and Togo,
we are providing cash transfers through mobile payments to address lower incomes
and bank account ownership among women. In Nepal, we are promoting entre­
preneurial business development skills for women and providing them with better
farm equipment.
We work to prevent and respond to GBV by supporting remote counseling
services, training health workers to identify and refer cases, improving case registration, facilitating communication campaigns, and strengthening data collection and referral mechanisms. In Kenya, we are helping health care providers
identify the risks and health consequences of GBV and offer frontline support and
medical treatment.
To support evidence-based policy actions, we collect and curate data through
the Gender Data Portal, which provides open access to sex-disaggregated data for
over 600 indicators that cover demographics, education, health, access to economic opportunities, public life, and decision making. Gender Innovation Labs in
nearly all developing regions also conduct rigorous impact evaluations on innovative approaches to closing gender gaps.

World Development Report 2021: Data
for Better Lives is the first edition of the series
focused solely on the role of data for development.
It explores the tremendous potential of the changing
data landscape to improve the lives of poor people,
while also acknowledging that data misuse can harm
individuals, businesses, governments, and societies.
The report calls for a new social contract that enables
the use and reuse of data to create economic and
social value, ensure equitable access to data, and
foster trust that data will not be misused.

64	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Promoting social inclusion
Social sustainability and inclusion programs have played a critical role in supporting the most vulnerable people and marginalized groups during the COVID-19
crisis. These programs focus on migrants, persons with disabilities, women, the
elderly, sexual and gender minorities, Indigenous Peoples, and other racial and
­ethnic minorities, who often lack essential services and have been heavily affected
by the pandemic.
Community-led approaches are playing a critical role in our response to the
crisis. We are supporting a regional community development program in Ethiopia
that has reached over 730,000 people, more than half of whom are women. About
83,000 children can now access primary schools, more than 368,000 people can
access health centers, and 135,000 people have better access to safe water. Livelihood support is providing more income for about 150,000 people, and 23,000 have
access to better energy sources. We are also applying an inclusive delivery approach
in our efforts to promote women’s economic empowerment. In Nigeria, the Bank
is working closely with communities to bolster women’s livelihoods in a groundbreaking initiative that aims to remove social and other barriers to gender parity,
including by linking women-run businesses to the marketplace.
Working with our network of community leaders, we initiated high-frequency
monitoring initiatives to better track the impact of COVID-19 on persons with disabilities, poor women, and ethnic minorities. In the Kyrgyz Republic, we helped build
a database of nearly 4,000 respondents—representing community leaders from
every region in the country—who are polled monthly to gather insights into community conditions. We are also using our community engagements to disseminate
information on how to manage the pandemic. In Ghana, we are working with communities to provide key information about COVID-19 at the national, regional, and
district levels. Recent surveys showed that 83 percent of Ghanaians felt they had
adequate information about the pandemic and high trust in information originating
from the government.
We are deploying new digital citizen engagement techniques to reach out to
communities. In Afghanistan, the Citizen’s Charter Program polled over 12,000
community development councils through an interactive voice response phone
survey in Pashto and Dari. Through the Environmental and Social Framework, we
are also promoting the use of electronic platforms to engage stakeholders and manage risks. In Maldives, we are supporting a project that provides emergency income

Survey of national statistical offices: This past year, the
World Bank partnered with the UN to conduct a global online survey to
assess the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on national statistical offices
and identify needs for financial and technical support. More than 120
countries participated. The first round of results, in June 2020, highlighted the heavy impact of the crisis. The second round, in August 2020
identified the need for better coordination and technical assistance to
avoid further exacerbating global data inequalities. The third round, in
October 2020, gave a glimpse of the long-term impacts of the pandemic
on these offices’ operations. The fourth round, in May 2021, focused on
the technology challenges, funding, and costs of statistical operations,
as well as difficulties in collecting data on specific groups. More than a
year into the pandemic, the impacts on national statistical offices have
been more extensive than expected, despite improvements in collecting
data and upgrading technology.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

65

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

support to workers affected by the economic impacts of COVID-19. The project
deployed a grievance redress mechanism that processed nearly 23,000 submissions through a national call center and web-based platforms—helping ensure
more inclusive delivery of financial support.
Our approach to social sustainability emphasizes the need to build resilience
and social cohesion, especially for societies and communities affected by fragility
or social unrest. In Iraq, Jordan, and Lebanon, we are helping develop a comprehensive strategy to manage the challenges emerging from a large influx of displaced
persons. In the Philippines, we are helping stakeholders in Mindanao transition to
peace by strengthening the capacity of local authorities and communities to undertake responsive and accountable local development.

Supporting countries affected by fragility, conflict, and violence
Even before the pandemic, it was estimated that up to two-thirds of the world’s
extreme poor would be concentrated in countries affected by fragility, conflict, and
violence (FCV) by 2030. In 2020, COVID-19 pushed roughly 18 million more people
in fragile and conflict-affected settings into extreme poverty and doubled the number of food-insecure people to 270 million globally. The world also continues to face
the largest forced displacement crisis ever, with more than 82 million people fleeing
conflict and violence. In some countries, the pandemic may further deepen fragility,
impeding recovery efforts.
The Bank Group has supported over 30 fragile and conflict-affected countries
in their response to COVID-19. We aim to address the pandemic’s health, economic
and social impacts; strengthen resilience, especially for vulnerable and marginalized populations; and help countries tackle the underlying drivers of fragility that
pose long-term risks to development—all in line with our FCV strategy, released in
February 2020. We help governments address drivers of fragility and risks—such as
climate change, demographic shocks, gender inequality, discrimination, economic
and social exclusion, and perceptions of grievances and injustice—and we adapt to
remain engaged in the most challenging settings.
We continued to increase our support to countries affected by FCV under IDA19,
which includes $26 billion in financing to help countries prevent conflict escalation,
strengthen resilience, create development opportunities for refugees and host communities, and escape fragility over the long term. IDA19 created an envelope to provide tailored support and incentives to IDA countries that face FCV risks, enhancing
our ability to respond rapidly to dynamic situations and supporting a focus on prevention. Hence we can better help countries that are at risk of large-scale conflict,
applying preventive approaches across portfolios. We can also remain engaged in
countries with high-intensity conflict and extremely limited government capacity, as
well as support countries emerging from conflict or crisis. In addition, we are scaling up regional approaches to fragility, strengthening the conflict-sensitivity of our
country approaches, supporting capacity building and implementation, and boosting crisis preparedness to address food insecurity and pandemic threats. In fiscal
2021, the Bank approved $14.0 billion in IDA19 commitments for countries affected
by FCV. This includes usage from the FCV envelope as well as IDA windows, including the Window for Host Communities and Refugees, the Crisis Response Window
(including early response financing for food security), the Scale-Up Window, and
regional windows. The IDA20 replenishment will continue to make FCV a priority.
Most of the world’s nearly 26 million refugees are hosted by developing countries, and three-quarters of them remain displaced after five years. IDA19 includes
a $2.2 billion Window for Host Communities and Refugees, from which the Bank
used $600 million in financing for 11 projects in seven countries in fiscal 2021. We
expect to fully use all remaining IDA19 resources under this window by the end of
fiscal 2022. The IDA19 Crisis Response Window also helps the poorest countries

66	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

manage crises and create opportunities that help mitigate large refugee flows.
We are applying regional approaches in areas acutely affected by forced displacement, including the Sahel, the Lake Chad region, and the Horn of Africa.
The Global Concessional Financing Facility (GCFF) provides assistance to
middle-income countries that host large numbers of refugees. Since 2016, it has
provided more than $671 million in grants to unlock almost $5 billion in concessional financing. This is helping Jordan and Lebanon address the inflow of Syrian
refugees as well as helping Colombia and Ecuador meet the needs of more than 1
million displaced Venezuelans and their host communities. It also provides a platform for coordination among multilateral development banks, the UN, and participating countries.
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is a critical partner in delivering on the FCV strategy to address the needs of the forcibly displaced and their host
communities; it is also involved in all work that the GCFF supports. In Jordan, we
are partnering to help the government issue work permits to Syrian refugees, which
expand their access to work opportunities in the formal sector amid the downturn
spurred by COVID-19. The World Bank and UNHCR are also supporting the country’s vaccine strategy, which includes refugee populations.
Global food insecurity has reached unprecedented levels, with countries affected
by FCV especially at risk. Through the IDA19 Crisis Response Window’s Early
Response Financing mechanism, we are supporting countries’ early responses to
food security crises by scaling up emergency safety nets as well as support for livelihoods. In Yemen, the effort is being designed in collaboration with the Food and
Agriculture Organization to reach 150,000 households in the most vulnerable areas.
In line with the FCV strategy, the Bank Group is deepening cooperation with
humanitarian, development, peace building, security, and private sector organizations to leverage our complementary mandates and strengthen our impact on the
ground. These partnerships have been essential to our COVID-19 response. In Niger,
we are working with the World Food Programme, UNICEF, and UNHCR to meet the
needs of vulnerable populations and strengthen national social protection systems.
And through inclusive, community-driven approaches, we are better able to operate in remote or conflict-affected environments. In Afghanistan, we have used this
approach to improve access to clean water, electricity, roads, irrigation, health care,
and education to communities across the country. We also redeployed $100 million
from an existing project to provide food and cash assistance for the most vulnerable
people as part of our broader COVID-19 response in the country.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

67

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

Supporting sustainable business growth and job creation
Creating more and better jobs to reduce poverty
In recent years, rising labor incomes have accounted for about 40 percent of poverty reduction world-wide. However, much of the developing world faces a daunting
jobs challenge. Over 90 percent of workers in low-income countries remain in
low-quality and low-productivity jobs. The COVID-19 pandemic has further exacerbated these challenges, disrupting workers, labor markets, and livelihoods, and has
underlined the urgency of tackling the jobs crisis.
Governments in developing countries need to create better jobs that boost productivity and earnings; they also need to improve access to jobs for disadvantaged
groups. To help countries achieve these goals, we finance investments for better
jobs outcomes, conduct jobs diagnostics to inform development strategies, and
support global knowledge sharing and research for informed solutions.
In fiscal 2021, the Bank supported 557 jobs-related projects, with investments
of about $78 billion. In Pakistan, the Punjab Skills Development Project enhances
youth employability through policy reform and emphasis on demand-driven skills.
In Honduras, the Rural Competitiveness Project brought a 30 percent increase in the
land and labor productivity of participating producers by 2020, benefiting close to
13,000 farmers, including women and Indigenous People. The IDA19 replenishment
has also allowed the Bank to reinforce support for job creation and economic transformation, with at least 60 percent of operations in the current cycle supporting digital skills development that can help women access higher productivity jobs.
During the pandemic, we have taken fast action to preserve jobs by supporting
both businesses and workers. In India, we are using existing national platforms
and programs to provide social protection for essential workers who are involved
in COVID-19 relief efforts and to support vulnerable groups, particularly migrants
and informal workers. We are also assisting viable firms, strengthening insolvency
regimes, and building financial sector resilience in Indonesia, Mexico, Paraguay,
and Uruguay.

Global Economic Prospects:
A tale of two recoveries
This semiannual flagship report, published in
January and June, examines global economic
developments, prospects, and policies, with
a focus on emerging market and developing
economies. The June 2021 edition describes
how the global economy is experiencing
a strong but uneven recovery, with many
emerging market and developing economies facing obstacles to vaccinating their populations. The global outlook remains uncertain, with the pandemic still posing major risks and the possibility of financial stress amid
large debt loads. Policy makers face a difficult balancing act as they seek
to nurture the recovery while safeguarding price stability and fiscal sustainability. A comprehensive set of policies will be required to promote a strong
recovery that mitigates inequality, enhances environmental sustainability,
and puts economies on a path toward green, resilient, and inclusive development. Prominent among these are efforts to lower trade costs so that
trade can once again become a robust engine of growth. The year 2021 also
marks the 30th anniversary of Global Economic Prospects.

68	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

Several partnerships housed at the Bank are promoting better jobs outcomes
and informing policies related to migrant workers. This includes Solutions for Youth
Employment, an alliance with strong private sector participation, and the Knowledge Partnership on Migration and Development (KNOMAD), which monitors
migration and remittance flows. The KNOMAD report, issued in May 2021, found
that remittance flows to low- and middle-income countries remained resilient in
2020, registering a decline of just 1.6 percent below 2019 levels. These flows are
expected to increase by 2.6 percent in 2021, though the outlook remains uncertain
due to the pandemic. We are also working with partners and countries during the
pandemic to keep remittances flowing, providing a financial lifeline for many people
in developing countries.

Spurring economic transformation
In rebuilding the global economy, countries will need to tackle short- and long-term
challenges comprehensively and simultaneously. This will require a broad transformation—one that mobilizes every reserve of productive power to generate development that is green, resilient, and inclusive.
We are working to accelerate this transformation by encouraging entrepreneurship and innovation, strengthening markets, improving the business environment
and competition, facilitating trade and foreign direct investment, and spurring the
creation of more and better jobs.
In fiscal 2021, we conducted surveys in more than 100 countries to help policy
makers better understand the pandemic’s impact on businesses and households.
We also supported country policy reforms and investment focused on jobs and
economic transformation. In Mozambique, we supported a project that enables
the government to deliver digital public services and promote the growth of digital
businesses. In Ecuador, we helped implement policy reforms to reduce barriers to
setting up companies and remove disincentives for providing credit and hiring.
To help developing countries tap into global markets and reap the economic
benefits of trade, we worked with governments to monitor trade developments
and dismantle non-tariff barriers. A Bank analysis of the African Continental Free
Trade Agreement estimated that greater trade could be achieved by simplifying
customs procedures and cutting red tape at borders, leading to nearly $300 billion

Women, Business, and the Law 2021 is the
­ eventh edition of annual studies measuring the laws
s
and r­egulations that affect women’s economic oppor­
tunity in 190 economies. It presents eight indicators
structured around women’s interactions with the law
as they move through their lives and careers: mobility,
workplace, pay, marriage, parenthood, entrepreneurship,
assets, and pension. This edition builds evidence of the
links between legal gender equality and women’s economic inclusion, identifies barriers to women’s economic
participation, and encourages the reform of discriminatory laws. This latest study also includes findings on
government responses to the COVID-19 crisis and pilot research related to
child care and women’s access to justice. By examining the economic decisions that women make throughout their working lives, as well as the pace
of reform over the past 50 years, this report makes a key contribution to
research and policy discussions about women’s economic empowerment.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

69

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

in income gains. We also advised governments on how to maintain investment flows
during a period of extreme uncertainty. Attracting foreign investment can enhance
competitiveness and open opportunities for participating in global value chains. In
Madagascar, we are helping the government develop the infrastructure and services
necessary to ensure sustainable growth of the tourism and agribusiness industries.

Investing in sustainable infrastructure
We work with countries to build sustainable infrastructure that helps connect people to opportunities, promotes economic growth, and improves livelihoods. Our
integrated approach spans all dimensions of infrastructure development, from
advising on policy and regulation to boosting private sector participation, mobilizing financial solutions, and helping governments prepare projects and bring them
to market. While COVID-19 has been a major shock to the sector, it also presents
an opportunity for countries to rebuild better, meet their climate goals, and stimulate flagging economies with green, sustainable, and inclusive infrastructure development. The Bank is helping governments take stock of projects, prioritize them
based on changing priorities, and build resilience to potential future shocks. We
are convening ministries to share lessons learned and recommendations as they
address new challenges.
Financing infrastructure is particularly challenging in developing countries that
have low savings rates, underdeveloped domestic capital markets, and looming debt
concerns. Along with perceived political and commercial risks, countries’ access to
international capital markets is often limited, with the private sector accounting for
only 9 to 13 percent of total infrastructure investments. To help close this gap, we
work on comprehensive country programs to mobilize domestic and international
private sector financiers, including institutional investors. In Kenya, we supported
the creation of a consortium of pension funds to invest in infrastructure projects,
the first of its kind in Africa. The Bank Group is deploying our full range of financial
instruments and services, encompassing support from the Bank, IFC, and MIGA.
This work is supported by partnerships housed in the Bank.
The Global Infrastructure Facility (GIF), a G20 initiative, brings together donors,
the Bank Group, other multilateral development banks, host governments, and the
private sector to address the shortage of high-quality, bankable infrastructure projects in developing countries. Since its inception, the GIF has delivered 115 advisory
engagements in 57 countries, with an estimated total investment of $75 billion. In

70	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

Brazil, a municipal street lighting program is expected to contribute to 21,500 tons
of emission reductions per year and $250 million in private investment. In Bulgaria,
the GIF is helping mobilize $488 million in private investment for the Sofia Airport.
In Ukraine, the GIF supported pilot projects at Olvia and Kherson ports—the first
concessions prepared according to international best practice under the country’s
new public–private partnership (PPP) law. The GIF also hit an important milestone
in fiscal 2021, embarking on its post-pilot strategy in a strong demonstration that it
passed the market test.
The Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility helps governments strengthen
policies, regulations, and institutions that enable sustainable infrastructure with private sector participation. In fiscal 2021, the facility teamed up with the Bank on an
umbrella program whereby governments requested interventions of rapid, remote,
and targeted technical advice to assess the pandemic’s impact on their PPP programs. In 2020, the Bank also established the Global PPP Community Forum, a virtual global platform to exchange experiences unique to PPPs in infrastructure.

Strengthening financial sector resilience
COVID-19 has forced a painful transformation on businesses across the world. By
causing corporate debt and nonperforming loans to rise, it has magnified the risk of
financial distress and clouded prospects for private investment. Our Business Pulse
Survey showed that 84 percent of firms in developing countries reported lower
sales as a result of the pandemic—a drop of 49 percent on average. Even otherwise
sound companies faced acute working-capital and liquidity constraints.
The Bank Group moved quickly to help governments monitor risks, protect the
integrity of their financial systems, and improve their legal systems to prepare for a
potential wave of bankruptcies that could undermine recovery and financial health
for years to come. The Bank is also a global standard-setter for insolvency and creditor regimes. A 2021 revision to our Principles for Effective Insolvency and Creditor/
Debtor Regimes focused on helping insolvency and bankruptcy systems that better
support small and medium enterprises.
We are also advising governments on how to deepen capital markets and
mobilize long-term finance to foster a green, resilient, and inclusive recovery. In
fiscal 2021, we helped over 30 countries improve their resilience to disasters and
climate shocks by developing prearranged, market-based financial solutions for
rapid response. In Indonesia, we helped the government establish a national pooling fund for disasters through a $500 million loan, which was complemented by a
$14 million grant from the Global Risk Financing Facility. In Colombia, we helped
the National Guarantee Fund mobilize financial resources from institutional
investors to support the recovery of small and medium enterprises affected by
COVID-19. In addition, the Bank Group’s Joint Capital Market Program provided
investments and advice to help countries develop local capital markets and improve
the capacity of local institutional investors to deliver longer-term financing. In Peru,
we helped develop a legal and regulatory framework for crowd-funding, while IFC
invested in a fund that is providing much-needed working capital to
small and medium enterprises.
In response to growing interest from regulators and investors in expanding digital financial services, we helped over 50
countries expand their access to these services by investing
in infrastructure, such as mobile broadband, and advising
on legal and regulatory frameworks.

Promoting digital development for growth
Digital development accelerates socioeconomic progress while
connecting citizens to services and opportunities. It enables more
people than ever—regardless of income level and location—to access
	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

71

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

unprecedented amounts of information, work and study online, and receive life-saving care through telemedicine. Meanwhile, mobile money provides an easy, secure
alternative to traditional banking while increasing financial inclusion. Yet the pandemic has made clear that not everyone has benefited equally. In ­Senegal, just 8
percent of small and informal businesses have invested in digital technologies, compared to 36 percent of medium and large businesses. Across Africa, 7 million university students paused their education in 2020 due to lack of access. These examples
highlight a growing digital divide and the likely emergence of a new class of “digital
poor” who lack access, opportunity, and skills. There are also privacy and cybersecurity risks, which underscore the importance of secure digital transformation.
The Bank Group is helping countries increase bandwidth, ensure continuity
of public services, address cyber risks, and power financial technologies; we are
developing regional and country action plans to achieve these goals. Across Africa,
where about one-third of the population has broadband access, achieving universal,
affordable, and high-quality internet access by 2030 requires massive investment.
The Bank launched the Digital Economy for Africa initiative to support the African
Union’s Digital Transformation Strategy; the aim is to digitally connect every individual, business, and government in Africa by 2030. We have prepared 35 country
diagnostics under the initiative and are working to expand such efforts into South
Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean.
The Bank is also helping countries leapfrog into the digital economy of the future.
Our report What’s Cooking: Digital Transformation of the Agrifood System provides
a roadmap to scale up digital tools in agriculture to improve yields, cut food loss
and waste, and help farmers receive fair pay. In Malawi, we are providing support for
home-based and remote work facilities for government staff, as well as connectivity
to health care. In Turkey, we are supporting virtual schooling during the pandemic,
while in Mali, we are helping the government provide education through radio, television, and the internet.
Effective identification systems help ensure access to social programs, economic
opportunities, and finance, while also reducing fraud and boosting inclusion. But an
estimated 1 billion people—half of them in Africa—do not have basic ID credentials.
The ID4D Initiative provides technical and financial support to realize this transformational potential. In fiscal 2021, it helped improve the safe delivery of COVID-19
payments and informed over $355 million in financing to developing countries.

72	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Rebuilding better
Reducing debt and improving fiscal sustainability
Even before COVID-19, growth was slowing in developing
countries, and debt burdens had reached record highs.
The pandemic has aggravated the situation, leaving these
countries with little fiscal space to respond to the crisis. From
the start of the pandemic, the Bank Group has helped countries
free up urgently needed resources while also strengthening transparency and debt-management capacity. We have worked closely with the G20
to deliver debt relief for countries that need it most. We are also helping countries
improve fiscal sustainability and mobilize domestic resources more efficiently.
The G20’s Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI), established in May 2020
at the urging of the World Bank and the IMF, delivered more than $5 billion in debt
relief to more than 40 participating countries. Originally set to end in December
2020, the initiative was extended twice because of the COVID-19 crisis and is
expected to end in December 2021. In addition, we have helped the G20 establish the Common Framework for Debt Treatment Beyond the DSSI, which will help
countries that face unsustainable debt burdens secure the debt relief they need, on
a case-by-case basis.
After the DSSI was established, the Bank Group took an important step to
increase transparency about countries participating in the initiative. We created a
virtual one-stop shop that provides a country-by-country accounting of DSSI participants and the amounts they owe to creditors, based on information from the
Bank’s International Debt Statistics database. We also introduced tools to encourage greater debt transparency in IDA countries, including heat maps on transparency in debt reporting and on the issuance of domestic debt securities.
In March 2021, our support for Sudan helped the country clear its arrears to IDA,
enabling its full re-engagement with the Bank Group after nearly three decades and
paving the way for it to access nearly $2 billion in IDA grants for poverty reduction
and sustainable economic recovery. The clearance of arrears brought Sudan closer
to qualifying for relief under the Highly-Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative
and is expected to reduce its external debt burden of nearly $57 billion.
Through our research and analytical work, we advised countries on how to manage public spending and improve domestic resource mobilization in ways that are
both efficient and effective, including efforts to rebalance taxation to address rising
inequality. We also contributed new insights on how to improve debt and fiscal sustainability, specifically through analysis of gaps in public debt disclosure in developing countries and guidance on how to develop local currency bond markets.

Investing in climate action
The World Bank Group is the largest multilateral funder of climate investments
in developing countries, delivering $83 billion in climate finance to countries over
the last five years and expanding climate change priorities to sectors not traditionally associated with climate action, from fiscal budgeting and planning to digital development and social protection. In fiscal 2020, the Bank Group committed
a record-breaking $21.4 billion to climate-related investments, the highest level in
a single year; financing for adaptation rose from 40 percent of the Bank’s climate
finance in 2016 to 52 percent in 2020. These efforts are now even more urgent as
countries combat the effects of climate change amid the COVID-19 crisis. In Honduras, we supported the country’s emergency response and recovery from hurricanes
Eta and Iota during the Atlantic’s most active hurricane season on record. In the
Philippines, a disaster risk reduction project addressed the multiple shocks of the
pandemic-related health crisis, damaging typhoons, and the global recession.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

73

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

In June 2021, we released a new Climate Change Action
Plan for 2021–25. It marks a paradigm shift for the Bank
Group, moving from investing in green projects to
greening entire economies, and from inputs to measuring impacts that help countries reduce emissions and
strengthen their resilience to climate risks.
Under the new Plan, we are committing to deliver record
levels of climate finance to developing countries: an average
of 35 percent of Bank Group financing to support countries’ climate action, up from the 26 percent average achieved over the previous five years,
with at least 50 percent of climate finance from IBRD and IDA supporting adaptation. We will also align all financing flows with the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
The World Bank will align all new operations starting July 1, 2023. For IFC and MIGA,
85 percent of Board-approved real sector operations will be aligned starting July 1,
2023, and 100 percent starting July 1, 2025.
The plan focuses on key systems—energy, agriculture, food, water, land, cities,
transport, and manufacturing—that account for over 90 percent of global emissions and face significant climate impacts. To transform these systems, we will help
develop global standards for financial systems to incentivize low-carbon, resilient,
and sustainable investments, drawing on our experience with green bonds and
other sustainable financial instruments. Our approach to the low-carbon transition focuses on people and communities, so that they can benefit from the new
climate economy, by supporting citizen engagement and participatory processes
to ensure that gains and losses are shared equitably. We will also help countries
assess and address the distributional impacts of policies, including carbon pricing,
as well as design instruments and policies that support a socially just transition
away from coal.
The plan promotes transparency and accountability through monitoring systems with clear metrics, objectives, and milestones, as well as supports global standards for reducing emissions. For Bank projects, we will use new metrics to report
on their resilience to disaster and climate risks, while new result indicators will better
capture the impacts of our interventions in countries, including emission reductions.
To better integrate climate and development and prioritize action, we will prepare
new Country Climate and Development Reports, which will become a core diagnostic for the Bank Group and inform our engagements with countries. We will ramp up
our support to countries as they develop and implement new Nationally Determined
Contributions and long-term strategies, as well as help them strengthen their financial systems to manage climate-related risks and mobilize capital.
The Bank Group also convenes, coordinates, and participates in global partnerships that drive climate action, including the Coalition of Finance Ministers for
Climate Action; as of June 2021, it comprises more than 60 countries. At its ministerial meeting on the margins of the 2021 Spring Meetings, the Coalition stepped
up calls for green growth investments and discussed policies to support decarbonization and help manage climate-related risks to financial stability.

Promoting fiscal and financial reforms
Exceptional and urgent global action is needed to tackle the combined impact of
cascading crises while adapting to post-pandemic realities and working toward
green, resilient, and inclusive recovery. We are working to help countries combat rising poverty and deepening inequality while also addressing the devastation wrought
by COVID-19 and the longer-term challenges posed by climate change.
Our approach is comprehensive. It includes advising countries on how to implement reforms and policies that address economy-wide challenges while also creat­
ing the necessary fiscal space and leveraging private capital. We help countries

74	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

assess the distributional impacts of reforms and how they contribute to sustainable
growth. We also help them develop climate-informed fiscal and macroeconomic
policies. To support this work, we monitor global macroeconomic indicators as well
as financial and commodity markets. We also advocate for implementing structural
reforms and applying a poverty and equity lens to fiscal policies for green growth.
We are developing tools and how-to guides to help countries overcome perceived trade-offs between short-term macroeconomic objectives and long-term
sustainable growth. We are also helping them integrate sustainability into their
growth strategies to safeguard climate and natural resources while improving
growth, investment, and job creation. At the regional level, we are helping design
growth-oriented climate measures, such as:
•	 Fiscal policies for sustainable recovery. Designing tax and expenditure policies
to address the challenges of climate change, net job creation, and managing fiscal stimulus in a sustainable way.
•	 Fuel tax and subsidy reform. Quantitative impact assessments of carbon
pricing on revenues, output, employment, informality, emissions, pollution, and
public health.
•	 Fiscal policy for sustainable land use. Raising revenues and improving sustain­
ability through reforms of commodity taxes, ecological fiscal transfers, and
forest revenue management.
Our work on fiscal policy also includes advice to governments on how to increase
the efficiency and effectiveness of their public financial management and public
investment management.
In Côte d’Ivoire, the $200 million First Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Project removed barriers to private sector investment in the sustainable production of
electricity and cocoa. It has also helped the government secure an additional $100
million in climate financing.
We also help countries introduce standards for green bonds and reporting
­regulations to support greener financial systems. In Colombia, we worked with regulators to ensure that local pension funds disclose how they integrate environmental, social, and governance risk factors into their investment processes.

Tackling corruption and promoting good governance
We help countries strengthen governance and fight corruption, with the aim of creating greater fiscal space, increasing efficiency, and ensuring better quality services
for those in need. We help governments better manage public finances and streamline bureaucracy, including tax administration, decentralization, and the reform of
state-owned enterprises. We also help them deploy technology to deliver public services, expand public access
to information, improve accountability, and reduce
administrative corruption.
Our GovTech initiative supports digital transformation to modernize core g
­ overnment operations while also promoting civic participation
and building accountability and trust. The
GovTech Global Partnership and the GovTech
Multi­door Trust Fund deepen this work on a global
scale and reinforce our IDA commitments on governance and institutions. During the COVID-19 crisis,
we have prepared policy notes and a tracking portal to
help countries strengthen governance and resilience.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

75

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

In fiscal 2021, we launched a set of initiatives to strengthen our anticorruption
work and address the transnational nature of corruption, the role of power dynamics that can make corruption intractable, and the need to improve transparency.
We produced research on how corruption can be controlled at the sector level,
along with practical guides on asset recovery and managing conflicts of interest.
We also led a new international, collaborative effort to establish the Methodology
for Assessing Procurement Systems, which aims to accelerate the implementation of modern, efficient, sustainable, and more inclusive public procurement; the
World Bank conducted assessments for 17 countries. And we launched the Procurement, Anticorruption, and Transparency platform to provide easy access to
public procurement data and enable users to identify and manage integrity and
transparency risks.
To address COVID-19, we worked with sup­pliers to share estimates of aggregate
demand and develop a streamlined procedure to procure medical supplies, equipment, and vaccines. This involved facilitating emergency fast-track procurement,
addressing supply-chain constraints, and managing the impact of COVID-19 on
non-emergency procurement and contract execution. To enhance transparency, all
contracts are published on the Bank’s external website.

Protecting natural resources and supporting biodiversity
Managing and recognizing the value of natural capital—such as forests, the ocean,
water, and soil—is core to a green, resilient, and inclusive recovery. Poorly managed
land drives the emergence of zoonotic diseases, while protecting natural resources
will help reduce the risk of future pandemics. The Bank works with countries to
implement policies that better value ecosystems while combating climate change
and improving livelihoods for people who rely on natural resources; this includes
people working in forestry, fisheries, and agriculture.
We made investments to provide quick support to the fisheries, tourism, and
ecotourism sectors and support communities whose lives have been disrupted
by COVID-19. The pandemic has led to greater use of single-use plastics and
medical waste, which can end up in oceans and waterways; in India and Pakistan,

76	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

we are supporting efforts to address medical waste. We are also providing financial
support, technical assistance, and knowledge products to help countries address
the environmental impacts of the pandemic and use stimulus funds toward a
green, resilient, and inclusive recovery. In Mexico and Egypt, we are supporting
efforts to improve air quality to help save lives, improve productivity, and mitigate
climate change.
We contributed to new research and analytics on threats to biodiversity and ecosystem services, which provide a strong economic rationale to invest in nature. At
the One Planet Summit in January 2021, which focused on biodiversity, we committed to invest more than $5 billion over the next five years to
the Great Green Wall initiative. This initiative seeks to restore
degraded landscapes, improve agricultural productivity, and
invest in climate-resilient infrastructure in 11 African countries, ranging from Djibouti to Senegal.

Building greener, more resilient,
and inclusive cities
In fiscal 2021, city leaders faced multiple crises: a health
emergency that disproportionately affected low-income
residents, an economic downturn that battered municipal
finances, and ongoing natural hazards. The Bank drew on its
disaster risk management experience and technical assistance
from the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery to help countries and
cities cope with these unforeseen and compounding risks. In Lebanon, we supported a rapid damage and needs assessment in partnership with the EU and UN
just days after the devastating explosion at the port in Beirut in August 2020.
Analysis of COVID-19 hotspots in urban settings confirmed the correlation
between crowding and contagion and highlighted the need to improve living conditions for the urban poor, who have been particularly hard hit by the virus and the
impact of lockdown policies on the informal economy. In Kenya, we helped improve
tenure security and access to basic services—including drainage, water, sanitation, and street lighting—for nearly 2 million people who live in informal urban settlements, working in partnership with the Agence Française de Développement.
In Sierra Leone and Tanzania, we supported efforts to map the urban landscape
and better understand flooding risks through digital cash-for-work programs that
allowed unemployed youth to earn money using mobile applications.
The pandemic has tested the resilience of basic services that are essential to
the functioning of healthy cities. In India, we are working to strengthen the management of solid waste in the state of Kerala to improve human health as well as reduce
coastal pollution and the contamination of water resources.
Looking ahead to recovery, the City Climate Finance Gap Fund approved its
first batch of technical assistance grants, totaling nearly $2 million, to help nine
cities transform their climate ambitions into finance-ready projects. These will support cities in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, India, Kosovo, Mexico,
Morocco, and Vietnam as they identify sources of urban emissions and prioritize
critical policies and infrastructure investments.
In June 2021, we launched From Pancakes to Pyramids: City Form for Sustainable Growth, a report based on a survey of nearly 10,000 cities. By shedding light
on what makes a city grow outward, inward, or upward, the report can help us better understand the interplay between city density, public transport, and non-car
modes of transportation as well as help cities reduce their climate footprints. The
Bank aims to scale up support to cities, so that they can integrate or enhance
low-carbon and climate- and disaster-resilient considerations into urban planning,
policy, and investment.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

77

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

Supporting resilient transport
Countries need well-functioning transport and logistics networks to keep their
economies moving and ensure that vaccines reach everyone, including the poor.
The pandemic has exposed the sector’s vulnerabilities, with huge disruptions to
supply chains and significant revenue losses for operators worldwide. Yet even
before this crisis, many countries had major gaps in transport accessibility, with
1 billion people living more than 2 kilometers from an all-weather road; more than
1.3 million people, mostly in developing countries, dying every year in road crashes;
one in six women avoiding jobs due to fear of harassment on public transport; countless children unable to travel to schools; and crops rotting before reaching markets.
The transport sector also claims about 24 percent of energy-related carbon emissions, as demand grows with urbanization and economic growth. Without aggressive measures, its emissions are expected to grow 60 percent by 2050: achieving
climate goals will not be feasible without decarbonizing transport. Compounding
the challenge, transport infrastructure is highly vulnerable to extreme climate
events. With the right policies and resources, however, transport can spur economies; connect people to jobs, health, and education; and address climate change.
The Bank’s transport investment portfolio of about $45 billion covers nearly 100
countries through projects that support public transport, logistics, roads, railways,
aviation, ports, and waterways, as well as newer innovations such as drones and
electric vehicles. These efforts are helping countries as they rethink mobility amid
the recovery from COVID-19. In fiscal 2021, we launched the Global Facility to Decarbonize Transport, the first umbrella trust fund that puts climate action at the heart
of transport development. It will help scale up innovation and investment across all
transport modes by supporting knowledge creation, project preparation, technical
assistance, and advocacy. The facility will expand on Bank-supported successes,
such as Ecuador’s first metro line, in Quito, which will save an estimated 65,000
tons of emissions yearly and give 377,000 daily riders a fast, reliable way to reach
jobs and services. In Senegal, the Transport and Urban Mobility Project has halved
travel time between Dakar and Saint-Louis for about a million people, while creating
road paving jobs for men and women. The Pacific Aviation Investment Program is
improving the resilience of aviation infrastructure and strengthening compliance
with international regulations in Kiribati, Samoa, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.

78	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

Ensuring access to energy for all for sustainable growth
Today, nearly 759 million people still live without electricity, and about 3 billion lack
access to clean cooking. Despite faster progress, it is unlikely that everyone will be
able to access affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy by 2030. To keep
pace with population growth, 940 million more people would need access to electricity over the next decade—yet COVID-19 has slowed the necessary investments.
To help close the gap, the Bank has more than doubled our financing for energy
access, from less than $400 million on average in fiscal 2013–15 to nearly $900
million in fiscal 2018–20, with more than 90 percent of this going to Sub-Saharan
Africa. In the past five years, we have provided $4.2 billion in financing to establish or improve electricity connections for nearly 120 million people. We have also
committed more than $400 million across 21 countries to help 20 million people
gain access to healthier and more efficient cooking and heating. This work is supported by partners such as the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program,
which provides technical expertise and financing to help achieve universal access to
energy by 2030. The program contributes to our energy portfolio and helps mainstream off-grid and mini-grid solutions to expand access; its lending represents a
quarter of global mini-grid investment.
Recent advances in technology have greatly reduced the cost of renewable
energy, presenting an opportunity to increase its share in the global energy mix. The
Bank Group is one of the largest providers of financing for renewable energy and
energy efficiency projects in developing countries, committing $8.4 billion over the
past five years and helping mobilize private capital for the sector. We are supporting Uzbekistan’s first solar photovoltaic power plant to help the country reduce its
dependency on natural gas and coal, produce clean energy, strengthen the security of supply, and combat climate change. It will be the country’s first large-scale,
privately developed and operated renewable energy facility; it is supported by IFC
loans, a Bank guarantee, financing from the Asian Development Bank, and private
sector investment.
The World Bank also helps client countries manage oil, gas, and mining in ways
that contribute to sustainable growth and development, protect communities,
and reduce emissions. In 2020, we worked with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria,
Greece, Poland, Serbia, and Ukraine to help them plan and prepare for a just transition of their coal regions. The Platform Initiative for Coal Regions Transition in
the Western Balkans and Ukraine promotes inclusive strategies for transitioning to
low-carbon energy. Meanwhile, the Extractives Global Programmatic Support Trust
Fund is helping artisanal and small-scale miners and their communities cope with
the impacts of COVID-19. In May 2021, it released the 2020 State of the Artisanal
and Small-Scale Mining Sector report, which finds that better working conditions
could improve productivity, health, and safety for more than 44 million artisanal
miners across 80 countries. The Bank Group’s Climate-Smart Mining Initiative
is also helping countries respond to the rising demand for critical minerals and
metals with sustainable mining practices.
We work with countries and partners to reduce gas flaring, which wastes
resources and releases harmful emissions into the atmosphere. In fiscal 2021, support for the Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative—introduced by the Bank and
partners in 2015—grew to 79 governments and oil companies. In addition, through
the Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership, we continue to work with seven countries that have high levels of gas flaring.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/topics.

	

SUPPORTING COUNTRIES’ CRISIS RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 	

79

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

80	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

Strengthening Capital Markets and
Promoting Sustainable Finance
IBRD has mobilized finance for middle-income client countries for more
than 70 years, raising over $1 trillion since its first bond in 1947. IBRD engages with
investors on special development themes, helping connect their investing to the
Sustainable Development Goals. We continue to see greater interest from investors
in supporting investments that incorporate environmental, social, and governance
considerations, including topics such as health, education, gender, climate, clean
water, and sanitation. The World Bank Treasury publishes an annual impact report
for investors, which summarizes results achieved by IBRD-financed projects; highlights of the Treasury’s activities in fiscal 2021 are also outlined in this chapter. More
information about IFC and MIGA’s work to strengthen countries’ capital markets
can be found in their respective annual reports.
In fiscal 2021, IBRD drew on its triple-A rating and strong standing in the markets to raise $68 billion in Sustainable Development Bonds to support the Bank’s
development activities, including our work with clients to respond to COVID-19 and
build resilience to future shocks.
Highlights from the fiscal year included an innovative $100 million five-year
bond, issued by IBRD in March 2021, to support sustainable development and the
global response to COVID-19. To address the pandemic’s impact on children, the
issuance channeled $50 million to UNICEF, with IBRD facilitating the risk transfer. In
February 2021, IBRD issued a $600 million 10-year floating rate bond—the longest
maturity floating rate benchmark to date for the Secured Overnight Financing Rate
(SOFR). This supports development of the SOFR market, boosting alternatives to
the U.S. dollar London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and helping ensure the efficient functioning of the global financial system.

Developing sustainable capital markets
As the first issuer of a labeled green bond, IBRD continues to support the growth
of the sustainable bond market and the harmonization of impact reporting and
issuance processes. As part of its Sustainable Development Bond program, IBRD
issues sustainability bonds and green bonds, which are tailored to investors’ interests; for green bonds, IBRD allocates equivalent amounts to eligible activities that
address climate change. As of June 30, 2021, IBRD has raised approximately $16
billion through 185 transactions in 23 currencies since 2008. The Bank is also helping countries reach their climate and environmental goals with technical assistance
to develop greener and more sustainable capital markets and financial systems,
facilitate market-based solutions, and drive private sector capital toward environmental and social priorities. In fiscal 2021, we supported a sovereign green bond
in Egypt—the first in the Middle East and North Africa—and the first green bond by
the Indonesia Infrastructure Financing Company. We also helped develop national
green taxonomies in Colombia and Malaysia and advised on green finance strategies and transactions in several countries, including options for linking debt relief to
climate issues.
IDA supports the world’s poorest countries, many of which face major challenges from COVID-19. Since its capital market debut in 2018 with a $1.5 billion
bond in U.S. dollars, IDA has been building its market presence to support a larger
funding program by issuing bonds in various maturities and currencies, including

	

STRENGTHENING CAPITAL MARKETS AND PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE 	

81

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

the euro, British pound, and Swedish kronor. IDA’s triple-A rating enables it to issue
Sustainable Development Bonds that leverage shareholder contributions to help
low-income countries respond to COVID-19. In fiscal 2021, IDA issued $10 billion.

Informing countries about financial products and solutions
Throughout the fiscal year, the Bank’s Treasury advised countries on financing
solutions as they faced resource constraints, limited fiscal space, and rising public
debt levels. We provided information about financing options under the World Bank
Group’s $14 billion Fast-Track COVID-19 Facility, increased the maturity limits on
fast-disbursing IBRD operations, and helped maximize low-cost, long-term development financing, including loans under the IDA Scale-Up Facility.
The global transition away from LIBOR toward alternative reference rates
will affect all participants in the financial and capital markets, including the Bank
and our member countries. To ensure a smooth and orderly transition, we made
changes to our financial terms, starting with the April 2021 suspension of the IBRD
flexible loan with the fixed spread. We are helping countries understand the implications of these changes and make informed decisions about their financing and risk
management options; efforts have included communication campaigns, ongoing
engagement with countries and project teams, and online training for more than
3,000 borrowers and staff.

Managing disaster risks through global capital markets
The Bank helps countries increase financial resilience against disasters by helping
members improve their access to the reinsurance and capital markets. Our Treasury
works with governments to prepare and execute risk transfer transactions before a
catastrophic event occurs. To date, we have transferred $5 billion of disaster risk
to international markets for countries. Of this amount, $710 million of IBRD-issued
catastrophe bonds—which address earthquake and hurricane risks in Mexico and
the Philippines—are outstanding in the capital markets.
Countries in Asia and the Pacific are among the most exposed to natural dis­
asters. In fiscal 2021, the Treasury organized events with the APEC Business Advisory Council and the Asia Pacific Financial Forum that looked at how disaster
risk–transfer instruments and capital markets can strengthen financial resilience
across the region. The Treasury also secured a grant for the Philippines catastrophe bond from the Monetary Authority of Singapore and is engaging with the Hong
Kong Insurance Authority (located in Hong Kong, SAR, China) on another potential
IBRD-issued catastrophe bond.

Building human capital in public sector asset management
The World Bank Treasury’s Reserve Advisory and Management Partnership (RAMP)
delivers demand-driven capacity building and asset management services to official
sector asset managers. It helps central banks, international financial institutions,
pension funds, and sovereign wealth funds build capacity and strengthen investment operations through advisory missions, technical workshops, and global conferences. RAMP now serves 78 institutions, including 20 in low-income countries
and eight in countries affected by fragility and conflict. For fiscal 2021, the Partnership transformed and expanded its services by delivering 170 advisory missions,
two global conferences, 25 workshops for 1,400 people, and 31 webinars with 3,200
participants. It also established the RAMP Trust Fund to extend membership to central banks and other public sector institutions in countries that are IDA-eligible or
affected by fragility and conflict and that could not otherwise afford to participate.

For more information, visit treasury.worldbank.org.

82	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

Partnering on the Path to Recovery
Now more than ever, the challenges we face demand collective action.
Climate change, conflict, poverty, and fragility cannot be addressed alone—lasting
solutions will require new partnerships and coalitions. We engage with a diverse
range of partners to exchange ideas and help build political and financial support for
our mission. Our partnerships are critical to advancing action on shared development priorities, including inequality, climate adaptation and resilience, fragility, gender, and human capital. In fiscal 2021, our partnerships focused on supporting the
global response to the COVID-19 pandemic and setting the foundation for a green,
resilient, and inclusive recovery.
Multilateral affairs. In fiscal 2021, we participated in a wide range of multilateral
platforms and engaged closely with the G7, G20, other multilateral development
banks, and the UN system to address countries’ development challenges, including the impacts of the pandemic. We worked closely with the IMF under the Saudi
and Italian G20 Presidencies to support the Debt Service Suspension Initiative
(DSSI) and the Common Framework for Debt Treatments Beyond the DSSI, as
well as efforts to enhance debt transparency. This work has been critical in providing fiscal space to client countries, alongside the significant positive net flows
of grants and concessional credits from IDA and other multilateral development
banks. In April 2021, the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors
endorsed advancing the IDA20 replenishment by a year to support the response to
COVID-19 and a green, resilient, and inclusive recovery in IDA countries. In 2021, the
Bank Group, the IMF, and the G7 under the UK’s Presidency have collaborated to
support vulnerable low-income countries and an ambitious green agenda.
The Bank Group has also partnered with UN agencies—including WHO, WFP,
UNICEF, UNOPS, and UNDP—in our response to COVID-19, including key technical
support in defining relevant standards, communicating risk prevention measures,
and procuring medical equipment and supplies. We also worked with UN partners
on key multilateral initiatives to help countries prepare for the rapid, fair, and safe
delivery of COVID-19 vaccines and tools, including readiness assessments for over
140 countries and, as co-leads with the Global Fund, the Access to COVID-19 Tools
Accelerator’s Health Systems Connector Pillar. We drew on these partnerships at
the UN General Assembly, the UN System Chief Executives Board, the Financing for
Sustainable Development Forum, and the High-Level Political Forum. We continued
to work closely with the EU to strengthen social protection systems and disaster
risk management; help countries affected by fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV)
respond to the COVID-19 crisis; and mobilize financing for a green and digital transition. Country outcomes have been central to our multilateral efforts and in our
engagement with the G7 and G20, the EU, and the UN system.
Civil society. Civil society organizations (CSOs) present a broad array of interests,
ideas, and areas of influence and have been indispensable in facilitating, guiding,
and assessing our pandemic response. We engage with them through strategic
interventions that build support for the Bank’s key priorities. These relationships
are maintained through partnerships and outreach, advocacy and campaigns, policy consultations, citizen engagement, operational collaboration, and information

	

PARTNERING ON THE PATH TO RECOVERY 	

83

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

exchange. CSOs provide regular input to the Bank through stakeholder consultations, analysis, and dialogue. The Civil Society Policy Forum, our largest platform
for this engagement, brought together over 2,400 CSO representatives during the
2020 Annual Meetings and the 2021 Spring Meetings. Led by CSOs, discussions
focused on ensuring a green, resilient, and inclusive recovery and ways to bring
local solutions to scale. Major themes included climate action, vaccine equity, debt
relief and IDA, accountability and transparency, responding to human rights abuses,
human capital, and the private sector. CSOs also put forth queries and provided
recommendations in two conversations with the Bank’s Executive Directors and
a town hall with the Bank Group President. They expressed continued support for
shared development goals—including IDA, climate action, and ensuring accountability for pandemic-related financing—during conversations with the Bank Group’s
senior management. During the year, we also facilitated ongoing dialogue between
CSOs and Bank Group experts, enhancing knowledge sharing and creating platforms for feedback on key development themes.
Faith-based organizations. Dedicated to specific religious identities and with
broad geographic influence, these organizations are key strategic partners in our
efforts to address extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity. We engage with
global faith-based organizations and coalitions, UN platforms, and leaders from
a wide range of religious traditions. To advance knowledge sharing, we surveyed
efforts by leading faith-based organizations in addressing the impacts of the pandemic, highlighting practical initiatives and collaboration opportunities with our
country offices. We also convened a working group with a range of stakeholders to
build evidence on the role of faith in advancing country outcomes. We continued to
coordinate with the United States, including by participating in the landmark USAID
Evidence Summit on Strategic Religious Engagement. We also participated in key
coalitions, including the UN Task Force on Religion and Development, the Joint
Learning Initiative, and the International Partnership on Religion and Sustainable
Development.

84	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

Parliamentarians. We engage with parliamentarians worldwide in dialogue,
knowledge sharing, and advocacy to translate global development goals into
meaningful country results. In fiscal 2021, the Bank collaborated with legislators,
parliamentary organizations, and the Parliamentary Network on the World Bank
and IMF toward our shared goal of green, resilient, and inclusive development. Priorities included gender and youth issues, pandemic preparedness, vaccines, debt,
climate, private sector investments, and FCV. Through virtual global events at the
Annual and Spring Meetings, we connected more than 200 parliamentarians from
over 100 countries. These engagements facilitated policy dialogues with legislators, including on actions that parliamentarians could take in their countries to
improve health outcomes.
Philanthropy and the private sector. In fiscal 2021, our partnerships with key
­private and philanthropic organizations helped provide urgent support to communities that are severely affected by the pandemic. We continued working closely
with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to support programs in gender, health,
social protection, and financial services. This partnership has also been crucial in
our work to tackle COVID-19, especially on vaccine access, equity, and distribution. We also partnered with J.P. Morgan on the School to Work program, which
aims to improve access to quality and market-relevant training for youth in six
Indian states. It will directly benefit 37 million students and 2 million teachers;
indirectly, it will reach more than 90 million students and nearly 5 million teachers
across the country.
Key initiatives. While our partnerships represent a diverse array of constituencies,
we also manage several issue-specific initiatives. These include the Bank Group’s
Partnership Fund for the Sustainable Development Goals, which allocated more
than $3.5 million in fiscal 2021 to activities that support COVID-19 response efforts in
small island developing states and countries affected by FCV, leveraging more than
50 new partnerships with governments, UN agencies, the private sector, academia,
and civil society. Also in fiscal 2021, Connect4Climate (C4C)—a global partnership
program of the Communications for Climate Change multidonor trust fund—continued to drive momentum for climate action, connecting over 500 organizations
to facilitate advocacy, operational support, research, and capacity building. C4C
engages with diverse audiences to inspire change, with partnerships across the film,
fashion, music, and sports industries to amplify youth voices.
Local communities. Through the Community Connections program, the Bank
Group aims to live our goals of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared
prosperity in our own communities through employee and corporate philanthropy,
volunteerism, in-kind donations, and an internship program for students from local
public high schools. Together, the programs leverage our motivated and international workforce to help local communities in Washington and around the world.
About 80 percent of our giving each year is provided through the Community Connections Campaign, which collects staff and retiree donations that are matched by
the Bank Group. In fiscal 2021, the campaign set new records, with staff and retirees
pledging over $6 million. Addressing the drastic increase in need during the pandemic, the Bank Group increased its matching rate from 100 percent to 200 percent, for a total pledge of over $19 million to our local communities.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/en/about/partners.

	

PARTNERING ON THE PATH TO RECOVERY 	

85

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

86	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Improving Operations for
Greater Impact
To better serve our clients and partners, we continuously work
to improve our operations, policies, and processes. The aim is to become a more
effective and efficient institution and to maximize our development impact.
The World Bank’s Environmental and Social Framework
Our Environmental and Social Framework came into effect on October 1, 2018,
and as of April 2021, it applies to about 20 percent of our active investment project
financing portfolio. Based on earlier approval dates, the rest of the portfolio continues to apply the Safeguard Policies. Through the framework, we are helping client
countries address a wider range of environmental and social risks, including labor
and working conditions and the inclusion and protection of disadvantaged or vulnerable groups. The framework has also enhanced transparency, with the disclosure
of all relevant project documents including Stakeholder Engagement Plans (when
prepared), which are publicly available online. Yet some challenges have emerged
during the framework’s implementation. Client countries’ capacity, in particular, is
crucial to its long-term success. We have undertaken efforts to provide training to
countries, depending on the available financial and human resources, to help them
build and strengthen their systems for managing environmental and social risks.
The COVID-19 pandemic has presented even more complex environmental and
social risks for countries; concerns include health as well as worker and community protection. We have issued new guidance under the framework to help countries address these risks in their emergency response, including on medical waste
management, the use of military and security forces, stakeholder engagement, and
labor management procedures.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/esf.

The World Bank Procurement Framework
The Bank’s Procurement Framework, in effect since 2016, helps client countries
develop tailored procurement approaches for investment project financing operations. It focuses on market research, needs analysis, and risks to help countries
meet their procurement needs, determine the best value for money, and ensure
successful project implementation.
In recent years, we have updated our fiduciary and risk management implementation procedures under the framework to make these more flexible for emergency
situations. Our responsive procurement procedures allow us to implement investment projects, including health projects related to COVID-19, while maintaining
­fiduciary standards. Over the past year, recognizing the complexity of pandemicrelated supply chains, we used Hands-On Expanded Implementation Support
(HEIS) and Bank-facilitated procurement (see box, page 88) to help clients quickly
procure medical goods, personal protective equipment, and critical care supplies.
In fiscal 2021, 102 projects used HEIS, including 71 projects supporting COVID-19
response efforts, and 33 used Bank-facilitated procurement.
Our Alternative Procurement Arrangements (APAs) allow procurement through
other organizations, such as UN agencies, in situations of fragility, conflict, and
	

IMPROVING OPERATIONS FOR GREATER IMPACT 	

87

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

violence. In Yemen, we have used APAs with the UN Office for Project Services to
help supply electricity for 122 schools, 102 clinics, and 12 water wells. Under our
COVID-19 Health Strategic Preparedness and Response Program, we streamlined
our approaches with UN agencies, enabling $462 million in contracts with clients.
In fiscal 2021, 27 projects involved APAs with UN agencies and other multilateral
development banks.
The Procurement Framework applies to projects with a concept note on or after
July 1, 2016. We closely monitor and evaluate the application of the framework at
the project, country, regional, and global levels. In fiscal 2021, 55 percent of the
Bank’s investment project portfolio (51 percent by dollar value) applied the framework. In fiscal 2021, we prior reviewed 1,130 contracts valued at about $7.7 billion.
We also introduced a new online procurement post review system that enables us
to carry out these reviews remotely.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/procurement.

Helping countries procure critical medical supplies
and equipment during COVID-19
As the world came to terms with the scale and impact of the COVID-19
pandemic, countries struggled to procure urgently needed medical equipment and supplies, with much of the available global stock being sold to
the highest bidders. Developing countries were disadvantaged by market conditions and at risk of being left behind, threatening their ability to
respond to the crisis.
Bank-facilitated procurement seeks to address these gaps by helping
client countries procure medical supplies and equipment more efficiently
while minimizing the risks implicit in crisis situations. The process uses
the existing HEIS mechanism, which helps open up markets while providing fiduciary assurance. The Bank facilitates the sourcing and selection
of suppliers, negotiates the commercial and legal terms, and finalizes
the contracts. Client countries then select the medical equipment they
need from a range of suppliers and make their request to the Bank by
submitting a registration of interest. These steps are now automated
through an online catalog. Bank facilitation is only provided to credible
and qualified suppliers.
By facilitating the procurement process, we are able to aggregate
demand across countries and use our convening power to gain better
market access, as well as leverage a stronger bargaining position with suppliers. Client countries remain responsible for signing and entering into contracts, as well as logistics and administration, but
they receive significant support from the Bank as needed,
ranging from needs identification to delivery and contract
completion.
As countries began responding to the pandemic,
Bank-facilitated procurement helped them rapidly
obtain needed supplies at favorable prices and negotiate agreements that offered broad value for money
across a range of factors. These included product quality, pre-delivery inspections and testing, reasonable lead
times, acceptable shipping terms, warranties, installation
services, user training, and technical support.

88	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

Preventing gender-based violence in our operations
We remain committed to preventing and mitigating the risks of gender-based
violence (GBV) in our operations. In November 2020, we became the first multilateral development bank to introduce a mechanism that can disqualify contractors for failing to comply with obligations related to GBV. Disqualified contractors
will not be awarded a Bank-financed contract anywhere for two years, after which
they will need to demonstrate that they meet our requirements for preventing
GBV before competing for new contracts. This applies to large works contracts
procured after January 1, 2021, that rated “high risk” for sexual exploitation,
abuse, and harassment.
In addition, our standard procurement documents for works have added specific qualifications and requirements that assess bidders’ capacities to comply
with conditions aimed at preventing GBV. These stipulate clear obligations for contractors to manage related risks that are within their control. They include declaring previous incidents leading to contract suspension or termination; adopting
Codes of Conduct focused on GBV risks; training all workers and sub-contractors
on the Code of Conduct; implementing mechanisms to address GBV complaints;
adopting a framework for appropriate disciplinary measures; and retaining qualified personnel to help manage issues related to sexual exploitation, abuse, and
harassment. Contractors are also expected to include additional commitments
and obligations in their environmental and social management plans, which are
linked to and flow from the impact assessments and management plans prepared
for Bank projects.

Reforming trust funds for better coordination and results
Trust funds complement the Bank’s activities by providing financial resources and
contributing to development knowledge. They support the global public goods
agenda on key development challenges, including climate change, fragility, and pandemic preparedness and response. Amid the unprecedented challenges posed by
COVID-19, both trust funds and financial intermediary funds (FIFs) have supported
the Bank’s global response, bringing targeted relief to vulnerable communities
around the world and extending the Bank’s reach.
The amount of Bank funds held in trust at the end of fiscal
2021 was $13.4 billion in trust funds and $26.0 billion in FIFs.
Trust funds finance about two-thirds of the Bank’s advisory
services and analytics, with roughly 72 percent ($13.3 billion) of total trust fund disbursements going to client
countries over fiscal 2017–21. Of this amount, over
$9.6 billion was disbursed to IDA and IBRD-IDA blend
countries. Contributions to FIFs averaged $8.1 billion
annually, while cash transfers to implementing entities
remained relatively steady, with an average annual transfer
of $7.0 billion over the past five years.
The IBRD-IDA trust fund reform aims to reduce fragmentation by consolidating the portfolio. It has identified 72 Umbrella
2.0 programs, which are designed to closely align with the Bank’s priorities and
enhance complementarity with core resources, while giving management better
oversight over their use. Management reviews the Bank’s portfolio of trust funds
annually to move toward better coordinated and responsible fundraising. Eighty
percent of contributions have been received under Umbrella 2.0 programs.

	

IMPROVING OPERATIONS FOR GREATER IMPACT 	

89

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

The Bank’s updated Trust Fund Policy, effective January 2021, reflects changes
in trust fund practices and procedures over the past 12 years. It also supports
­ongoing reforms of trust funds and FIFs, particularly with its explicit reference to aid
fragmentation when considering new funds.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/dfi.

Grievance Redress Service
The Grievance Redress Service (GRS) is an avenue for people and communities to submit complaints directly to the World Bank if they believe
a Bank-financed project has adversely affected them or is likely to. It
was established in 2015 based on recommendations from an Independent Evaluation Group review of the Safeguard Policies. The service
complements project-level grievance mechanisms and ensures that
complaints received at the corporate level are promptly and proactively
addressed by fostering dialogue and identifying sustainable solutions.
In fiscal 2021, the GRS received 299 cases. Complaints cover a wide
spectrum of grievances, including harm to people’s livelihoods, environmental degradation, and occupational health and safety concerns.
Drawing on our experience as well as internal and external feedback,
we regularly assess what works and what can be improved. Recent
improvements include a new directive and a revised procedure, updated
systems and processes, and expanded outreach.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/grs.

90	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

Our Values, People, and Places

We ensure that our values are reflected in our support for staff, our
engagement with clients and partners, and our offices and facilities. We strive
to become a more sustainable and responsible workplace by safeguarding staff
health and well-being, reducing our environmental footprint, engaging communities, and finding ways to work more efficiently. Our Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) Index and Sustainability Review present further details on the sustainability
considerations of our operations and corporate practices; they can be accessed
online through the Annual Report website.

Our Values
We have designated impact, integrity, respect, teamwork, and innovation as the
Bank Group’s core values. In fiscal 2021, we adopted a new Code of Ethics to further
embed these values into our culture and operations. It is a set of principles to guide
staff to do the right thing when confronted with ethical dilemmas. The Staff Rules
continue to define the regulations and policies that guard against misconduct.
To increase awareness and understanding of these issues in the workplace,
in fiscal 2021 we launched a new mandatory virtual training for staff on our core
­values and Code of Ethics, as well as trainings that aim to prevent and address
­sexual and other harassment at the World Bank Group.

Our People
At the end of fiscal 2021, the World Bank had 12,528 full-time staff, of whom 45 percent were based outside our headquarters in Washington, D.C.; 759 new staff joined
the institution during the fiscal year. Despite the challenges arising from COVID19, the Bank remains committed to expanding our global footprint. We expect that
55 percent of staff will be based outside the United States by the mid-2020s. This
means having more staff closer to our clients—particularly in countries affected
by fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV)—and empowering teams who work on the
front lines. By the end of fiscal 2021, 1,043 staff were located in countries affected
by FCV, up from 906 in the previous year.
Driving organizational performance and effectiveness. During fiscal 2021, we
stepped up efforts to strengthen performance management,
talent development, career enrichment, managerial effectiveness, and staff well-being. We encouraged more frequent
conversations and real-time feedback as part of a renewed
approach to performance management, especially
within the virtual work environment. We also launched
a cloud-based system to support managers with
staff review and development. In May, we held the
first virtual career week, with the participation of over
7,300 staff. There was also a significant increase in the
use of career services, with more than twice as many
people attending career seminars compared to the previous fiscal year and a 53 percent increase in the number of
career coaching sessions.
	

OUR VALUES, PEOPLE, AND PLACES 	

91

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

Stepping up the Bank Group’s engagement in FCV settings. We launched an
enhanced career development and mobility framework that allows staff to gain
depth and breadth of experience more systematically through planned rotations
and assignments. This aligns with our global footprint agenda to move resources
and expertise closer to where they are most needed, especially in IDA and FCV settings. As more staff take on field assignments, they will be able to learn, grow, and
build the necessary global experience to better serve the Bank’s mission. We also
launched a new integrated FCV learning and career curriculum and piloted an FCV
mentoring program in Africa and the Middle East.
Promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion among staff. In fiscal 2021, the Bank
continued to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives, including on gender,
race, identity, sexual orientation, and disability. The overall diversity index remained
at 0.89, while the overall gender balance shifted slightly, with the total percentage of
women increasing from 53.2 percent of all staff to 53.3 percent.
Addressing racism and racial discrimination. Amid protests worldwide following
the killing of George Floyd in May 2020, President Malpass made a commitment to
address racism and racial discrimination at the World Bank Group. He established a
Task Force with a mandate to deliver recommendations to senior management, with
more than 50 staff members drawn from across the Bank Group and a Sounding
Board to provide guidance. Drawing on inputs from other forums around the organization, the Task Force delivered 80 recommendations across a range of themes
during its first phase, which focused on internal issues. These include conflict resolution, culture, training, managerial accountability, career management, and recruitment. The recommendations seek to raise awareness, strengthen knowledge, and
mitigate instances of racism and racial discrimination, while providing safe spaces
for staff to flag issues, help level the playing field for career opportunities, and foster
an inclusive workplace composition and culture. As of June 2021, the first 10 recommendations, which are foundational in nature, were under implementation; the
remaining 70 recommendations are under review or slated for implementation. The
second phase, which begins in fiscal 2022, has an external focus, looking at the Bank
Group’s operations, clients, and community engagement. To help inform its work, in
early fiscal 2021, the Task Force carried out the first-ever World Bank Group Survey
on Race. About 70 percent of staff participated and offered over 6,000 comments.
TABLE 16 WORLD BANK (IBRD/IDA) STAFF DATA, FISCAL 2019–21
INDICATOR

FY19

FY20

12,283

12,394

43

44

45

Short-term consultants/
temporaries (FTEs)

5,097

5,521

5,944

Employee engagement (%)

79

77

—

0.88

0.89

0.89

17.8

Total full-time staff
Non-U.S. based (%)

Diversity index

FY21

RELATED INDICATORS

12,528 GRI 401; SDG 8

% represents the deviation from the
gender balance target for a given
category*
Administrative and Support Staff (%)

17.5

17.4

Entry and Junior Technical (%)

2.8

2.7

3.2

Senior Technical (%)

6.8

6.5

5.8

Managers (%)

3.9

2.8

2.7

Average days of training per staff,
at headquarters

5.2

3.7

3.1

Average days of training per staff,
in country offices

4.9

3.3

3.1

GRI 404; SDG 8

Note: – = not available; FTE = full-time equivalent (staff); GRI = Global Reporting Initiative. There was no Engagement Survey in fiscal 2021. *Gender balance is defined as 50% men and 50% women, with a+/-2% margin; 0%
means we have met our gender balance target, while figures over 0% mean men/women are overrepresented.

92	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

Promoting staff health and safety. The Bank Group provides an array of programs
and services to promote and protect the health and safety of staff by focusing on
personal health, prevention, wellness, occupational health and safety, and mental
health and well-being. In fiscal 2021, these efforts were tailored to address the needs
and concerns of staff as they continued to work remotely amid the COVID-19 pandemic (see box below).
Supporting continuous learning and developing skills for career management and mobility. With the Bank Group’s Open Learning Campus (OLC), staff at
headquarters and in country offices can learn continuously by using a broad range
of learning resources, including online courses, peer-to-peer conversations, and
on-the-job learning. At the onset of the pandemic, we fully adapted staff development, career services, seminars, and leadership development offerings for blended
and virtual learning; this effort grew in fiscal 2021 with new offerings to equip staff
with skills and behaviors for working remotely. We also updated manager dashboards to offer more accessible staff learning indicators, better evaluations for

Supporting staff during the COVID-19 pandemic
Throughout the pandemic and the transition to home-based work, the
Bank Group has been working to support our staff, with a focus on personal
health and safety, work-life balance, mental health, and resilience. These
efforts, alongside our significant presence in the field, have enabled staff
to continue delivering results during the largest crisis response in the Bank
Group’s history, despite the challenges presented by working remotely.
To protect staff’s health and well-being, we implemented:
•	 An online staff hub with guidance on the pandemic and vaccines, as well
as resources on health, mental health, and remote work.
•	 Continually updated health and safety information, with more than 100
live online conversations—including leadership town halls and staff
briefings—to keep staff engaged and up-to-date on developments.
•	Support for confirmed cases, contact tracing assistance, and an off-site
testing location for headquarters staff who have symptoms.
•	 Help in accessing care, with financial support for staff and consultants
seeking treatment, including advance payments and an emergency
loan program for staff.
•	 Ongoing support for staff and consultants on general medical and
safety issues.
•	 Psychosocial support, including webinars, counseling, and support
groups, to help staff cope with stress and anxiety.
•	 Access to medical evacuation, as needed, including through a dedicated UN evacuation program.
•	 Monitoring of scenarios that could result in domestic violence, with
resources to address unsafe situations for staff or their families.
•	 Remote support for staff to set up an ergonomic home office and
webinars tailored to home-based work challenges.
•	 Enhanced cleaning and precautions at Bank Group facilities, including
plexiglass, personal protective equipment, air filters, and air quality
testing per CDC guidelines, as well as retrofitting of Bank Group facilities to support health, safety, and distancing measures.
•	 Virtual services, including child care and access to free online physical
fitness programs.
•	 Access to the UN system’s COVID-19 vaccine administration in country
office locations.
continued

	

OUR VALUES, PEOPLE, AND PLACES 	

93

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

To facilitate a smooth transition to home-based work and reinforce our
values, we provided:
•	 Expanded ethics training for staff and accessible virtual resources with
guidance on appropriate conduct, as well as a new onboarding program
for vice presidents and directors, and ongoing review of allegations of
misconduct using virtual and forensic resources.
•	 A new internal site with tools and learning resources to support staff in
working remotely.
•	 More than 60 business applications and solutions to help staff and the
Board process emergency projects while working remotely.
•	 Secure, flexible, and mobile-friendly collaboration solutions and support for more than 3 million virtual meetings and simultaneous interpretation services.
•	 Expanded capacity of the Bank Group’s remote access infrastructure
and introduction of new virtual private network (VPN) solutions, as well
as remote management of over 58,000 devices.
•	 New security controls, enhanced security monitoring, and an awareness campaign, with more than 26,000 people completing a cyber­
security e-learning course.
•	 Support for the first-ever virtual Annual and Spring Meetings, with over
60 events across platforms.
•	 Access to institutional meetings and events through virtual reality platforms and support for missions to countries using 360-degree cameras.
We updated preparedness plans and risk management guidance for our
offices and processes, including for safe reopening, as well as a health
indicators dashboard to guide decision making. The Staff Association also
provided a special relief grant for members in need, organized a fundraiser
for vendors affected by pandemic-related policies, and partnered with the
Bank Group’s Family Network to create a website for parents dealing with
related issues.
We assessed the impact of the transition on staff, the use of resources,
and commuting and travel. Drawing on these assessments, we developed
recommendations to reduce the Bank Group’s environmental footprint
and enhance staff well-being and productivity. We continue to work toward
the safe and gradual return to the workplace, taking into account local
conditions and guidelines, ensuring appropriate health measures and
safeguards, and recognizing the individual circumstances of staff. We are
also exploring hybrid working models that will allow a mix of home-based
and in-person work.

mentoring and on-the-job activities, and a personalized experience, with curated
Learning Maps. During the fiscal year, the OLC delivered more than 4,500 virtual
trainings for staff as they transitioned to home-based work, while maintaining high
overall quality ratings, reflecting growing demand from staff and managers in country offices, FCV settings, and headquarters.
Facilitating a safe place for staff to address concerns and conflicts. The World
Bank Group’s Ethics and Business Conduct Department is a trusted resource for
staff in preventing and addressing misconduct. The department’s Anti-Harassment
Coordinator addresses allegations of sexual harassment as well as other forms of
harassment and inappropriate behaviors. In fiscal 2021, the coordinator reviewed
128 cases. The department reviewed 141 allegations of misconduct and delivered
ethics training and outreach to more than 9,000 staff in fiscal 2021. Through its
advisory services, the department responds to staff requests for ethics advice on
potential conflicts of interest or other compliance issues, on average in less than
94	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

eight working hours. In fiscal 2021, over 1,300 staff sought advice. To strengthen
safeguards and inform remediation processes, the department conducted root
cause analyses for non-compliance, inappropriate behavior, and misconduct.
Through our Internal Justice Services, staff also have confidential channels
to seek advice, guidance, and resources to resolve conflicts, including Ombuds
Services, the Respectful Workplace Advisors program, Mediation Services, Peer
Review Services, and Performance Management Review. These services facilitate a
respectful, values-driven, and ethics-based workplace culture.
Representing staff voice. The World Bank Group Staff Association represents the
rights and interests of staff and consultants to senior management and the Board.
In fiscal 2021, it relayed concerns about organizational changes and policies, challenges posed by the amended compensation methodology, alarm over the current
global environment regarding racism and discrimination, and COVID-19. The association partnered with Harvard University’s T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the
Bank’s Office of Diversity and Inclusion to develop the Staff Wellness Project, which
conducted research on staff well-being through a holistic questionnaire. Questions
focused on staff’s financial, social, and mental health and the impacts of the pandemic. The association also continued to provide health insurance coverage for
short-term temporaries and consultants based at headquarters and facilitate various working groups, including on staff disability and environmental sustain­ability.
To strengthen its country office network, the association created a special website
focusing on country office staff and workplace-related issues, reaching over 90 different countries.

Our Places
The World Bank manages the environmental, social, and economic impacts of its
internal business operations by striving for net positive impacts on the ecosystems,
communities, and economies where we have offices.
Reducing emissions. The World Bank measures, reduces, offsets, and reports on
greenhouse gas emissions from its facilities, major meetings, and corporate air travel,
all of which have been significantly impacted by the global pandemic. At headquarters, facilities were limited to critical access beginning in mid-March 2020, resulting
in a small number of staff and contractors working from the office. Major meetings,
including the Spring Meetings, were moved online, reducing emissions related to
travel, food, and waste. From March to June 2020, travel decreased by 99 percent,
resulting in an estimated 37 percent decrease in emissions from fiscal 2019 to fiscal
2020. We have evaluated lessons learned about alternatives to travel, such as remote
missions and supervision as well as virtual conferences and professional development events. As part of our annual effort to offset carbon emissions not curtailed, the
Bank retired carbon credits totaling 159,007 metric tons CO2 equivalent, covering
100 percent of building-related carbon emissions and all corporate air travel for fiscal 2020. We also purchased 62,267 renewable energy credits (RECs) equivalent to
100 percent of our electricity use at headquarters, at a cost of $233,000. RECs were
purchased from and retired on our behalf by Direct Energy Business (DEB), a retail
energy provider that also provides the Bank’s electricity. RECs represent the environmental impact of one megawatt-hour (MWh) of renewable energy generation that is
added to the electricity grid.
Offset projects are chosen based on rigorous World Bank Group guidelines and
specific to IBRD and IDA countries. In fiscal 2020, the Bank worked with DEB to
choose the renewable energy technology type, project, and region for purchased
RECs. One example of a recently supported offset project is a wind farm in South
Gobi, Mongolia. Unless the offset standard includes a registry to ensure proper retirement and avoid multiple sales, projects are required to (i) number or mark each offset
	

OUR VALUES, PEOPLE, AND PLACES 	

95

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

with an appropriate unique identification code and (ii) show evidence of the registration of the offsets in the Bank Group’s name on their website. We then retire the
credits on a public registry.
Designing sustainable sites. We remain committed to reducing our facilitiesrelated emissions by 28 percent by 2026. We have identified potential improvements for when our staff return to offices; these include energy upgrades, new
renewable energy projects, and water efficiency measures. One-third of the facilities owned by the World Bank worldwide meet a green-building certification standard, such as LEED. All new buildings are designed to meet ambitious standards,
and we seek to continually improve the performance of existing buildings. Following
an audit of the Bank’s main complex in Washington, we upgraded the cooling tower
for water management, which could save up to 1 million liters of water per year when
the building fully reopens. We also undertook a lighting control retro-commissioning for the five headquarters buildings in Washington, allowing us to repair, replace,
or upgrade over 1,500 sensors. We are developing two office-space design pilots
for headquarters to introduce universal space standards and modernize the office
environment, with a focus on environmentally sustainable materials, more efficient
fixtures, better ergonomics, staff health and well-being, and access to natural light.

Our Supply Chain
Ensuring a sustainable supply chain. In fiscal 2021, we continued to implement
the Bank Group’s Sustainable Procurement Framework for greater social and environmental impact. We integrated sustainability requirements into our Vendor Code of
Conduct to ensure that vendors are held to the same high standards that we expect
of ourselves and our clients. We continued to make progress toward the goal of doubling our corporate procurement spend from woman-owned businesses to 7 percent
by 2023, with 4.8 percent of our total procurement coming from woman-owned
businesses in fiscal 2021. We also set a goal to reach 8 percent of our U.S.-based
procurement from minority-owned businesses by 2025; in fiscal 2021, this figure
was 4.7 percent. As part of efforts to tackle emissions from our supply chain, we
established a preliminary baseline for carbon emissions attributed to our purchased
goods and services. As a CDP supply chain member, we will request more accurate
and actionable data from our top suppliers to further refine this baseline and strategically reduce emissions. For more details, see the Sustainability Review and GRI Index.
TABLE 17 SELECTED WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS, FISCAL 2019–20
INDICATOR

FY19

FY20

Absolute GHG emissions (metric tons of
CO2 equivalent)a

250,070

182,106

GRI 305; CDP C6;
SDG 13

Global energy use (GJ)b

458,315

471,930

0.74

0.74

GRI 302; CDP C8.2;
SDG 7

299,054

261,534

Waste diverted from landfill (%)

61

67

GRI 306; SDG 12

Total paper use with 100% recycled content
(both copy paper and print shop, %)c

57

54

GRI 301; SDG 12

Global energy use intensity (GJ/m )

2 b

Global water use (m3)
c

RELATED INDICATORS

GRI 303; SDG 6

Note: Data lags by one fiscal year due to timing of data collection. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions
methodology updated in fiscal 2019, so only two years of data shown. For additional details and data, please
visit the Corporate Responsibility website. CDP = Carbon Disclosure Project; CDP CC = CDP’s Climate Change
indicators; GHG = greenhouse gas; GJ = gigajoule; GJ/m2 = gigajoule per square meter; GRI = Global Reporting
Initiative.
a.	Data are for all World Bank offices worldwide and include Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. Scope 3 business air
travel emissions include radiative forcing. FY20 includes the addition of Cool Food Pledge emissions from
Washington office food procurement. Details have been captured in the Inventory Management Plan.
b.	Data are for all World Bank offices worldwide and include electricity, stationary combustion, and mobile
combustion.
c.	Data are for Washington offices only.

96	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

Guiding the Institution
All the powers of the World Bank are vested in the Board of Governors,
the Bank’s senior decision making body, according to the Articles of Agreement for
IBRD and IDA. Each member country of the Bank is represented by one governor
and one alternate.
The Board of Governors delegates most powers to 25 resident Executive Directors who comprise the Board of Directors for IBRD and IDA. The Executive Directors
represent the World Bank’s 189 member countries and are responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank. The Executive Directors select a President, who serves as Chair of the Board. The current Board term is from November
2020 through October 2022.
The Executive Directors oversee the Bank’s strategic direction and represent
member countries’ viewpoints on the Bank’s role. They decide on proposals made
by the President for IBRD and IDA loans, credits, grants, and guarantees; policies;
the administrative budget; and other operational and financial matters. They discuss Country Partnership Frameworks that shape the Bank Group’s engagement
with client countries and support for development programs. The Executive Directors are responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors an audit of accounts,
an administrative budget, and the Bank’s annual report on fiscal year results.
The Board has five standing committees. Executive Directors serve on one or
more of these committees, which help the Board discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies and other key documents. The
Executive Directors’ Steering Committee, on which all Executive Directors serve,
meets bimonthly to discuss the Board’s strategic work program. Through its committees, the Board regularly engages on the effectiveness of Bank Group activities
with management and with the independent Inspection Panel and the Independent
Evaluation Group, both of which report directly to the Board.

FIGURE 8 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Steering Committee for the World Bank’s (IBRD and IDA) Board

	

Audit Committee—Oversees the Bank’s
finances, accounting, risk management, internal
controls, and institutional integrity.

Committee on Governance and Executive
Directors’ Administrative Matters—Guides the
governance of the Bank, the Board’s own effectiveness, and the administrative policy applicable to
Executive Directors’ offices.

Budget Committee—Assists the Board in
approving the Bank’s budget.

Human Resources Committee—Oversees
responsibility on the Bank’s human resources
strategy, policies, and practices, and their
alignment with the institutions’ business needs.

Committee on Development Effectiveness—
Assesses the Bank’s development effectiveness,
guides its strategic directions, and monitors the
quality and results of operations.

Ethics Committee—Established in 2003 to
consider, on an ad hoc basis, matters relating to
the interpretation or application of the Code of
Conduct for Board officials.

GUIDING THE INSTITUTION 	

97

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

98	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2020

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

Providing Oversight and Accountability
We hold ourselves accountable through institutional mechanisms—
both within and independent of the Bank—that monitor operational performance,
manage institutional risks, address grievances, and ensure transparency in our
work. They provide guidance and recommendations to ensure maximum development effectiveness and adherence to the highest accountability standards.

Independent Evaluation Group
The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) aims to strengthen the Bank Group’s
development effectiveness through evaluations that assess results and performance and that provide recommendations for improvements. It also validates the
Bank Group’s self-evaluations of the results of country programs and projects. The
evaluations and validations provide evidence on factors influencing success and
failure as well as lessons to help inform the Bank Group’s directions, policies, programs, and operations.
In fiscal 2021, IEG completed a range of major evaluations linked to the Bank
Group’s corporate and strategic priorities. It looked at how Bank Group support is
tackling the combined challenges of natural resource degradation and human vulnerability, public financial and debt management, and fiscal and financial sector
vulnerabilities. IEG also evaluated the work of IFC and MIGA in fragile situations, the
Bank’s readiness for mobilizing technology for development, the gender strategy at
midterm, efforts to address undernutrition and urban spatial growth, and the Bank
Group’s outcome orientation at the country level.
IEG continued to draw on its body of evaluations to help inform the Bank Group’s
COVID-19 response, applying lessons from past crises to address the implications
for food security, health, nutrition, social protection, trade facilitation, and trade
finance. Amid the restrictions imposed as a result of the pandemic, IEG continued to
innovate in its use of data sources and methodologies, including the application of
new data science techniques, more extensive use of remote sensing and luminosity
data, and virtual country missions.
For more information and IEG’s annual report, visit ieg.worldbankgroup.org.

Inspection Panel
The Inspection Panel was established by the Bank’s Executive Directors in 1993
to provide people who believe that they have been harmed by a project funded by
IBRD or IDA access to an independent body to which they can express their concerns and seek recourse. During fiscal 2021, the Panel received five complaints. The
Board considered a Panel investigation report related to a municipal governance
project in Brazil. The Panel also began an investigation of a road project in Uganda. A
2020 investigation report related to a water and sanitation project in India remained
with the Board because completion of the management action plan in response to
the Panel’s findings was delayed due to COVID-19 travel restrictions. The Panel also
published the advisory report Responding to Project Gender-Based Violence Complaints through an Independent Accountability Mechanism, which was based on

	

PROVIDING OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY 	

99

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

two earlier investigations into Bank-funded projects in Uganda and the Democratic
Republic of Congo.
Also in fiscal 2021, the Board approved resolutions that formalized earlier decisions to enhance the Panel’s mandate and establish an expanded independent
accountability mechanism that would house the Panel (to carry out compliance
reviews) and a new dispute resolution unit. The new mechanism is expected to
become operational early in fiscal 2022.
For more information and the Inspection Panel’s annual report,
visit www.inspectionpanel.org.

Integrity Vice Presidency
As an independent unit, the Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) detects, deters, and
prevents fraud and corruption in Bank Group–financed operations and involving
Bank Group staff and corporate vendors. It carries out this mandate by investigating
allegations of fraud, corruption, and other sanctionable practices and, when substantiated, pursuing sanctions against external entities and disciplinary measures
against staff. In connection with the sanctions processes, the Integrity Compliance
Office (ICO), an independent unit within INT, reviews the compliance posture of outside firms. Following sanctioning decisions, the ICO engages with sanctioned entities that are working to meet their conditions for release from sanction. INT also
works to identify, monitor, and mitigate integrity risks in Bank Group projects.
Despite pandemic-related restrictions, INT has continued to monitor risks and
act on complaints through greater use of digital tools and partnerships and by
providing additional support to operations related to COVID-19. In fiscal 2021, the
Bank Group sanctioned 57 firms and individuals via uncontested determinations of
the Bank’s Chief Suspension and Debarment Officer, decisions of the Bank Group
Sanctions Board, and settlement agreements. It recognized 92 cross-debarments
from other multilateral development banks (MDBs), and 45 Bank Group debarments were eligible for recognition by other MDBs. Based on ICO determinations,
the Bank Group also removed 30 entities from sanction and converted the debarments with conditional release of two entities to conditional non-debarments.

For more information about INT and the World Bank Group Sanctions
System’s annual report, visit www.worldbank.org/integrity.
To report suspected fraud or corruption in World Bank Group–financed
projects, visit www.worldbank.org/fraudandcorruption.

Group Internal Audit Vice Presidency
The Group Internal Audit Vice-Presidency (GIA) is an independent function reporting
to the President and under the oversight of the Board’s Audit Committee. GIA provides senior management and the Board reasonable assurance that processes for
managing and controlling risks—as well as their overall governance—are adequately
designed and functioning effectively. GIA’s work helps the Bank Group serve its
clients more effectively. GIA delivers audits, as well as assurance and advisory
reviews, which cover all key institutional areas: strategy, operations, finance, and
corporate functions, including IT systems and processes. Its work is carried out in
accordance with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ International Professional Practices Framework. GIA collaborates with risk management and governance functions
within management, as well as with other oversight and accountability units. GIA

100	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

focuses on institutional and stakeholder priorities and significant risks; it delivers
about 25 to 29 engagements a year, covering both assurance and advisory work.
Key topics in fiscal 2021 included the Environmental and Social Framework, integrity due diligence, project supervision, the Doing Business report, preparedness for
the LIBOR transition, the strategic planning and budget process, crisis response and
business continuity management, staff health and safety, country office expenses,
insider threats, privacy technology, and database management.
In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, GIA is performing audits remotely and adjusting the scope, priority, and timing of engagements, as necessary. To keep pace
with the speed of changes in the business and risk landscape, GIA is strengthening
its risk assessment process as well as its partnership and dialogue with management and the Board to understand and identify key risks to the institution and
deliver more timely insight, assurance, and advice.

For more information and GIA’s annual and quarterly reports,
visit www.worldbank.org/internalaudit.

The World Bank Policy on Access to Information
July 2021 marked 10 years of implementation of the World Bank’s Access
to Information Policy, which has made the Bank a global leader in transparency and strengthened our relationships with clients, civil society,
and the broader development and academic community.
Through the policy, the public can request any information in the
Bank’s possession (other than that covered by a list of exceptions) pertaining to our operations, research, finances, and Board proceedings. For
requests that are denied, the public can appeal by alleging a violation of
policy and/or public interest. The internal Access to Information Committee serves as the first level of appeals, and its decisions are final for
appeals alleging a public interest ground. The external and independent
Access to Information Appeals Board serves as the second and final
recourse for appeals alleging a violation of policy.
In fiscal 2021, the Bank received 582 information requests, 80 percent of which were handled within 20 business days. The Committee
decided 12 cases, and three appeals were filed before the Board.
For more information and to submit public access requests for
information to the World Bank, visit www.worldbank.org/en
/access-to-information.

	

PROVIDING OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY 	

101

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

Deploying Resources Strategically
Defining our engagement with countries
The Bank Group has a systematic, evidence-based model for providing financial,
analytical, and advisory services to countries, focusing on strong country ownership and good development outcomes. The Country Partnership Framework (CPF)
guides the Bank Group’s support to a country over a four- to six-year period, while
retaining flexibility amid rapidly changing global and national circumstances. It is the
central tool for management and the Board when reviewing and guiding our country
programs. The Bank, IFC, and MIGA jointly prepare and implement the CPFs by:
•	 Taking into account the country’s development goals.
•	 Drawing on the Systematic Country Diagnostic (SCD), prepared in close consultation with national authorities, the private sector, and other stakeholders.
•	 Considering the Bank Group’s comparative advantage, lessons learned, and
other partners’ activities.
•	 Aligning with the Bank Group’s goals and the Bank’s commitments from our
capital increase in 2018.
Since fiscal 2019, CPFs for countries whose gross national income per capita makes
them eligible to graduate from IBRD incorporate the policy commitments made
under the capital increase. In consultation with the borrowing country, IBRD activities focus on interventions to strengthen policies and institutions for sustainable
graduation from IBRD. Complementary IFC investments help provide critical services not available on the market.
The CPF includes a results framework of agreed outputs and outcomes for activities that are under implementation or planned. A Performance and Learning Review
assesses the country program after two years or at the midterm of CPF implementation. At the conclusion of each CPF, the Bank Group performs a Completion and
Learning Review, which informs the preparation of the next country program. This
process has been in place since July 2014. As countries move into the next cycle
of engagement, “second-generation” SCDs (all subsequent SCDs following the first
one prepared for a country) are prepared. In fiscal 2021, the Bank Group prepared
SCDs in eight countries and new CPFs in nine countries. Amid the pandemic, the
preparation of most CPFs has been suspended until it is possible to articulate a new
program. The Bank Group continues to support countries through strong lending
and analytical programs to support the crisis response and inform recovery as well
as strengthen the foundational and analytical basis for SCDs and CPFs. Under our
new Climate Change Action Plan, we also introduced new Country Climate and
Development Reports as part of our core country-level analytical products.
During the pandemic, we have adjusted country programs to help countries
respond to the crisis and prepare for recovery, while maintaining a strong focus on
the long-term development agenda. This work aligns with the four pillars of the Bank
Group’s COVID-19 Crisis Response Approach Paper. Adjustments include portfolio
actions, reallocation of approved funds to higher-priority activities, new or additional financing, and frontloading of crisis relief in the operations pipeline. CPFs and
Country Engagement Notes that were under preparation have been refocused to
reflect the impacts of COVID-19.

102	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

The Bank offers a variety of instruments and
approaches to help countries achieve their development goals. These include Investment Project
Financing (IPF), which helps build physical and social
infrastructure and develop institutional capacity; Development Policy Financing (DPF), which supports policy
and institutional reforms, including through guarantees;
and Program-for-Results Financing (PforR), which links
the disbursement of funds to the achievement of predefined
results. In fiscal 2021, we revised guidance to explicitly incorporate considerations
of race and race-based discrimination or exclusion into operations across all our
lending instruments.
The Bank Group has used the full suite of instruments to support countries’
responses to the pandemic. IPFs were used to strengthen the health response as
the pandemic unfolded, initially focusing on testing and health equipment and later
the acquisition and deployment of vaccines. DPFs were mobilized to support institutional and policy measures for crisis response and recovery, supporting reforms in
health, social protection, fiscal and debt management, business regulations, public
administration, education, environment, rural development, and labor. In support of
key development goals, 97 percent of DPFs approved in fiscal 2021 have at least one
prior action that contributes to climate adaptation or mitigation, and 70 percent of
DPFs contribute to narrowing gender gaps.
The PforR instrument has had a strong impact since its introduction in 2012.
With the removal of the cap on PforR commitments, effective fiscal 2020, it was
mainstreamed across the Bank. In fiscal 2021, 30 PforR operations totaling $9.5
billion were approved; 81 percent of these contribute to narrowing gender gaps and
93 percent contribute to climate adaptation or mitigation. We continue to refine our
use of results-based financing in IPF projects to strengthen outcomes.
The Multiphase Programmatic Approach (MPA), introduced in fiscal 2018,
allows countries to structure complex engagements as a set of linked operations
or phases under one program. In fiscal 2020, the Bank applied the approach globally for the first time, which enabled rapid mobilization of IDA and IBRD financing to
respond to the COVID-19 emergency. In fiscal 2021, the COVID-19 Health Strategic
Preparedness and Response Program made up to $18 billion available for countries
to support their emergency response, acquire and deploy vaccines, and strengthen
health systems.

Support to small states
Small states (countries with a population of 1.5 million or less) face unique development challenges owing to their small population and economic base, which make
them particularly vulnerable to exogenous shocks, natural disasters, and climate
change. They have been among the countries hardest hit by COVID-19. In fiscal
2021, the Bank Group provided financial support to 23 small states, amounting to
$1.1 billion; $893 million of this supported the response to COVID-19.
In addition to crisis response financing and operational support, we help address
these countries’ distinct challenges through the Small States Forum, a platform for
high-level dialogue among the 50 member countries that convenes at the Annual
and Spring Meetings. In fiscal 2021, members called on the international community to recognize the pandemic’s heavier impact on small states, especially island
economies relying on tourism. They also urged a strong IDA20 replenishment to
ensure adequate support for immediate crisis response and their countries’ longterm recovery.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/smallstates.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

103

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

Providing countries with technical advice and analysis for
development outcomes
Bank Group advisory services and analytics (ASAs) enable countries to implement
better policies and strategies and strengthen their institutions so that they can sustain development gains over the long term. At the country level, this work underpins
our SCDs and CPFs, government programs, and projects supported by Bank financing. At the regional and global levels, it helps inform solutions for development in
the form of global public goods, good practice notes, toolkits, and capacity building.
In fiscal 2021, the Bank produced 1,357 ASA products in over 135 countries. These
addressed key topics such as economic policy, human development, social protection, governance, urban and rural development, and climate and the environment.
They included real-time analysis of the COVID-19 crisis, as well as ways to help
countries rebuild better and achieve broad-based recovery.
Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS) are requested and paid for by country
clients; all member states are eligible to request these services, including nonborrowing countries. In fiscal 2021, we produced 100 RAS products for 28 countries. These provided technical assistance, capacity building, and implementation
support to countries on various topics, including public financial management, productivity, investment climate, integrated value chains in agriculture, urban development, social development, public transport, and early childhood development.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/asa.

Valuing the opinions of country stakeholders
The World Bank Group Country Opinion Survey Program annually
assesses the views of thousands of decision makers and influencers
across borrowing countries. In fiscal 2021, we surveyed stakeholders in
47 countries. The data suggest that their leading concerns include education, governance, jobs, anti-corruption, and agriculture.

Maintaining budget discipline to maximize the use of
financial resources
To help countries cope with the devastating impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic
and promote a green, resilient, and inclusive recovery, the Bank reoriented our analytical work and dramatically scaled up our financial assistance while maintaining
our focus on the IDA special themes and corporate policy commitments. We are
addressing the resulting budgetary pressures by adopting a dynamic and flexible
planning and budgeting process so that we can shift resources to where they are
needed most as well as strengthen the Bank’s financial capacity.
In fiscal 2021, as part of the IBRD capital increase package agreed in 2018, we
continued to achieve efficiencies, economies of scale, and productivity improvements to maximize the use of our resources, maintain budget sustainability, and
strengthen our financial position. Ongoing measures to improve efficiency and
productivity—such as optimizing organizational processes and using technology
more effectively—will help contain some of the rising costs as we deliver a growing
and more complex work program. We also established a comprehensive monitoring framework for the implementation of budget commitments under the capital
package so that we can track cumulative efficiencies and economies of scale on a
yearly basis.
104	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

IBRD financial commitments and services
IBRD is a global development cooperative owned by its 189 member countries.
As the largest multilateral development bank in the world, it provides loans, guarantees, risk management products, and advisory services to middle-income and
­creditworthy low-income countries, and coordinates responses to regional and
global challenges.
In fiscal 2021, new IBRD lending commitments amounted to $30.5 billion for 125
operations, of which seven were IBRD and IDA blended operations.

TABLE 18 IBRD COMMITMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

Eastern and Southern Africa
Western and Central Africa

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

596

470

315

1,716

1,525

567

650

505

9

500

East Asia and Pacific

4,404

3,981

4,030

4,770

6,753

Europe and Central Asia

4,569

3,550

3,749

5,699

4,559

Latin America and the Caribbean

5,373

3,898

5,709

6,798

9,464

Middle East and North Africa

4,869

5,945

4,872

3,419

3,976

South Asia

2,233

4,508

4,011

5,565

3,746

22,611

23,002

23,191

27,976

30,523

Total

Note: Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year.

TABLE 19 IBRD DISBURSEMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

325

Eastern and Southern Africa

257

210

159

932

Western and Central Africa

170

524

531

155

132

3,961

3,476

5,048

4,679

4,439
3,625

East Asia and Pacific
Europe and Central Asia

2,799

4,134

2,209

3,100

Latin America and the Caribbean

3,885

4,066

4,847

5,799

8,741

Middle East and North Africa

5,335

3,281

4,790

2,415

2,764

South Asia
Total

1,454

1,698

2,598

3,158

3,665

17,861

17,389

20,182

20,238

23,691

Note: Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year.

For monitoring, reporting, and better decision making about its commitments,
the Bank applies a taxonomy of codes to all lending operations to reflect the sectors
and themes to which it directs resources. Sector codes reflect high-level groupings
of economic activities based on the types of goods and services produced and are
used to indicate which part of the economy is supported by the Bank’s intervention.
Theme codes reflect the goals and objectives of Bank-supported activities and are
used to capture the Bank’s support to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

105

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

TABLE 20 IBRD COMMITMENTS BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
SECTOR

FY17

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

754

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

2,561

1,025

1,767

1,260

Education

1,074

1,685

1,875

1,135

2,017

Energy and Extractives

4,434

3,084

2,847

2,053

2,379

Financial Sector

1,879

764

2,299

3,702

3,828

Health

1,189

2,204

1,674

3,980

2,606

Industry, Trade, and Services

2,694

3,416

2,361

2,208

3,030

503

324

611

886

773

4,754

2,189

5,327

4,301

5,666

778

2,091

2,115

4,786

4,800

Information and Communications
 Technologies
Public Administration
Social Protection
Transportation

2,551

2,074

1,485

1,323

2,273

Water, Sanitation, and Waste
 Management

2,000

2,610

1,571

1,834

1,891

Total

22,611

23,002

23,191

27,976

30,523

Note: Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year. Numbers
may not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector categories have replaced the previous
taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal year data reported here have been
revised to reflect the new categories and therefore may not match figures published in previous annual reports.
Visit projects.worldbank.org/sector for more information on changes.

TABLE 21 IBRD COMMITMENTS BY THEME, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

Economic Policy

1,677

1,124

1,363

1,000

2,194

Environment and Natural Resources
 Management

7,237

10,409

8,514

9,423

10,902

Finance

3,330

2,501

3,546

5,304

6,408

Human Development and Gender

2,687

6,641

7,227

12,799

21,928

Private Sector Development

5,741

4,945

4,438

4,936

6,616

Public Sector Management

3,516

1,353

2,912

3,206

3,682

939

2,844

2,453

4,721

5,603

5,937

8,593

6,511

6,777

7,945

Social Development and Protection
Urban and Rural Development

Note: Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year. As of fiscal 2017,
new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort.
Because lending commitments for individual operations can be applied to multiple theme categories, figures
organized by theme do not add up to fiscal year commitment totals, and therefore should not be summed. Past
fiscal year theme data have been remapped but not revised according to the new methodology. As they are no
longer directly comparable, historical data are not included here. Visit projects.worldbank.org/theme for more
information on changes.

TABLE 22 IBRD TOP COUNTRY BORROWERS, FISCAL 2021
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
COUNTRY

COMMITMENTS

COUNTRY

COMMITMENTS

Philippines

3,068

Turkey

1,500

India

2,648

Colombia

1,350

Indonesia

2,200

Brazil

1,325

Morocco

1,800

Argentina

1,242

Mexico

1,725

China

1,230

106	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

IBRD financial resources and financial model
IBRD finances its loans from its own equity and from money borrowed in the capital
markets through the issuance of IBRD bonds to fund development projects in member countries. IBRD is rated Aaa by Moody’s and AAA by Standard & Poor’s, and
investors view its bonds as high-quality securities. Against the backdrop of a global
liquidity crisis and the challenges presented by COVID-19, IBRD’s funding approach
is aimed at achieving the best long-term value on a sustainable basis for borrowing
members. IBRD’s ability to intermediate the funds it raises in international capital
markets to developing member countries is important in helping achieve its goals.
All IBRD bonds support sustainable development. IBRD issues its securities
through both global offerings and bond issues tailored to the needs of specific
markets or investor types. Its bonds connect the private and public sectors to the
Bank’s development goals through investors such as asset managers, insurance
companies, pension funds, central banks, corporations, and bank treasuries from
around the world. IBRD issues bonds to investors in various currencies, maturities,
and markets, and at fixed and variable terms. It often opens new markets for international investors by issuing new products or bonds in emerging market currencies.
IBRD’s annual funding volumes vary from year to year.
IBRD’s approach has enabled it to borrow at favorable market terms and pass
the savings on to its borrowing members. Funds not immediately deployed for lending are held in IBRD’s investment portfolio to provide liquidity for its operations. In
fiscal 2021, IBRD raised $68 billion by issuing bonds in a variety of currencies.
As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn
enough income to ensure the long-term financial capacity necessary to sustain its
development activities. Of fiscal 2021 allocable net income, the Executive Directors
approved the allocation of $874 million to the General Reserve and recommended
to the Board of Governors the transfer of $274 million to IDA and of $100 million
to the Surplus. As part of its lending, borrowing, and investment activities, IBRD is
exposed to market, counterparty, country credit, and operational risks.
The Bank Group’s Chief Risk Officer leads the risk oversight function and supports the institutional decision making process via dedicated risk committees. In
addition, IBRD has put in place a strong risk management framework, which supports management in its oversight functions. The framework is designed to enable
and support IBRD in achieving its goals in a financially sustainable manner. One
summary measure of IBRD’s risk profile is the ratio of equity to loans, which is
closely managed in line with its financial and risk outlook. As of June 30, 2021, this
ratio stood at 22.6 percent, and the cumulative subscribed capital of IBRD totaled
$297.9 billion, including $19.2 billion in paid-in capital.
FIGURE 9 IBRD BUSINESS MODEL

Investments

IDA and trust funds

Loans
Income

Borrowings

Equity

Other development activities

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

107

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

TABLE 23 IBRD KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS, WHICH ARE IN PERCENTAGES

Lending highlights
Commitmentsa
Gross disbursementsb
Net disbursementsb
Reported basis
Income statements
Board of Governors-approved
 and other transfers
Net income/(loss)

Balance sheet
Total assets
Net investment portfolio
Net loans outstanding
Borrowing portfolioc
Allocable income
Allocable income
Allocated as follows:
 General Reserved
 International Development
  Association
 Surplus
Usable equity f,g
Capital adequacy
Equity-to-loans ratio (%)

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

22,611
17,861
8,731

23,002
17,389
5,638

23,191
20,182
10,091

27,976
20,238
10,622

30,523
23,691
13,590

(497)
(237)

(178)
698

(338)
505

(340)
(42)

(411)
2,039

258,648
71,667
177,422
207,144

263,800
73,492
183,588
213,652

283,031
81,127
192,752
228,763

296,804
82,485
202,158
237,231

317,301
85,831
218,799
253,656

795

1,161

1,190

1,381

1,248

672
123

913
248

831
259

950
—

874
274

—

—

100

431e

41,720

43,518

45,360

47,138

49,997

22.8

22.9

22.8

22.8

22.6

100

Note: For a complete presentation of fiscal year data, see the full financial statements:
www.worldbank.org/financialresults.
a.	Amounts include guarantee commitments and guarantee facilities that have been approved by the Executive
Directors and are net of full terminations and cancellations relating to commitments approved in the same
fiscal year.
b.	 Amounts include transactions with the IFC and loan origination fees.
c.	 Includes associated derivatives.
d.	The June 30, 2021 amount represents the transfer to the General Reserve from fiscal 2021 net income, which
was approved by the Board on August 5, 2021.
e.	 On January 25, 2021, the Board of Governors approved a transfer of $331 million to IDA from Surplus, which
was made on February 1, 2021.
f.	Excludes amounts associated with unrealized mark-to-market gains/losses on non-trading portfolios, net
and related cumulative translation adjustments.
g.	Usable equity includes the transfer to the General Reserve from fiscal 2021 net income, which was approved
by the Board on August 5, 2021.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/ibrd.

IDA financial commitments and services
IDA is the world’s largest multilateral source of concessional financing for the
poorest countries. It provides financing in the form of development loans, grants,
and guarantees to help these countries increase economic growth, reduce poverty,
and improve living conditions for the poor.
Fiscal 2021 marked the start of the IDA19 cycle. In fiscal 2021, 74 countries
were eligible for IDA assistance, with Sudan becoming active during the fiscal year
after clearing its arrears. New IDA lending commitments for the year amounted to
$36.0 billion for 297 operations, of which seven were IBRD and IDA blended operations. These commitments included $23.9 billion in credits and $12.1 billion in
grants. In addition, 23 projects and sub-projects, for a total of $595 million, were
approved for support from the IDA19 IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window (PSW)
during the fiscal year.
108	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

TABLE 24 IDA COMMITMENTS BY REGION, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

Eastern and Southern Africa

5,612

8,067

7,512

9,581

14,089

Western and Central Africa

5,067

7,344

6,675

9,514

10,955

East Asia and Pacific

2,703

631

1,272

2,500

1,115

Europe and Central Asia

739

957

583

1,497

1,315

Latin America and the Caribbean

503

428

430

978

769

Middle East and North Africa
South Asia
Total

1,011

430

611

203

658

3,828

6,153

4,849

6,092

7,127

19,463a

24,010b

21,932b

30,365b

36,028b

Note: Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year.
a.	 Figure does not include the commitment of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.
b.	 Excludes IFC-MIGA PSW activities.

TABLE 25 IDA DISBURSEMENTS BY REGION, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

Eastern and Southern Africa

3,907

4,695

6,168

7,904

8,081

Western and Central Africa

2,716

3,511

4,022

5,469

6,045

East Asia and Pacific

1,145

1,252

1,282

1,589

1,297

Europe and Central Asia

310

298

931

365

880

Latin America and the Caribbean

229

223

340

466

495

Middle East and North Africa
South Asia
Total

391

569

647

151

379

3,970

3,835

4,159

5,235

5,744

12,668a

14,383

17,549

21,179b

22,921b

Note: Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year.
a.	 Figure does not include the disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.
b.	 Excludes IFC-MIGA PSW activities.

TABLE 26 IDA COMMITMENTS BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
SECTOR

FY17a

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

2,025

1,442

2,796

1,978

2,912

1,773

2,836

1,767

4,037

3,585
3,801

Education
Energy and Extractives

1,891

4,028

3,468

3,218

Financial Sector

1,227

546

870

534

1,910

Health

1,246

2,062

1,736

4,295

3,840

Industry, Trade, and Services

1,541

1,991

1,963

2,712

2,174

519

419

779

1,202

1,151

Public Administration

1,954

5,013

3,109

4,252

5,572

Social Protection

1,913

2,112

2,163

4,185

6,352

Information and Communications
 Technologies

Transportation

3,271

1,455

1,709

2,132

2,367

Water, Sanitation, and Waste
 Management

2,102

2,105

1,572

1,820

2,365

24,010b

21,932b

30,365b

Total

19,463

36,028

Note: Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year. Numbers may
not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector categories have replaced the previous
taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal year data reported here have been revised
to reflect the new categories and therefore may not match figures published in previous annual reports.
Visit projects.worldbank.org/sector for more information on changes.
a.	 Fiscal 2017 IDA sector breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.
b.	 Excludes IFC-MIGA PSW activities.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

109

-----------------------Page 113 End-----------------------

For monitoring, reporting, and better decision making about its commitments,
the Bank applies a taxonomy of codes to all lending operations to reflect the sectors
and themes to which it directs resources. Sector codes reflect high-level groupings
of economic activities based on the types of goods and services produced; these
are used to indicate which part of the economy is supported by the Bank’s intervention. Theme codes reflect the goals and objectives of Bank-supported activities and
are used to capture our support to the SDGs.
TABLE 27 IDA COMMITMENTS BY THEME, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME

FY17a

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

Economic Policy

1,791

468

1,073

1,192

1,972

Environment and Natural Resources
  Management

5,766

9,491

9,680

11,141

13,019

Finance

1,507

1,642

2,418

2,680

6,161

Human Development and Gender

6,471

7,509

7,860

15,974

26,353

Private Sector Development

4,837

4,240b

5,145b

7,232b

8,523

Public Sector Management

1,936

3,827

2,513

4,158

4,698

Social Development and Protection

2,544

2,980

2,722

4,738

8,114

Urban and Rural Development

8,352

8,654

7,866

8,899

11,647

Note: Amounts are net of full terminations and cancellations approved in the same fiscal year. As of fiscal 2017,
new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort.
Because lending commitments for individual operations can be applied to multiple theme categories, figures
organized by theme do not add up to fiscal year commitment totals, and therefore should not be summed. Past
fiscal year theme data have been remapped but not revised according to the new methodology. As they are no
longer directly comparable, historical data are not included here. Visit projects.worldbank.org/theme for more
information on changes.
a.	 Fiscal 2017 IDA theme breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.
b.	 Excludes IFC-MIGA PSW activities.

TABLE 28 IDA TOP COUNTRY BORROWERS, FISCAL 2021
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
COUNTRY

Nigeria

COMMITMENTS

2,875

Pakistan

2,692

Ethiopia

2,505

Bangladesh

2,310

Sudan

1,885

COUNTRY

Kenya
Congo, Democratic
 Republic of
Mozambique
Tanzania
Niger

COMMITMENTS

1,830
1,450
1,368
1,142
1,058

IDA financial resources and financial model
IDA is primarily funded by contributions from high- and middle-income partner
countries, transfers from other Bank Group institutions, borrowers’ repayments of
earlier IDA credits, and funding raised in the capital markets. In 2016, IDA received
its first-ever public credit rating—triple-A—which has been reaffirmed by rating
agencies annually since then. IDA’s financial strength is based on its robust capital
position and shareholder support, as well as on its prudent financial policies and
practices, including a capital adequacy framework, which help maintain its triple-A
credit rating. IDA shares the same risk management governance as IBRD.
IDA uses this funding to support an ambitious policy package with five special
themes and several cross-cutting issues, which are adjusted for each replenishment cycle. For IDA19 (which covers fiscal 2021 and 2022), these themes are jobs
and economic transformation; climate change; gender and development; fragility,
conflict, and violence; and governance and institutions. Foundational cross-cutting
areas include debt, human capital, technology, and disability.
110	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 114 End-----------------------

Equity

Concessional lending
and grants

Investments
Borrowings

Non-concessional lending

Reflows and operating results

FIGURE 10 IDA BUSINESS MODEL

For IDA19, development partners agreed to a financing envelope of $82 billion
(equivalent to SDR 59.3 billion)1 to provide credits, grants, and guarantees to IDA’s
client countries. Of this, $73.8 billion was expected to be used on concessional
terms, $5.7 billion on IBRD terms for the Scale-Up Window, and $2.5 billion for the
PSW. To help countries address the health, economic, and social impacts of the
COVID-19 crisis, we allocated 43 percent of IDA19 resources in fiscal 2021. This was
followed by an agreement to frontload resources from fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2022
to sustain the scale of financing at $35 billion for both fiscal 2021 and 2022. As of
June 30, 2021, $34.3 billion was committed on concessional terms, $1.8 billion on
non-concessional terms including $1.4 billion for the Scale-Up Window, and $595
million for the PSW. IDA administrative expenses are recovered primarily through
net charges and interest paid by recipient countries.
Supporting IDA19 were $23.5 billion (equivalent to SDR 17 billion) in grants from
IDA’s donors, of which $0.2 billion is the grant element from concessional partner
loan contributions. Partners are also providing $0.9 billion in concessional partner
loans—$0.6 billion, excluding the grant element—and $3.9 billion in compensation
for debt relief under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) during IDA19. As
of June 30, 2021, 44 partners had submitted IDA19 Instruments of Commitment
(IoCs). Total IoCs deposited to date amount to $22.1 billion, representing 94 percent
of the total pledge amount. IDA’s borrowing program enables it to significantly scale
up its support for achieving the SDGs, while offering investors an efficient way to
contribute to global development. Under IDA19, this optimization of capital enables
IDA to mobilize more than three dollars in IDA commitment authority for every dollar contributed by development partners. Since its inaugural bond in international
capital markets on April 17, 2018, IDA has issued the equivalent of about $16 billion
in euro, British pounds, Swedish kronor, and U.S. dollars. IDA continues to broaden
its investor base and raise liquidity in various currencies from a diverse set of
investors. We will continue to seek opportunities to further diversify IDA’s currency
composition and develop its capital markets presence.

The Financing Framework for the IDA19 Replenishment is managed predominantly in Special
Drawing Rights (SDRs). U.S. dollar equivalent figures given here are calculated using IDA19
reference exchange rates.

1

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

111

-----------------------Page 115 End-----------------------

TABLE 29 IDA KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2017–21
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS, WHICH ARE IN PERCENTAGES
FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY21

Net commitmentsa

19,513b

24,010c

21,932c

30,365c

36,028c

Gross disbursements

12,718b

14,383

17,549

21,179c

22,921c

8,154

9,290

12,221

15,112

16,465c

173,357

184,666

188,553

199,472

219,324

Loans, grants, and guarantees

Net disbursements

c

Balance sheet
Total assets
Net investment portfolio
Net loans outstanding
Borrowing portfoliod
Total equity

29,673

33,735

32,443

35,571

37,921

138,351

145,656

151,921

160,961

177,779

3,660

7,318

10,149

19,653

28,335

158,476

163,945

162,982

168,171

180,876

1,521

1,647

1,702

1,843

1,996

599

203

258

252

544

Income statement
Interest revenue, net of
 borrowing expenses
Transfers from affiliated
 organizations and others
Development grants

(2,577)

(4,969)

(7,694)

(1,475)

(2,830)

Net loss

(2,296)

(5,231)

(6,650)

(1,114)

(433)

(158)

(391)

225

724

394

35.3%

35.8%

30.4%

Adjusted net income
Capital adequacy
Deployable strategic capital ratio

37.2%

37.4%

Note: For a complete presentation of fiscal year data, see the full financial statements:
www.worldbank.org/financialresults.
a.	 Commitments that have been approved by the Executive Directors and are net of full terminations and
cancellations relating to commitments approved in the same fiscal year.
b.	 Figures include the commitment and disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency
Financing Facility.
c.	 Commitments, gross disbursements, and net disbursements exclude IFC-MIGA PSW activities.
d.	 Includes associated derivatives.

IDA20 Replenishment
Typically, IDA partners meet every three years to review IDA’s policies, assess its
financial capacity, agree on the amount of financing for the next replenishment
period, and commit to additional contributions of equity that are required to meet
IDA’s objectives and development goals. The replenishment process for IDA19, originally set to cover fiscal 2021–23, was finalized in December 2019, with implementation beginning in fiscal 2021.
Given the scope and scale of IDA’s response to the COVID-19 crisis, as well as
ongoing efforts to address long-term development needs, some IDA19 resources
have been frontloaded from fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2022, allowing for a planning envelope of $35 billion per year in both fiscal 2021 and 2022. In light of these extraordinary circumstances and IDA countries’ elevated financing needs, IDA partners
agreed to start discussions for the IDA20 replenishment (covering fiscal 2023 to
2025) in fiscal 2021, with the aim of finalizing the process by December 2021.

112	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

-----------------------Page 116 End-----------------------

The IDA20 replenishment will be informed by IDA19 progress, as well as the
Bank’s mission and COVID-19 response. In April 2021 at the first IDA20 Replenishment Meeting, donor and borrower representatives agreed on the overarching
theme, “Building Back Better from the Crisis: Towards a Green, Resilient, and Inclusive Future.” IDA20’s policy framework will maintain the four IDA19 special themes
of climate change; fragility, conflict, and violence; gender and development; and
jobs and economic transformation. It will introduce human capital as the fifth special theme. IDA20 will also help deepen recovery efforts by focusing on four crosscutting issues: crisis preparedness, which has been newly introduced for IDA20;
debt sustainability and transparency; governance and institutions; and technology.
As the IDA20 replenishment unfolds, the Bank is engaging with civil society through
a series of IDA Forums—held during the Spring and Annual Meetings—where civil
society organizations can share feedback before a public consultation ahead of the
IDA20 pledging meeting in December 2021.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/ida.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

113

-----------------------Page 117 End-----------------------

Committed to Results
The World Bank helps to promote sustainable development in partner countries by providing
financing, sharing knowledge, and working with the public and private sectors. Delivering
integrated solutions to help countries address their development challenges requires a
focus on results. In recent years, the Bank has made important contributions across many
areas to support development results achieved by its partner countries.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/results.

1 	 Argentina: In 2019, improvements to

the bus rapid transit system in Buenos
Aires resulted in travel times decreasing by 53 percent and overall travel
speeds increasing by more than 100
percent.

9 	 Grenada: Between 2016 and 2020,

the share of the country’s territory
covered as marine protected area
increased from 3 to 20 percent.

10 	 India: Between 2008 and 2020,

more than 12 million women in rural
areas organized into self-help groups
that gave them better access to
finance, markets, health services,
and nutrition.

2 	 Bangladesh:
Between 2012 and 2020,


more than 7 million people in rural
areas gained access to clean and
renewable energy.

3 	 Benin: Between 2009 and 2018, about

25,000 new households received gas
cooking equipment and better
cookstoves.

11 	 Iraq: Since 2015, about a million

people have regained access to
municipal services as damaged
equipment was replaced, including
purification and wastewater treatment
plants as well as water and sewage
pipes, and over 500,000 people have
regained access to electricity.

4 	
Bulgaria: From 2012 to 2018, improve-

ments in water supply and sanitation
led to 99 percent of people obtaining
access to piped water, wastewater
collection reaching nearly 80 percent
of people, and wastewater treatment
reaching around 70 percent.

12 	 Liberia: By 2021, over 14,000 youth,

half of them women, received skills
and business training, agricultural
tools, and labor subsidies to engage in
communal farming.

5 	 China: Between 2013 and 2018, nearly

70 buildings were retrofitted with
low-carbon technologies, reducing
carbon emissions by nearly 190,000
tons a year.

13 	 Madagascar: Between 2018 and

2020, 150,000 children were vaccinated against major diseases; nearly
500,000 women and children received
nutrition services; more than 3,000
community health and nutrition
sites were established; and about
500 primary health facilities were
strengthened.

6 	 Colombia: Between 2012 and 2017,

400,000 students were able to access
tertiary education, while the proportion
of students from disadvantaged
backgrounds increased from 58 to
64 percent, more than half of them
women.

14 	 Malawi: Between 2011 and 2018, the

percentage of adults using financial
institutions rose from 19 to 40
percent, and the proportion of women
with access to formal banking
increased from 17 to 39 percent.

7 	 Egypt: Between 2014 and 2019, over

170,000 entrepreneurs accessed
micro- and small loans, resulting in the
creation of more than 300,000 jobs.

8 	 Ghana: Between 2014 and 2019,

around 568,000 children were able to
access secondary education, while
over 20,000 children, 60 percent of
them girls, received scholarships.

114	

15 	 Moldova: Between 2015 and 2020,

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2021

modernization of district heating systems reduced carbon emissions by
an estimated 8,200 tons a year, and
better heat and domestic hot water
supply reached more than 125,000
people.

-----------------------Page 118 End-----------------------

Countries with active
IBRD or IDA operations
(as of June 30, 2021)
Note: Areas shaded in gray represent no active IBRD or IDA project,
ineligible,
no data.Data
theactive
IBRD/IDA
Note:
Areasorshaded
in grayrepresents
represent no
IBRDactive
or IDA project,
portfolio asorofno
June
30,
2021.
ineligible,
data.
Data
represents the IBRD/IDA active
portfolio as of June 30, 2021.

Russian Federation

Russian Fed.

Poland Belarus
Ukraine
Moldova
Romania
Bulgaria

4

Georgia
Armenia Azerbaijan
Turkey

11

Tunisia

Lebanon
West Bank and Gaza
Jordan
Arab Rep. of
Egypt

Morocco

Kazakhstan

15

I. R. of
Iran

Iraq

27

Mongolia

Kyrgyz
Uzbekistan Rep.
Tajikistan

Pakistan

19

Senegal
The Gambia
Guinea-Bissau
Guinea

ZERBAIJAN BANGLADESH
ERZEGOVINA BOTSWANA
CAMBODIA CAMEROON
BIA COMOROS
COSTA RICA CÔTE
BLIC ECUADOR ARAB
JI GABON THE GAMBIA
BISSAU GUYANA HAITI
ZAKHSTAN KENYA
OCRATIC REPUBLIC
DIVES MALI MARSHALL
CRONESIA MOLDOVA
NMAR NEPAL NICARAGUA
APUA NEW GUINEA
N FEDERATION RWANDA
HELLES SIERRA LEONE
DAN SRI LANKA ST. LUCIA
AN TANZANIA
ANDA UKRAINE URUGUAY
MBIA ZIMBABWE
ZERBAIJAN BANGLADESH
ERZEGOVINA BOTSWANA
CAMBODIA CAMEROON
BIA COMOROS
Costa Rica

Guyana
Suriname

Panama Colombia

6

Sierra Leone
Liberia

Ecuador

Peru

12

Burkina
Faso

3

Central
South
African Rep. Sudan
Cameroon

Ghana
Togo
Benin

Gabon Rep. of
Congo

Equatorial Guinea
São Tomé and Príncipe

1

16 	 Montenegro: Between 2009 and 2019,

more than 6,000 people, including about
1,000 women, accessed better agricultural services, and sustainable land
management practices were adopted for
more than 2,000 hectares of land.

17 	 Nepal: Following the earthquake in 2015,

nearly 240,000 people received housing
grants and technical assistance to rebuild
safe houses.

18 	 Niger: Between 2018 and 2020, 4 million

women and children received access to
reproductive health and nutrition services,
and 900,000 infants were immunized
against measles.

19 	 Pakistan: Since 2009, nearly 5 million

women have received cash transfers for
their families, enhancing their access
to identification, financial inclusion, and
decision making power.

Sri
Lanka

Somalia

Marshall Islands

Federated States
of Micronesia

21
Palau

Nauru
Papua
New
Guinea

Indonesia

Comoros

Timor-Leste

14

Kiribati
Kiribati

Solomon
Islands

24

Tuvalu
Samoa

Madagascar

Mozambique

Vanuatu

13

South
Africa

Tonga

Lesotho

Croatia

Serbia
Bosnia &
Herz.

23

Grenada

9

20 	 Paraguay: Between 2015 and 2019, the

social accountability program reached
88,000 extremely poor households,
improving their access to education,
health services, and nutrition.

21 	 Philippines: Between 2015 and 2021,

372,000 farmers and fisherfolk were able
to access agricultural assets and services,
helping increase their households’ average
income by 36 percent.

22 	 Rwanda: Between 2017 and 2019, the

percentage of young children with access
to nutritional supplements increased from
18 to 88 percent.

23 	 Serbia: Between 2014 and 2019, over

100,000 farmers in flood-affected areas
received critical income support through
grants, while 360,000 people accessed
better flood protection for their homes.

Fiji

Poland

St. Lucia

Trinidad
and Tobago

Philippines

Seychelles

Dominica

St. Vincent and
the Grenadines

26

Maldives

Eswatini
Antigua
and
Barbuda

Vietnam

Zambia Malawi
Zimbabwe

St. Maarten (Neth.)
St. Kitts
and Nevis

Lao
P.D.R.

Thailand
Cambodia

Uganda
Kenya

Rwanda
Dem. Rep. Burundi
of Congo
Tanzania

Botswana

Dominican
Republic

Uruguay

22

Angola

Paraguay

Argentina

28

Ethiopia

25

Bolivia

Chile

Chad

2

Djibouti

Brazil

20

Rep. of
Yemen

Sudan

Nigeria

Côte
d’Ivoire

8

18

Mali

Bangladesh
Myanmar

10

Niger

Ukraine

Belize Jamaica
Guatemala Honduras
El Salvador Nicaragua

Mauritania

Montenegro

16

Kosovo

Romania

Cabo
Verde

Bhutan

Bulgaria

Haiti

5

Nepal
India

7

Mexico

China

17

Afghanistan

Albania
North
Macedonia

24 	 Solomon Islands: Since 2018, over

3,700 infrastructure and service delivery
workers have been trained, more than
half of them women.

25 	 Tanzania: Between 2010 and 2019, the

housing finance market expanded sevenfold, providing 5,000 mortgages and
2,000 microfinance loans, with a third of
these going to women.

26 	 Vietnam: Between 2009 and 2018,

about 320 megawatts of new small
hydro-power capacity came online,
supplying an additional 1,260 gigawatt-hours of electricity annually, while
lower market barriers helped attract
$2 billion in private financing to further
expand hydropower capacity.

IBRD 43838 | AUGUST 2021

27 	 West Bank and Gaza: Between 2014

and 2018, over 2 million people accessed
better municipal services, such as
rehabilitated roads, wastewater
networks, solid waste collection facilities,
street lighting, public facilities, and public
parks.  

28 	 Yemen: Between 2016 and 2021,

nearly 423,000 people, nearly a quarter
of them women, accessed paid
employment.

-----------------------Page 119 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 120 End-----------------------

World Bank Annual Report 2021
Financial Statements incorporated by reference. The Management’s Discussion and Analysis
and Audited Financial Statements of IBRD and IDA (“Financial Statements”) shall be deemed to
be incorporated in and to form part of this Annual Report. The Financial Statements may be
accessed at http://www.worldbank.org/financialresults.
Additional IBRD and IDA financial, lending, and organizational information is available at:
http://www.worldbank.org/annualreport.
For more information on the World Bank, visit:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Finances One: https://financesapp.worldbank.org
Corporate Scorecard: http://scorecard.worldbank.org
World Bank Open Data: http://data.worldbank.org
Open Knowledge Repository: http://openknowledge.worldbank.org
World Bank Corporate Responsibility: http://www.worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility
World Bank Access to Information: http://www.worldbank.org/en/access-to-information

Production credits. The World Bank Annual Report 2021 was produced by the World Bank Group’s External and
Corporate Relations unit, under the direction of Nicole Frost in the Corporate Communications department, with
editorial coordination by Leslie Yun, Paul McClure, and Nadia Kanji. Design by Naylor Design, Inc. Typesetting by
BMWW. Translation by the World Bank’s Translation and Interpretation Services. Printing by Professional Graphics
Printing Co., a certified woman-owned minority business (Laurel, MD, USA).
Photography credits. Front Cover: Victor Idrogo/World Bank; 2: Victor Idrogo/World Bank; 4: Bart Verweij/
World Bank; 6: Grant Ellis/World Bank; 8–9: Grant Ellis/World Bank; 11: (Top to bottom) Mohamed Abihakim/
World Bank, Londo Project, Chadraabal Baramsai, Scott Wallace/World Bank, Jessica Belmont/World Bank, Arne
Hoel/World Bank, KM Asad/World Bank; 13: Arne Hoel/World Bank; 18: World Bank; 20: Andrea Borgarello/World
Bank; 23: Mohamed Abihakim/World Bank; 27: Vincent Tremeau/World Bank; 32: Chadraabal Baramsai; 37: Givi
Pirtskhalava/World Bank; 42: Victor Idrogo/World Bank; 47: Arne Hoel/World Bank; 52: Mehrin Mahbub/World
Bank; 54: Mirzobek Ibragimov/World Bank; 56: Henitsoa Rafalia/World Bank; 57: Mohamed Abihakim/World
Bank; 59: Simone D. McCourtie/World Bank; 62: Rama George-Alleyne/World Bank; 63: Victor Idrogo/Banco
Mundial; 67: Mohamed Azakir/World Bank; 70: Dominic Chavez/World Bank; 71: Simone D. McCourtie/World
Bank; 72: Lundrim Aliu/World Bank; 73: Do Duy Tung/World Bank; 74: Boris Balabanov/World Bank; 75: Ousmane
Traore/World Bank; 76: A’Melody Lee/World Bank; 77: Dominic Chavez/World Bank; 78: Dominic Chavez/World
Bank; 80: John Lyimo/World Bank; 84: Jessica Belmont/World Bank; 86: Aiden Glendinning/World Bank; 88:
Pavel Kondrashin/World Bank; 89: Nozim Kalandarov/World Bank; 91: Chor Sokunthea/World Bank; 98: GabrielaLeite Soares/World Bank; 103: Jessica Belmont/World Bank; Back Cover: Ousmane Traore/World Bank.
This publication follows recommended standards for paper use set by the Green Press Initiative. The paper
contains postconsumer fiber, is certified FSC® and EcoLogo, and is manufactured using renewable biogas energy
and elemental chlorine-free processing.
2021 International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development / The World Bank
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1000;
Internet: www.worldbank.org
Some rights reserved
1 2 3 4 24 23 22 21
This work is a product of the staff of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations, and other
information shown on any map in this work do not
imply any judgment on the part of The World Bank
concerning the legal status of any territory or the
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
Nothing herein shall constitute or be considered
to be a limitation upon or waiver of the privileges
and immunities of The World Bank, all of which are
specifically reserved.
Rights and Permissions
This work is available under the
Creative Commons Attribution–
NonCommercial–NoDerivatives
3.0 IGO license (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO) http://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/igo.
Under the Creative Commons–NonCommercial–
NoDerivatives license, you are free to copy, distribute,
and transmit this work, for noncommercial purposes
only, under the following conditions:

Attribution—Please cite the work as follows:
World Bank. 2021. World Bank Annual Report 2021.
Washington, DC: World Bank. doi: 10.1596/978-14648-1778-6. License: Creative Commons Attribution–
NonCommercial–NoDerivatives 3.0 IGO (CC BY-NCND 3.0 IGO).
Noncommercial—You may not use this work for
commercial purposes.
No Derivative Works—You may not alter, transform, or
build upon this work.
Third-party content—The World Bank does not
necessarily own each component of the content
contained within the work. The World Bank therefore
does not warrant that the use of any third-partyowned individual component or part contained
in the work will not infringe on the rights of those
third parties. The risk of claims resulting from such
infringement rests solely with you. If you wish to re-use
a component of the work, it is your responsibility to
determine whether permission is needed for that
re-use and to obtain permission from the copyright
owner. Examples of components can include, but are
not limited to, tables, figures, or images.
All queries on rights and licenses should be
addressed to World Bank Publications, The World
Bank Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail: pubrights@
worldbank.org.
ISBN: 978-1-4648-1778-6
eISBN: 978-1-4648-1779-3
doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-1778-6

-----------------------Page 121 End-----------------------

The World Bank comprises the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association
(IDA). The organization’s mission is to end extreme poverty and promote
shared prosperity in a sustainable way.
www.worldbank.org/annualreport

SKU: 211779

-----------------------Page 122 End-----------------------

