ANNUAL REPORT 2019

Ending Poverty,
Investing in Opportunity

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Contents
	 2	 Introduction
	 3	 Message from the President
	10	 Message from the Executive Directors
	12	 Message from the Chief Executive Officer of IBRD and IDA
	 17	 Regional Perspectives
	43	 Providing Sustainable Development Solutions for Our Clients
	59	 Developing Financial Tools for Global Impact
	 61	 Putting Knowledge to Work in Promoting Development
	64	 Strengthening Our Impact through Partnerships
	67	 Improving Our Operations for Development Impact
	70	 Our Values and Our People
	73	 Guiding the Institution
	74	 Ensuring Accountability and Transparency in Our Operations
	77	 Deploying Resources Strategically
	88	 Committed to Results
KEY TABLES
	82	 IBRD Key Financial Indicators, Fiscal 2015–19
	86	 IDA Key Financial Indicators, Fiscal 2015–19

This Annual Report, which covers the period from July 1, 2018, to June 30, 2019,
has been prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development
Association (IDA)—collectively known as the World Bank—in accordance with the
respective bylaws of the two institutions. David Malpass, President of the World
Bank Group and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors, has submitted
this report, together with the accompanying administrative budgets and audited
financial statements, to the Board of Governors.
Annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) are published separately.
Throughout the report, the term World Bank and the abbreviated Bank refer
only to IBRD and IDA; the term World Bank Group and the abbreviated Bank
Group refer to the collective work of IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA. All dollar amounts
used in this Annual Report are current U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified.
Funds allocated to multiregional projects are accounted for at the country
level in tables and text. Fiscal year commitments and disbursements data is in
accordance with the audited figures reported in the IBRD and IDA Financial
Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis documents for fiscal
2019. As a result of rounding, numbers in tables may not add to totals and
percentages in figures may not add to 100.

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

Human capital consists of the knowledge,
skills, and health that people accumulate
throughout their lives. It is a central driver of
sustainable growth and poverty reduction.

In 2018, the World Bank Group launched the Human Capital Project,
a global effort to accelerate more and better investments in people
for greater equity and economic growth.

Raise learning outcomes
and strengthen skills to
prepare people for jobs

Reduce stunting
and sharpen focus
on demographics

Human Capital

PEOPLE-DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT
Support domestic resource
mobilization, improved
system governance, and
service delivery

More than 60
countries* are
working with the
World Bank Group
to transform their
human capital
outcomes.

Increase engagement
in fragile contexts, with
a focus on young people

THREE PILLARS OF
THE HUMAN CAPITAL PROJECT

Scaling Up
Measurement
and Research

Human
Capital Index
quantifies
contribution of health
and education to the
productivity of the next
generation of workers

provides insights
into what works
and where to
target resources

Country
Engagement
helps countries tackle the
worst barriers to human
capital development,
using a whole-ofgovernment approach

*As of July 2019

HUMAN CAPITAL INVESTMENTS

#InvestInPeople

Bangladesh:

Yemen:

Providing basic
education and
training for 350,000
Rohingya children
through the IDA18
Refugee SubWindow

Ensuring essential
health services to
14 million people
through the
Emergency Health
and Nutrition
Project

Zambia:
Supporting
89,000 girls and
women through GEWEL,
a girl’s education
and women’s
empowerment
project

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

RESPECT
The mission of the World Bank Group centers on
two overarching goals:

I M PA C T
End extreme poverty by 2030 . . .

INTEGRITY
. . . by reducing the share of the global population
living on less than $1.90 a day.

TEAMWORK
Promote shared prosperity . . .

I N N O VAT I O N
. . . by increasing the incomes of the poorest
40 percent of people in every country.

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

As development challenges become increasingly complex,
the World Bank remains uniquely positioned to help countries find the solutions
they need to achieve sustainable and inclusive development.
Vital resources: With a diversified portfolio and the support of shareholders,
we can effectively leverage and mobilize capital to finance development efforts.
Combined with our engagement with the private sector, these resources help
ensure that our clients have access to the financing they need to achieve their
development aims.
Global experience: The World Bank’s experience at the local, national, and global
levels provides us with the depth and knowledge to apply best practices and
implement innovative and sustainable solutions for our client countries.
Multisectoral expertise: Few other institutions can cover the full breadth of
sectors and disciplines in development. Our expertise in areas as diverse as energy,
education, climate, and governance makes us a valuable partner for countries who
seek multilayered solutions to their development challenges.
Convening power: With our global reach and experience, the World Bank is able
to collaborate with and bring together diverse partners from around the world to
catalyze action on shared goals for greater development impact.

As a global development leader, the World Bank will
continue to promote innovative, effective, and sustainable ways to
work toward our goals of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared
prosperity.

2	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Message from the President

Our development mission is clear: to advance shared prosperity and end extreme
poverty. The challenges remain urgent. For many countries, poverty reduction has
slowed or even reversed, while investment and growth will not be enough to raise
living standards. Poorer countries face many challenges in achieving basic development gains, including severe deficits in clean water, electricity, health, education,
jobs and private sector competitiveness; barriers to the full inclusion of women in
economies and societies, alongside policies that too often favor elites rather than
creating work opportunities and support for those most in need; the urgency of
environmental and climate challenges; and the surge in debt that is not bringing
true benefits.
Economic growth has been the key engine of poverty reduction around the
world. However, in many countries, especially resource-based economies, the
­benefits of growth weren’t allowed to spread—growth helped increase average
incomes, yet it did not increase median incomes or lift the poorest 40 percent of
the population. With global growth slowing, median income growth is sluggish in
much of the world and declining in many poorer countries. In middle-income countries slower growth erodes the living standards of the middle class, with many joining the ranks of the poor. This adds to the challenges facing the 2030 Sustainable
Development Goals, and the key poverty reduction goal is at risk of not being met.
World Bank Group commitments to help countries achieve better development
outcomes were nearly $60 billion in the fiscal year that ended on June 30, 2019.
With weak investment prospects in many developing countries and recession risk
in Europe, it has become even more urgent for the Bank Group—IBRD, IDA, IFC, and
MIGA—to step up our effectiveness and impact.
Working together, these institutions have the tools to help address the challenges emerging around the world. The IBRD-IFC capital package, approved by
the Board of Governors in October 2018, will provide additional lending capacity
along with institutional and financial reforms designed to ensure IBRD’s long-term
financial sustainability. IBRD has further strengthened its financial management by
introducing a Financial Sustainability Framework, including a sustainable annual
lending limit. A strong IDA19 replenishment in December 2019 will extend our
ability to support good development outcomes
and better lives for the poorest people around
the world.
We are sharpening our focus on selective
and impactful country programs to improve
growth and development outcomes. IBRD commitments exceeded $23 billion this year. Commitments by IDA, which provides grants and
low-interest loans to the world’s 75 poorest
countries, were $22 billion, of which nearly
$8 billion were grants. Together, these Bank programs helped more countries come closer to
achieving their development priorities.
Demand for human capital investments continued to grow over the fiscal year—reflecting
the significant role this financing can play in promoting long-term inclusive growth and alleviating poverty. Over 60 percent of Bank operations
helped address gender gaps and encouraged
full incorporation of women in economies and

	

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 	

3

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

societies. Several once-closed societies are allowing welcome improvements in the
legal, economic, and social conditions for girls and women. Much more progress is
absolutely necessary.
The need for the rule of law and greater transparency is an increasingly accepted
development priority. In development finance, transparency in sovereign debt and
debt-like contracts is vital to improve the quality and profitable allocation of capital
and new investment.
For fiscal 2019, 31 percent of IBRD/IDA commitments contained climate
co-benefits, exceeding the Bank’s target of 28 percent by 2020. In December 2018,
the Bank announced a $200 billion five-year mobilization target to help countries
address climate challenges and put adaptation finance on a par with mitigation.
Our goal is for countries to achieve economic success and broad improvements
in living conditions. As they advance, our relationship with them should evolve so
that a growing share of our IBRD lending is available to countries in lower-income
thresholds. For example, China achieved major increases in GDP, median income,
and prosperity, so our interactions are becoming more technical as lending declines.
China’s policies are changing rapidly to improve global public goods, address
environmental and climate change problems, and reduce plastic and micro-plastic
in its rivers. China has evolved from a large-scale borrower to an important voice in
the development dialogue and a key contributor to IDA.
We are working in fragile areas, such as the Sahel and the Horn of Africa, to help
countries build stronger foundations so that young people are more able to stay
rather than seeking to migrate. IDA commitments to countries affected by fragility,
conflict, and violence reached $8 billion in fiscal 2019.
Many countries will need a much bolder agenda for boosting private sector
growth to generate more and better jobs. This entails major changes in the business climate so that the private sector can compete with the state on a level playing
field—critical for generating jobs, profit, and innovation.
The World Bank Group is increasing financing for economic and institutional
reforms to enhance private investment and job creation in developing countries.
As the largest global development institution focused on the private sector, IFC
creates markets and opportunities for sustainable private investment where they
are needed most. IFC is shifting its focus to working upstream to create a pipeline
of bankable projects that will increase private investment in the world’s poorest
countries. MIGA is the largest multilateral political risk insurance provider, with a
mandate of creating development impact by helping attract foreign direct investment to developing countries. Nearly 30 percent of MIGA’s guarantee program over
the fiscal year supported projects in IDA countries and fragile settings, and almost
two-thirds contributed to climate change adaptation or mitigation.
Across IBRD/IDA, IFC, and MIGA, we are working to increase our commitments
to lower-income countries as they improve their development outlook and to shift
resources toward countries suffering from fragility, conflict, and violence. We will
be improving our effectiveness and budget discipline throughout the year to make
more resources available to meet client needs and challenges.
I am deeply optimistic that courageous, enlightened leadership and strong policies can work to improve living conditions for those most in need. I saw first-hand
the scope and urgency of the development challenges during my trip to SubSaharan Africa in April. I am hopeful there is a path forward, having seen Prime
Minister Abiy and his team launching ambitious reforms in Ethiopia, the potential
of the world’s largest solar energy plant in Egypt, the resilience of the people of
Mozambique after the devastation of twin cyclones, and the inspiration for the
people of Madagascar after its first peaceful leadership transition.
The people in developing countries are facing immense challenges. The World
Bank Group and all our personnel and resources are committed to working with our
partners around the world toward policies and solutions that improve their lives.

DAVID MALPASS
President of the World Bank Group
and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors

4	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

75 Years

of Innovation for Progress and Prosperity

ON JULY 1, 1944, DELEGATES FROM 44 COUNTRIES gathered in Bretton Woods,
New Hampshire, to build a new global financial system that wouldn’t just prevent
war, but promote lasting peace.
The aim at the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference was to
design a system that would stabilize exchange rates, bridge imbalances of payments, rebuild countries scarred by war, and promote development in poorer
parts of the world. Three weeks of discussions resulted in two new institutions:
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)—soon known as the World Bank.
The new system reflected a conviction that there are no fixed limits to
prosperity—that all nations could benefit from growth and development. It was
designed to address challenges that individual countries could not tackle on their
own. And underpinning the entire effort was the idea that all people deserve
opportunity. As U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau, the chair of the conference, said on the first night, “Freedom of opportunity is the foundation for all
other freedoms.”
As the Bank set up operations, an outline began to emerge for its role, not only
in reconstruction and development, but in shaping the new financial system. In
1947, we signed our first loan—$250 million for reconstruction in France—and
issued our first bond, raising $250 million for reconstruction and development
projects. Our earliest loans invested in equipment and raw materials, but more
importantly, in the collective will of war-scarred people to rebuild their lives.  
By 1952, the Bank’s focus had shifted from rebuilding Europe to advancing
opportunities for people in developing countries. Over the decades, as needs in
these countries grew larger and more complex, we developed new ways to use
capital and expertise to address them. Our organizational structure grew into the
modern World Bank Group with the creation of IFC, IDA, ICSID, and MIGA.
In 1973, our fifth president, Robert McNamara, interjected into our mission a
word not found in our articles of agreement: poverty. Speaking to shareholders
at that year’s Annual Meetings in Kenya, he argued that the Bank’s mission should
be to alleviate “absolute poverty,” which he described as “a condition of life so
degrading as to insult human dignity,” yet, “so common as to be the lot of some
40 percent of the peoples of the developing countries.”
Our commitment to ending extreme poverty remains at the core of our mission. Today’s Bank Group brings together diverse and talented staff from around
the world. In 1944, only two of the more than 700 delegates at Bretton Woods
were women; today women are nearly 53 percent of our staff and 42 percent of
managers. As the scope of our work continues to expand, we have become more
decentralized, with 141 field offices and staff increasingly based in areas affected
by fragility, conflict, and violence.
Over 75 years, the World Bank Group’s mission has evolved, from rebuilding
after conflict to fostering prosperity and alleviating poverty. In the years to come,
we will continue to pursue breakthroughs that help developing countries raise
median incomes; create jobs; integrate women and young people into economies; and build a stronger, more stable, and resilient economy for everyone.
These goals—and the cooperation to achieve them—are what Bretton Woods
delegates had in mind from the very beginning. They created strong institutions
in which countries could work together to address urgent global challenges and
improve the lives of people all over the world.

	

75TH ANNIVERSARY OF BRET TON WOODS 	

5

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

The Institutions of the
World Bank Group

The World Bank Group is one of the world’s largest sources of funding
and knowledge for developing countries. It consists of five institutions
with a common commitment to reducing poverty, increasing shared
prosperity, and promoting sustainable growth and development.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) lends
to governments of middle-income and creditworthy low-income countries.
International Development Association (IDA) provides financing on
highly concessional terms to governments of the poorest countries.
International Finance Corporation (IFC) provides loans, equity, and
advisory services to stimulate private sector investment in developing
countries.
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) provides political
risk insurance and credit enhancement to investors and lenders to facilitate foreign direct investment in emerging economies.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
provides international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes.

6	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

World Bank Group Financing for
Partner Countries

TABLE 1
WORLD BANK GROUP COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND GROSS ISSUANCE
BY FISCAL YEAR, MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

		 2015	 2016	 2017	 2018	2019

WORLD BANK GROUP
Commitmentsa		 59,776	 64,185	 61,783	 66,868	62,341
Disbursementsb		 44,582	 49,039	 43,853	 45,724	49,395
IBRD
Commitments		23,528	 29,729	 22,611	23,002	23,191
Disbursements		 19,012	 22,532	 17,861	 17,389	20,182
IDA
Commitments		18,966	 16,171	 19,513c	24,010d	21,932e
Disbursements		12,905	 13,191	 12,718c	14,383	 17,549
IFC
Commitmentsf		10,539	 11,117	11,854	11,629	 8,920
Disbursements		 9,264	 9,953	10,355	 11,149	 9,074
MIGA
Gross issuance		

2,828	

4,258	

4,842	

5,251	

5,548

RECIPIENT-EXECUTED TRUST FUNDS
Commitments		 3,914	 2,910	 2,962	 2,976	2,749
Disbursements		 3,401	 3,363	 2,919	 2,803	2,590
a.	Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, Recipient-Executed Trust Fund (RETF) commitments, and MIGA gross
issuance. RETF commitments include all recipient-executed grants, and therefore total World
Bank Group commitments differ from the amount reported in the Corporate Scorecard, which
includes only a subset of trust-funded activities.
b.	Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, and RETF disbursements.
c.	Figures include the commitment and disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
Emergency Financing Facility.
d.	Figure does not include $185 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window
instruments, of which IDA has exposure of $36 million in guarantees and $9 million in
derivatives.
e.	Figure does not include $393 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window
instruments, of which IDA has exposure of $106 million in guarantees, $25 million in
derivatives, and $1 million through funding of IFC-PSW related equity investment.
f.	Long-term commitments for IFC’s own account. Does not include short-term finance or funds
mobilized from other investors.					
	

	

PROVIDING WORLD
SUSTAINABLE
BANK DEVELOPMENT
GROUP FINANCING
SOLUTIONS
FOR PARTNER
FOR OUR
COUNTRIES
CLIENTS 	

7

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Global Commitments
The World Bank Group maintained its support for developing countries over the past year
as the organization focused on delivering results more quickly, increasing its relevance for
clients and partners, and bringing global solutions to local challenges.

LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

$10.7
BILLION

TOTAL

$62.3
BILLION

in loans, grants, equity investments,
and guarantees to partner countries
and private businesses.
Total includes multiregional and global projects.
Regional breakdowns reflect World Bank country
classifications.

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

$5.8

BILLION

EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

$7.5

BILLION

$8.2

BILLION
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

$11.7
BILLION
SOUTH ASIA

$18.4
BILLION

SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA

	

2019 SUMMARY RESULTS 	

9

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Message from the
Executive Directors
Fiscal 2019 saw a change in leadership and notable achievements for the World
Bank Group. The Board unanimously selected David Malpass as President for a fiveyear term, which began on April 9, 2019. We actively engaged with management,
and with the President upon his joining, in strategic areas, including implementing
the Forward Look vision for the Bank Group and capital package, adjusting the
lending toolkit to expand Program for Results financing, strengthening the Inspection Panel’s accountability framework, making operational adjustments under the
IDA18 program, and scaling up transformational projects.
We discussed policy measures and internal reforms to help carry out key deliverables in the Forward Look vision for the Bank Group and the capital package
commitments, such as private sector mobilization, organizational and workforce
realignments, a new financial sustainability framework and crisis buffer, and the
IBRD Fund for Innovative Global Public Goods Solutions.
Recognizing the significant progress in mainstreaming climate change into the
Bank Group’s operations and policy dialogue, we reviewed management’s ambitious new set of targets and actions in this area and endorsed the Action Plan on
Climate Change Adaptation and Resilience. We also welcomed progress on gender
and development, and the Bank Group’s approach to closing the gaps between
men and women and between boys and girls. We recognized advances in diversity
and inclusion among staff and management and urged continued work internally
and with client countries.

10	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Standing (Left to Right): Erik Bethel, United States (Bank/IFC Alternate Director and MIGA Director);
Masanori Yoshida, Japan; Werner Gruber, Switzerland; Adrián Fernández, Uruguay; Nathalie Francken,
Belgium (Bank/IFC Alternate Director and MIGA Director); Kunil Hwang, Korea; Jean-Claude Tchatchouang,
Cameroon; Richard Hugh Montgomery, United Kingdom; Jorge Alejandro Chávez Presa, Mexico; Koen
Davidse, The Netherlands; Susan Ulbaek, Denmark; Guenther Schoenleitner, Austria (Bank/IFC Director and
MIGA Alternate Director); Yingming Yang, China; Roman Marshavin, Russian Federation; Armando Manuel,
Angola (Alternate)
Seated (Left to Right): Juergen Karl Zattler, Germany; Shahid Ashraf Tarar, Pakistan; Aparna Subramani,
India; Hesham Alogeel, Saudi Arabia; Anne Kabagambe, Uganda; Merza Hussain Hasan, Kuwait (Dean);
Kulaya Tantitemit, Thailand; Patrizio Pagano, Italy; Christine Hogan, Canada; Hervé de Villeroché, France
(Co-Dean); Fabio Kanczuk, Brazil

We noted the increasingly challenging external environment for developing economies amid weak global growth, with greater impediments for countries in situations
affected by fragility, conflict, and violence. We discussed additional efforts to address
debt vulnerabilities, increase resilience to shocks, and boost long-term growth prospects, and noted that the Bank has a significant role to play in debt sustainability.
We discussed the Bank Group’s leadership role on issues such as disruptive and
transformative technology, human capital development, the future of work, regional
integration and trade promotion, and gender equality. We stressed the importance
of collaboration in mobilizing finance for development across the Bank Group. We
also encouraged advancing partnerships with the private sector, financial institutions, governments, and others on reforms to improve productivity and invest in
human capital and infrastructure, which are key to delivering on our twin goals and
the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.
To observe the impacts of the Bank Group’s operational engagement in client
countries, we visited project sites to discuss the effectiveness of its delivery model
with government officials, civil society, private sector representatives, and other
stakeholders. This year, Board members traveled to Angola, Cambodia, Mauritius,
Mongolia, Singapore, and Uganda.

	

MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 	

11

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Message from the
Chief Executive Officer of IBRD and IDA

During my visit to Rwanda in November 2018, I was asked if the country could
achieve its target of high-income status by 2050. Many countries share such ambitious goals, and I am often asked these questions during my travels. While the
future is hard to predict, we know that rapid progress can be achieved with the
right policies.
The World Bank supports countries in making the smart policy choices that can
lead to development breakthroughs and better opportunities for their citizens. That
means bold reforms, innovative ideas, and investments in people, institutions, and
connectivity. However, while more than a billion people have risen from poverty
over the last 25 years, progress is slowing in some countries; there are even some
where poverty is on the rise. With the global economy slowing down, growth has
become harder to deliver.
For many countries, the risk of debt distress has risen. Over the last 12 months,
we have scaled up our work on debt management, which has become critical in
many countries. We continue to work closely with the international community on
this agenda, notably in the G-7 and G-20, where we also make valuable contributions on issues such as jobs, taxation, blended finance, gender, and health.
I am pleased to report that we had strong performance in many areas this year.
In fiscal 2019, IBRD and IDA committed a total of $45.1 billion across 351 important
and transformative projects, of which three were IBRD and IDA blended operations,
covering about 100 countries. The geographic spread of our work underlines the
Bank’s role as a truly global development institution that can act as a transmission line of development best practices between countries. More than ever, we are
­helping our clients tackle shared issues and common challenges.
First, we see that war and instability are increasingly disrupting development
progress. By 2030, 46 percent of the world’s extreme poor will live in countries
affected by fragility, conflict, and violence. On this agenda, we have increased our
financing to $8 billion this year from IDA alone, we have moved more staff into
fragile locations, and we have stepped up cooperation with humanitarian partners.
Such collaboration enables us to bring greater impact during prolonged conflicts
and to anticipate and prevent crises.
Second, many clients seek our support to meet climate change targets, and we
are helping countries reduce emissions and adapt to warmer conditions. In fiscal
2019, 31 percent of IBRD and IDA commitments included climate co-benefits. This
once again exceeded our 2020 target of 28 percent, and we are now setting the bar
even higher. And in December 2018, we announced a $200 billion five-year target
for climate action across the Bank Group—half of which will be made up of direct
finance from IBRD and IDA—and we are leading the world in putting adaptation
finance on par with action to reduce emissions.
Third, as countries have sought new drivers of growth in tough conditions, the
Bank’s leadership on the economics of gender equality has become more prominent. This was reflected in the 10th edition of our flagship report, Women, Business
and the Law. Like so many of our knowledge products, it provides a key reference
point for policy makers and advocacy groups and helps strengthen the case for

12	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

reforms. And I am proud that we are walking the talk inside the Bank: today, women
make up over half of our staff, and last December, we achieved gender parity in our
senior team.
We are constantly striving to bring innovation to our development work. As a
knowledge bank, we drive cutting-edge research and analysis to help countries
identify opportunities as new priorities emerge. The Human Capital Project, which
launched at the 2018 Annual Meetings in Bali, now has 63 early adopter countries
and 24 global champions working to strengthen countries’ investments in their people. This work also reflects our 2019 World Development Report, which explores how
innovation and advances in technology are changing jobs, skills, and livelihoods.
Technology offers new paths for the poorest countries to catch up with the rest
of the world, but also a risk that they might fall farther behind. In Africa, where population growth could outpace job creation over the next few decades, the digital
economy presents an exciting opportunity. Through innovations in digital infrastructure, digital identity, and fintech, technology enables breakthroughs in a wide
range of sectors, creating opportunities for people, governments, and businesses.
This is why we have announced investments of $25 billion through 2030 to support
digital transformation across North and Sub-Saharan Africa and aim to mobilize
another $25 billion from the private sector.
As a learning institution, we always seek new ways to serve our clients better
and improve our delivery model. To this end, we have implemented key reforms to
improve our operational effectiveness and provide better value for our shareholders.
We are shifting more of our staff closer to clients and empowering our managers on
the ground to better serve low-income and FCV countries. We have realigned senior
responsibilities within our global practice groups to strengthen links and cooperation between our sectoral and regional teams, while maintaining the flexibility of
our operational model.
Through our ongoing Agile program, we continue to pilot and evaluate new
ideas to improve how we work and make our operations more efficient. We have
found that this approach reduces project preparation time by up to 10 percent
and frees up more than $8 million worth of staff time annually that we can transfer into value-added and client-focused activities. And that means more work like
the Resilient Homes Design Challenge, which
crowd-sourced over 300 designs for disasterresilient and sustainable houses that could be
constructed for under $10,000 for people living in areas vulnerable to natural hazards or
disasters.
None of this would be possible without
the dedication of our staff, who continue to
deliver results, often in difficult and complex
environments. Everywhere I travel, I see their
efforts making a difference. When I reflect on
their passion, the confidence of our shareholders and the values that anchor our work,
I know that our shared goals—as bold as they
may seem—can be achieved.

KRISTALINA GEORGIEVA
Chief Executive Officer of IBRD and IDA

	

MESSAGE FROM THE CEO OF IBRD AND IDA 	

13

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Feature: MOZAMBIQUE

Partnering with Mozambique to Promote
Resilience and Inclusive Growth
Mozambique made headlines this year, as two major cyclones had a catastrophic
impact on millions of people. The second-largest port city, Beira, took a direct hit
from Cyclone Idai. Soon after, Cyclone Kenneth made landfall in the country, causing further damage.
For the world’s poorest countries, this kind of setback has all too often reversed
years of development progress. But devastating as these storms were, they also
showed that Mozambique has made important progress in dealing with climate
risks—an effort in which the World Bank is a key partner.
As part of his first official overseas trip in May 2019, World Bank Group President David Malpass visited Beira, where he announced $350 million in emergency
financing for Mozambique from the IDA Crisis Response Window. This is helping to
reestablish the water supply, rebuild damaged infrastructure and crops, and support disease prevention, food security, social protection, and early warning systems
in communities. The funds complement other efforts to boost long-term resilience, such as the Disaster Risk Management and Resilience Program for Results,
which seeks to improve financial protection against natural disasters, strengthen
preparedness and response, and build climate-resilient schools.
We have also supported the government’s response, a massive effort through
its National Disaster Management Institute that has brought together more than
14 countries, 1,000 aid workers, and 188 organizations. Within a month of Idai,
over a million people received food assistance, some 900,000 had clean water, and
nearly 750,000 were vaccinated against cholera. The port was also back in operation as the city cleaned up. This was partly thanks to a World Bank co-investment
with Germany’s KfW for a stormwater drainage system that reduced the severity of
flooding in the city. The project also provides solar-powered street lighting, which
withstood the storm and for a time was the only source of light in the city.
A strong recovery can help the government get back to supporting long-term
economic growth, where progress has been encouraging in recent years. Central
to this, and to ensuring that growth includes everyone, is human capital. Mozambique has struggled with systemic inefficiencies and a lack of coordination that
undermine the quality of education and health care. In 2014, the government
launched the Public Financial Management Program for Results to eliminate bottle­
necks and enhance cooperation across ministries.
This approach is bringing improvements, for example by targeting factors
that had lowered learning outcomes: weak school governance, little community
participation, high absenteeism, and delays in school funding. By 2017, all 1,300
participating primary schools received grants by the start of the school year, letting them purchase learning materials and support the most vulnerable students.
“This is a major improvement, as it allows us to plan better at the beginning of
the year,” explained Matilde Xilume, director of the 3 de Fevereiro primary school
in southern Mozambique.

14	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

Similarly, the health system is improving service delivery and treatment by
ensuring that public facilities keep medicines stocked and avoid using any expired
and damaged supply. As João Grachane, a senior officer at Mozambique’s health
ministry, put it, “Medicines only have value when they reach the right patient at the
right time.” In 2013, prior to the program’s launch, the availability of medicine for
maternal health at public facilities stood at 79 percent; by 2018, this increased to
83 percent. Meanwhile, the percentage of treatment sites running out of antiretroviral drugs had dropped from 27 to 5.
Building on this progress, Mozambique launched a further Program for Results
in 2017, with a focus on primary health care in more remote areas of the country.
This program has achieved encouraging results in its first year, including more
births occurring in health facilities, improved family planning coverage, more staff
allocated to primary health centers and rural areas, and community health workers
reaching more families in remote locations. The program also provided funding
for the reconstruction of health facilities in districts most affected by the recent
cyclones in central and northern regions of the country.
Despite considerable gains, Mozambique remains very poor and faces big
development challenges. Our 2018 Human Capital Index found it to be below
average for its income group and Africa as a whole, based on indicators such as
expected years of schooling, harmonized test scores, survival rates, and childhood
stunting. While growth has been steady in recent years, the benefits have not been
shared broadly enough. High levels of public debt require continued progress in
restructuring and rebuilding trust with investors. And despite the strong start in
cyclone recovery, natural disasters are expected to become a bigger and more
frequent risk to livelihoods and infrastructure.
The Bank remains committed to helping the country address these challenges.
By promoting inclusive growth and long-term sustainability and resilience, we can
help the government alleviate poverty and ensure a better quality of life for everyone in Mozambique.

	

FEATURE: MOZAMBIQUE 	

15

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Regional Perspectives

The World Bank operates today out of more than 140 countries worldwide. An increased presence in client countries is helping the Bank to
better understand, work more effectively with, and provide more timely
services to our partners in those countries. Ninety-six percent of Country Directors/Country Managers and 45 percent of staff are based in
countries within each of the six geographical regions. The following section highlights the major goals achieved, projects undertaken, strategies
implemented, and publications produced in fiscal 2019.

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Africa
Growth in Sub-Saharan Africa is estimated at 2.5 percent for 2018, down from
2.6 percent in 2017. Although expected to rebound to 2.9 percent in 2019, growth
remains insufficient to reduce poverty significantly. Although the poverty rate
declined from 54 percent in 1990 to 41 percent in 2015, population growth at 2.6
percent per year has offset these gains, resulting in 130 million more poor people.
Volatility in the global environment—trade tensions, protectionism, and recovering but uncertain commodity prices—continues to have a negative impact on
African economies. Holding back growth within the region are macroeconomic
instability, including poorly managed debt, inflation, and deficits; political and
regulatory uncertainty; and conflict and fragility. For example, fragility in a few
countries is costing the region nearly a half a percentage point of growth per year,
or 2.6 percentage points over five years.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $15.0 billion in lending to the region for 152 operations
in fiscal 2019, (of which two were IBRD and IDA blended operations), including
$820 million in IBRD loans and $14.2 billion in IDA commitments. Revenue from
Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with six middle- and high-income
countries was $7 million.
Our regional strategy weaves together five core focus areas for stronger development: boosting human capital and empowering women; expanding the digital
economy; promoting regional integration; addressing fragility and building resilience to climate change; and mobilizing finance for development.

Strengthening human capital: a focus on women
Building human capital in Africa depends on women’s empowerment, and our
Africa Human Capital Plan, launched in April 2019, seeks to help countries accelerate progress. We will increase our human capital investments by 50 percent, including $15 billion in new grants and concessional financing during fiscal 2021–23 to
help drastically reduce child mortality to save 4 million lives, avert stunting among
11 million children, and increase children’s learning outcomes by 20 percent.
In Madagascar, we provided $165 million to help expand the safety net to alleviate poverty, build human capital, and strengthen resilience, with an emphasis on
vulnerable women and children. To date, it has reached more than 140,000 families across 17 districts. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, $492 million in IDA
financing will help 2.5 million children under the age of 2 and 1.5 million pregnant
and lactating women—the country’s largest investment in child nutrition to date.

Accelerating digital transformation
The Bank Group and partners are committed to ensuring that every person, business, and government in Africa is digitally enabled by 2030. A digital transformation
TABLE 2  AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2017–19
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	
FY17	 FY18	FY19	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY17	FY18	FY19

IBRD	 1,163	 1,120	820	 427	 734	 690
IDA	
10,679	
15,411	
14,187 	
6,623	
8,206	
10,190
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2019: $77.7 billion.

18	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

in the region can increase growth in Africa by nearly 2 percentage points per year
and reduce poverty by nearly 1 percentage point per year—and when paired with
investments in human capital, these impacts can be doubled.
This is not just about building infrastructure. It includes investments in skills,
digital identification, e-commerce, and digital business. We will invest $25 billion
in Africa’s digital transformation between now and 2030, and we aim to mobilize
at least $25 billion more from the private sector. Through our current portfolio, we
are supporting digital integration by financing infrastructure for high-speed internet, such as the fiber optic backbone between the Republic of Congo and Gabon,
and helping young African entrepreneurs harness technology to tackle challenges,
including access to education, transport, and health services. In Ghana, Bankfinanced tech hubs are training more than 650 people to help them break into
cutting-edge jobs and new industries.

Addressing the drivers of fragility and climate risks
With climate shocks straining communities and threatening food security, it is
critical to invest in climate adaptation and resilience as well as disaster risk management. Under our Africa Climate Business Plan, launched in 2016, the Bank has
approved 176 projects for a total of $17 billion. These are delivering results ahead
of schedule, particularly in climate-smart agriculture and ocean economies, coastal
resilience, integrated watershed management, and renewable energy.
In conflict hotspots, we are helping rehabilitate infrastructure, develop economic opportunities, provide basic services, and build the capacity of governments
and civil society. The Bank Group supports the Sahel Alliance, a coalition of partners
helping rebuild the social contract and state presence in recently stabilized areas
of Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Somalia. In Mali, we are helping
restore a fishing port that was destroyed by bombardment in 2013. In the Central
African Republic, a successful cash-for-work program is helping create jobs and
boost self-employment.

Promoting private sector–led growth
While private participation in Africa’s development is rising, with infrastructure
investment totaling $7.7 billion according to the 2018 Private Participation in Infrastructure report, there is scope for much more. The Bank Group is working to leverage all sources of finance, expertise, and solutions and working with governments
to create an enabling environment for investors.
With our help, Africa is generating most of its energy cleanly and in partnership with the private sector. To date, we have mobilized over $2 billion in private
investment in Kenya and nearly $1 billion in Cameroon. Our support has also helped
Kenya improve the operational and financial performance of its utilities—with two
major utility companies now publicly listed—and develop renewable sources such
as geothermal and solar.
FIGURE 1 AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2019
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $15.0 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

7%
4%

Transportation

Public Administration

	

Education

22% Energy and Extractives

12%

Information and
Communications Technologies
Industry, Trade, and Services

8%

10%

Social Protection

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

12%

3%

5%
8%

9%

Financial Sector
Health

THE REGIONS 	

19

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Working across countries for better impact
We have strengthened our support for regional integration following adoption of
the Africa Continental Free Trade Area in March 2017 and are working closely with
Regional Economic Communities to expand our work. At the same time, we have
introduced a spatial approach to address common challenges in the Horn of Africa,
the Lake Chad region, and the Sahel. Our regional integration portfolio amounts to
over $10 billion in more than 70 operations.

SPOTLIGHT
EMPOWERING WOMEN AND GIRLS TO TRANSFORM THE SAHEL
The $295 million Sahel Women Empowerment and Demographic Dividend Project
(SWEDD) was initiated in 2015 to help Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Mali,
Mauritania, and Niger empower women and adolescent girls; increase their access to
quality reproductive, child, and maternal health services; and help countries develop
policy agendas that make demography and gender central to growth.
Religious leaders are conducting community dialogue to support girls’ secondary
education, delayed childbearing, birth spacing, family planning, and combating genderbased violence. Men are enrolled in learning programs to encourage participation in
household tasks, healthy sexual and reproductive health behaviors, and reduced violence
against women and children. Established safe spaces are teaching girls life skills, including problem solving, negotiation, refusal techniques, reproductive health knowledge, and
nutrition. Adolescent girls and young women are being trained for professions with higher
income opportunities. In Chad, for instance, over 13,000 vulnerable girls have received
support through the provision of school kits, payment of school fees, housing, and academic support, resulting in a halving of the dropout rate. Nearly 400 safe spaces have
been created in schools, and 280 women have received training in renewable energies
and the operation and maintenance of heavy agricultural machinery.
SWEDD also helps parliamentarians, judges, and lawyers improve legislation, expand
knowledge and application of existing laws, and extend their services to rarely served victims. Ministries are building capacity to collect data and conduct analysis that can inform
population policy and investments.

20	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Bank support to African Centers of Excellence has increased from $165 million to $465 million, to improve postgraduate education in 45 universities in 19
countries, focusing on science, engineering, economics, and mathematics. We are
also strengthening partnerships, including with the African Union Commission, the
African Development Bank, the EU, and the UN, to drive stronger outcomes on joint
priorities such as trade, access to electricity, conflict and violence prevention, and
economic integration.
TABLE 3  AFRICA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			
CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

665	

869	

1,078

Population growth (annual %)	

2.7	

2.8	

2.7

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

551	 1,430	1,506

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

0.8	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

2.7	

391b	409	413
	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

52	

58	

63	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

49	

55	

59	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

61	 64	72
	

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

72	 75	79
	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

	

–0.3	

564	

746	

822	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)c	

55.3b	46.5	41.0
43	 38	34

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
846	 625	547
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

154	101	75
	

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

54	 67	69
	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

83	 84	85
	

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

12	 19	24
	

SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic drinking
water (% population)	

44	 53	58
	

SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
facilities (% population)	

24	 27	28
	

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

26	 33	43
	

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

73	 71	70
	

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the internet
(% population)	

<1	 7	22
	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2018; visit data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/afr and
data.worldbank.org/country.
	

THE REGIONS 	

21

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

East Asia and Pacific
Growth in developing East Asia and Pacific remained resilient at 6.3 percent in
2018. Domestic demand has remained resilient in much of the region, partly offsetting the impact of slowing exports. Despite the recent slowdown, the region
remains a key driver of the global economy, accounting for around one-third of
global growth, mainly due to China.
China’s growth slowed moderately to 6.5 percent in 2018, after growing faster
than anticipated in 2017. In Thailand and Vietnam, growth was robust at 4.1 percent
and 7.1 percent, respectively. Indonesia’s growth picked up slightly at 5.2 percent,
credited to improved prospects for investment and private consumption. Growth in
the Philippines slowed to 6.2 percent, but the planned expansion of public investment is expected to boost it over the medium term. In Malaysia, growth eased at
4.7 percent, with the slowing of export growth and public investments.
In the region’s smaller economies, growth prospects remained robust in 2018,
averaging over 6.5 percent annually in Cambodia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Myanmar. In Timor-Leste, growth is expected to resume in 2019
following the resolution of a political impasse, while prospects in Papua New Guinea
were affected by a large earthquake in 2018. Growth in the Pacific Island countries
is expected to remain relatively stable, although highly vulnerable to shocks from
natural disasters.
The region has made significant strides in eliminating extreme poverty. The percentage of people living on less than $1.90 a day is now estimated at less than 1.5
percent (3.8 percent excluding China). This number is expected to reach 1 percent
by 2021 (2.7 percent excluding China). Nonetheless, an aging population, rapid
urbanization, slowing growth in global trade, and rapidly advancing technologies
present new challenges to sustainable progress in the region.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $5.3 billion for 49 operations in the region in fiscal 2019,
including $4.0 billion in IBRD loans and $1.3 billion in IDA commitments. We also
signed Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with four countries for a total of
about $5 million. Our regional strategy focuses on three main areas: private sector–
led growth, resilience and sustainability, and human capital and inclusion.

Promoting private sector–led growth
Expanding private sector opportunities and creating an enabling environment for
investment and innovation are crucial to ensuring sustainable growth in the region.
In Malaysia, where new technologies play a large role in ongoing development,
the Bank conducted a diagnostic study to unlock the potential of the digital economy. The report has guided government action in the sector, leading to expanded,
cheaper, and faster internet access.
TABLE 4  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2017–19
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	
FY17	 FY18	FY19	

IBRD	
IDA	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY17	FY18	FY19

4,404	
3,981	
4,030	
3,961	
3,476	
5,048
2,703	 631	 1,272	 1,145	1,252	1,282

Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2019: $36.2 billion.

22	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

In Fiji, we supported the issuance of the first sovereign green bond by a developing country, which raised $50 million to support climate change mitigation and
adaptation. For investors, green bonds are an attractive investment proposition, as
well as an opportunity to support environmentally sound projects. At the request of
Fiji’s Reserve Bank, the World Bank and IFC provided technical assistance throughout the bond development process.

Enhancing resilience and sustainability
In a region highly vulnerable to the effects of climate change, the Bank works
with countries and partners to enhance resilience, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and support clean energy. In China, a Bank-supported program is helping
Hua Xia Bank provide businesses with over $900 million in financing to increase
energy efficiency, invest in clean energy, and tighten air pollution control. The
project focuses on the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei (Jing-Jin-Ji) region and the surrounding provinces of Shandong, Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, and Henan. The funding is
also helping combat climate change by so far reducing carbon emissions by 1.8
million tons per year.
In Lao PDR, the Bank is supporting reconstruction and improving resilience to
natural disasters. The Lao PDR Southeast Asia Disaster Risk Management Project
is helping reduce the impact of flooding in Oudomxay province, while enhancing
monitoring, forecasting, and early warning of natural disasters. The project is also
improving financial resilience to natural hazards through insurance mechanisms
and a national disaster risk financing strategy. Additionally, a roads sector project in Lao PDR incorporates climate resilience into  road maintenance.  The IDA
Crisis Response Window is expected to provide funding to both projects to boost
the country’s recovery from costly floods and build resilient infrastructure against
future disasters.

Building human capital and inclusion
Investing in human capital is key to ensuring long-term sustainable growth and
reducing poverty in the region. In Indonesia, we are strengthening social protection
systems to address gaps in safety nets and build human capital. The conditional
cash transfer (CCT) project Program Keluarga Harapan (PKH) has contributed to a
reduction in childhood stunting rates, school dropouts, and child labor among participants. Building on its strong results, additional funding from a 2017 Program for
Results expanded PKH to cover 10 million households or 17 percent of the population, making it the second-largest CCT program in the world and further helping it
expand coverage, strengthen delivery systems, and improve coordination.

FIGURE 2  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2019
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.3 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management
Transportation

Social Protection

7%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

5%
7%

10%

Education

7%

Energy and Extractives

9%

1%
5%
6%

Public Administration

	

40%

3%

Financial Sector
Health
Industry, Trade,
and Services
Information and
Communications
Technologies

THE REGIONS 	

23

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

A similar CCT program in the Philippines, locally known as the Pantawid Pamilya
Pilipino Program, covers over 4 million households with children under 18, providing incentives for parents to invest in their health and education. The program
has increased school attendance and reduced the gender gap in enrollment. The
program’s success accounted for a quarter of the country’s total poverty reduction
over the past seven years.

SPOTLIGHT
PROVIDING ON-THE-JOB SKILLS FOR URBAN YOUTH IN
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Since 2010, Papua New Guinea’s Urban Youth Employment Project has helped the country respond to an increasingly pressing socioeconomic situation, where more than half
the population under age 24 had limited job prospects. In Port Moresby, it engaged
18,500 youth in training and work placement activities, established about 18,000 new
bank accounts, and created about 815,000 days of work.
Before the program, 70 percent of participants reported they never had a waged job,
33 percent never attended high school, 35 percent were involved in crime, and 74 percent never had a bank account. Six months after their on-the-job training, nearly half (41
percent) of the participants reported that they had secured full-time or part-time work,
while employers reported that 97 percent of project participants were qualified for fulltime work.
Co-financed by Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the project is
now the country’s most significant public program addressing youth unemployment. Its
full-service approach—taking long-term unemployed youth through vocational training,
job matching, and fully subsidized work placements—will now be expanded to include
Lae City, Papua New Guinea’s industrial hub.

24	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

TABLE 5  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			
CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

1,816	

1,966	

2,082 	

Population growth (annual %)	

1.0	

0.7	

0.7	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

914	 3,763	7,601
	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

6.5	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

9.0	

5.6	

549b	221	 47
	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

73	

75	

77	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

69	

72	

73	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

97	 99	99
	

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

98	 99	99
	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

4,197	

10,040	 11,689	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)c	

29.7b	11.2	 2.3
	
25	 16	12
	

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
120	79	63
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	
	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

42	 23	17
	

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

92	 102	97
	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

82	 79	78
	

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

17	 18	21

SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic drinking
water (% population)	

78	 89	93
	

SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
facilities (% population)	

60	 70	75
	

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

90	 95	97
	

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

32	 16	16
	

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the internet
(% population)	

2	 29	51

	

	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2018; visit data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/eap and
data.worldbank.org/country.

	

THE REGIONS 	

25

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Europe and Central Asia
Economic growth in Europe and Central Asia slowed to 3.1 percent in 2018. It is
projected to decline further to 2.1 percent in 2019, amid a global downturn and
uncertain prospects.
Growth in countries across the region varied, with Russia, the largest economy,
contributing robustly to regional growth, alongside Albania, Hungary, Poland, and
Serbia. Regional growth is expected to pick up modestly in 2020–21, as anticipated gradual recovery in Turkey offsets moderating activity in Central Europe. The
region’s long-term challenges, however, remain formidable.
The share of the working-age population in the region has fallen dramatically,
largely due to declining fertility rates in the 1990s. Productivity slowed to 0.8 percent per year between 2013 and 2017. Investment growth has slowed sharply, from
an average of above 15 percent in the five years prior to the global financial crisis to
an average of just 1.6 percent in 2014–18. Parts of the region—particularly Central
Asia and the Western Balkans—are highly vulnerable to climate change impacts,
including droughts, flooding, and frequent natural disasters.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $4.3 billion in lending to the region for 40 operations
in fiscal 2019, including $3.7 billion in IBRD loans and $583 million in IDA commitments. We also signed 22 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with eight
countries for a total of $39 million. These agreements provided technical advice on
issues such as public finance and fiscal reforms, urban planning and development,
and strengthening education and skills for employment.
Our strategy aims to raise productivity and build resilience throughout the
region. To raise productivity, we focus on human capital development, inclusion of
the marginalized, facilitating access for all to new markets and technology, supporting competition in markets, and investing in safety nets. Building resilience means
deepening the foundations for inclusive markets by strengthening macroeconomic
and financial stability, developing effective governance to support growth while
addressing climate change challenges, establishing an enabling regulatory system
for the private sector, and fostering regional integration.

Boosting human capital to raise productivity
The Bank continued to advance projects in the region aimed at investing in health
care systems, improving skills, supporting the transition to new technologies, and
investing in safety nets to protect poor households.
TABLE 6  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2017–19
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	
FY17	 FY18	FY19	

IBRD	
IDA	

4,569	
739	

3,550	
957	

3,749 	
583 	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY17	FY18	FY19

2,799	
310	

4,134	
298	

Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2019: $27.1 billion.

26	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

2,209
931

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

In fiscal 2019, we provided $33 million for a project in North Macedonia that
aims to expand access and improve the quality of social services. In Tajikistan,
additional financing of $2 million to the ongoing Social Safety Net Strengthening
Project continued to help the most vulnerable citizens gain access to important
social assistance benefits. In Belarus, additional financing of $102 million to the
Education Modernization Project helped the country improve student learning and
modernize the school system. A $103 million loan for the Innovation, Inclusion,
and Quality Project in Georgia will help enhance human capital development by
expanding access to preschool education and improving education quality.

Building solid foundations and resilience for growth
Our key priorities in the region continue to include deepening macroeconomic and
financial stability, developing effective governance and institutions, and building
capacity to adapt to evolving threats, such as climate change.
In fiscal 2019, we supported a $52 million Tax Administration Modernization
Project in Serbia that aims to improve the effectiveness of tax collection and lower
the compliance burden for taxpayers. In Moldova, a $45 million Competitiveness
Enhancement Project continued to increase the export competitiveness of Moldovan enterprises and decrease regulatory burdens. We also supported the Kyrgyz
Republic through a $20 million loan to strengthen the country’s capacity to respond
to natural disasters and reduce their adverse financial impacts.

Enabling markets to achieve high productivity in the private sector
This year’s projects aimed at promoting entrepreneurship, competition, and innovation; facilitating access to new markets and technology; fostering regional economic integration; and participating in global value chains.
A $15 million project in Kosovo helped improve the competitiveness and capacity of export-oriented firms. In Uzbekistan, we approved a $200 million loan to help
rural micro-, small, and medium enterprises across the Ferghana Valley gain greater
access to financial resources, advisory assistance, and markets in urban areas. A
$400 million project in Turkey will help improve access to longer-term finance for
women-inclusive enterprises and firms in regions affected by the influx of Syrians
Under Temporary Protection.
The Bank also produced important thought leadership pieces and analyses on
key policy issues. The report, Toward a New Social Contract: Taking on Distributional Tensions in Europe and Central Asia, looks at labor, taxation, and social welfare policies and calls for a fundamental rethinking of these policies to ease the
growing divide in societies across the region.
FIGURE 3  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2019
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $4.3 BILLION

2%

Transportation

5%

Social Protection

Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

5%
11%
13%

Public Administration

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry
Education

24%
12% Energy and Extractives

Information and
Communications Technologies
Industry, Trade, and Services

	

11%

3%
12%

3%

Financial Sector
Health

THE REGIONS 	

27

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

A flagship report, Critical Connections: Promoting Economic Growth and Resilience in Europe and Central Asia, analyzes the impact on growth of various types
of connectivity—trade, investment, migration, communications, and transport—to
help policymakers maximize the economic benefits of these connections across
the region.

SPOTLIGHT
BOOSTING REGIONAL ECONOMIC INTEGRATION IN THE
WESTERN BALKANS
Delays at crossings in the Western Balkans are five times longer than in many EU countries. If logistics costs can be brought in line with average EU levels, annual savings could
exceed $1.1 billion, or 1 percent of the region’s combined GDP. Although exports from
the Western Balkans can enter the EU without tariffs, only 10 to 20 percent of firms
here are exporters. Compliance with procedures—including inspections and customs—
and time spent at crossing points dampens efficiency, increases costs, and hinders trade.
Breaking down these barriers to economic integration and improving connectivity and
trade are critical to sustainable growth.
The Bank’s multiphase Western Balkans Trade and Transport Facilitation Project will
provide a total of $140 million to six participating countries, with a focus on regional integration to facilitate cross-border movements of goods, improve the efficiency of transport
systems, and enhance market access and investment.
The first phase was approved this year, providing financing for Serbia ($40 million),
North Macedonia ($30 million), and Albania ($20 million). It is projected to reduce annual
export and import costs by more than 10 percent. By improving infrastructure, introducing new technologies, and increasing coordination among agencies in the region, the
project will promote trade and growth. Modernizing transport infrastructure and services,
as well as improving traffic flows, will also help lower greenhouse gas emissions and support countries’ efforts to achieve their climate change mitigation targets.

28	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

TABLE 7  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			
CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

392	399	418	

Population growth (annual %)	

0.0	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

0.5	

0.5	

1,784	 7,440	7,781
	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

8.0	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

28 	11	7
	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

73	

75	

77	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

63	

66	

69	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

98	 99	100
	

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

99	 100	100
	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

4.5	

2.3	

b

2,693	

3,014	

3,030	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

6.0b	2.4	1.5
	

SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)c	

—	 —	—

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	

56	 29	25
	

SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

36	 19	13
	

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

94	 97	98
	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

73	 72	71
	

	

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

7	 15	21

SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic drinking
water (% population)	

93	 95	96
	

SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
facilities (% population)	

87	 91	93
	

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

99	 99	100
	

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

6	 6	6

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the internet
(% population)	

2	 36	66
	

	

	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2018; visit data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 Data is not available due to insufficient population coverage in the estimates.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/eca and
data.worldbank.org/country.

	

THE REGIONS 	

29

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Latin America and
the Caribbean
Growth in Latin America and Caribbean was 1.6 percent in 2018 and is forecast to
rise to 1.7 percent in 2019. Our aim is to expand upon the profound social transformation during the first decade of the 21st century, when the commodity boom and
widespread growth cut the region’s poverty rates in half. Between 2003 and 2016,
the share of the population living in extreme poverty in the region fell from 24.5
percent to 9.9 percent. Since then, however, economic prospects have dimmed,
and many people are at risk of slipping back into poverty.
The semiannual report, Effects of the Business Cycle on Social Indicators: When
Dreams Meet Reality, highlighted that much of this poverty reduction was due to a
favorable phase of the economic cycle rather than an improvement in the underlying, long-term economic structure of the region. It remains a challenge for countries
to address these limitations to support stronger, inclusive growth.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $6.1 billion in lending to the region for 37 operations in
fiscal 2019 (of which one was an IBRD and IDA blended operation), including $5.7
billion in IBRD loans and $430 million in IDA commitments. We signed 18 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with eight countries for a total of $6 million.
Our strategy for the region centers on three pillars. The first pillar focuses on
inclusive growth by promoting greater productivity, competitiveness, transparency,
and accountability; inclusion of traditionally excluded groups, including Indigenous
Peoples, Afro-descendants, and rural communities; and attracting private investment. The second pillar emphasizes investing in human capital to prepare people
for the challenges and opportunities that come with digitalization and the changing
nature of work. The third seeks to build resilience so that countries can better manage and withstand shocks such as natural disasters, economic upheaval, migration,
and crime and violence.

Promoting inclusive growth
The Bank is committed to promoting inclusive economic and social growth, with a
focus on higher productivity, greater accountability, and expanding opportunity. The
$300 million Metropolitan Buenos Aires Urban Transformation Project is supporting
the physical and social integration of Barrio 31, an informal poor neighborhood, with
the rest of Argentina’s capital, creating economic opportunities for residents. The
Bank’s Expanding Rural Finance Project in Mexico helped the financial system reach
areas where traditional banking was weak or had no presence, delivering more than
150,000 loans and expanding credit for smaller-scale rural enterprises, with a focus
on women and marginalized areas.

TABLE 8  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2017–19
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	
FY17	 FY18	FY19	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY17	FY18	FY19

IBRD	 5,373	 3,898	5,709	 3,885	4,066	4,847
IDA	 503	 428	430	 229	223	340
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2019: $30.0 billion.

30	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

The Community Investment in Rural Areas Project in Bolivia brought basic services infrastructure to the poorest and most isolated rural communities in Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, La Paz, and Oruro, with improvements in irrigation, rural roads,
drinking water, sanitation, and electrification that have benefited nearly 282,000
people. The Quito Metro Line One Project in Ecuador brought effective collaboration between IBRD and several other multilateral development banks, including
Banco de Desarrollo de America Latina, the Inter-American Development Bank, and
the European Investment Bank. The $1.7 billion project is almost 80 percent complete, with no expected delays or cost overruns.

Investing in human capital for growth and prosperity
Increasing human capital through education, health, and opportunities is fundamental to growth and prosperity. Following Brazil’s $200 million Bolsa Família
Program, which provides cash transfers to poor households conditioned on school
attendance and use of maternal and child health services, a similar conditional cash
transfer program is being supported by our Global Partnership for Social Accountability Social Audit Project in Paraguay. Informed by local feedback on how to reduce
absenteeism in schools, enhance the quality of medical care, and ensure the supply
of basic medicines, the project is benefiting more than 13,000 children in the poorest areas of the country.
In Peru, a technical assistance project improved the performance, coverage, and
monitoring of social inclusion programs administered by the Ministry of Development and Social Inclusion, such as conditional cash transfers, pensions for the
extremely poor, and a school meal program for children in pre- and primary schools.

Building resilience
Latin America and the Caribbean is heavily exposed to natural disasters and is
also facing high levels of migration from Venezuela and Central America. Colombia received a $32 million grant from the Bank-administered Global Concessional
Financing Facility in support of policies to manage the flow of migrants and refugees from Venezuela and improve their access to jobs and basic social services, as
well as for host communities.
To help Dominica recover from Hurricane Maria, which damaged 75 percent of
its power network, the Bank supported the government’s National Resilient Development Strategy to diversify the energy matrix. This includes $27 million to build
a seven-megawatt geothermal power plant, which will support Dominica’s goal of
becoming the “the first climate-resilient country in the world.” It will also increase
the share of renewables and offer a clear road map for private sector investment in
cost-effective and climate-resilient geothermal alternatives.
FIGURE 4  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2019
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $6.1 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

9%

8%

2%

Transportation

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

3%

Education

4%
Social Protection

19%

12%
5%

Public Administration
Information and
Communications Technologies

	

Energy and Extractives
Financial Sector
Health

20%
1%

17%

Industry, Trade, and Services

THE REGIONS 	

31

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Employing advisory services, technical assistance,
and convening power
The Bank provided Reimbursable Advisory Services, technical assistance, and
in-depth analyses to support the development goals of countries in the region. In
the Dominican Republic, our services supported policy reforms for addressing insolvency issues and improving the investment climate. In response to the Venezuelan
migrant crisis, the Bank conducted a migration impact assessment to help Colombia
formulate a national response policy and strategy; similar studies are underway in
Peru and Ecuador. The report, Afro-descendants in Latin America: Toward a Framework of Inclusion, highlighted the progress made by the Afro-descendant community in reducing poverty and gaining a voice for its concerns, along with overcoming
structural barriers that prevent their full social and economic inclusion. The October
2018 semiannual report, From Known Unknowns to Black Swans: How to Manage
Risk in Latin America and the Caribbean, highlighted the importance of understanding the different types of insurance mechanisms available to manage risk.
The Bank also convened key policymakers and multilateral partners on shared
goals. These included a high-level conference on Building Resilience to Disasters
and Climate Change in the Caribbean; an Investor Forum, co-hosted with the Argentine government on the eve of the G-20 Summit in Buenos Aires, to identify steps
for boosting long-term and sustainable private sector investment; and the Panama
Accord, co-sponsored with the Organization of American States and the government of Panama, to fight corruption and mobilize greater private financing for
development.

SPOTLIGHT
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEFINING THEIR OWN DEVELOPMENT
To help design inclusive and successful development models, the Bank engages in strategic dialogue with Indigenous Peoples organizations and communities throughout Latin
America. We recognize their distinct development vision and aspirations, as well as the
disproportionate levels of poverty and inequalities they face. Through an $80 million
project, we are supporting the implementation of Panama’s Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, putting these communities at the forefront of defining the development
agenda. The project benefits over 200,000 people, with a focus on women and youth.
It supports investments proposed and prioritized by the Indigenous Authorities, with
an emphasis on culturally pertinent, accessible, and high quality services in the health,
education, water, and sanitation sectors.
To overcome longer-term structural
barriers and long-standing ethnic inequalities, the project includes investments to
improve governance capacity, planning,
and coordination between Indigenous
Authorities and the government. The project has already achieved two of its results
indicators—an Executive Decree to legally
formalize the National Indigenous Peoples
Development Council, which serves as a
permanent consultation platform with the
government and Indigenous Peoples, and
inclusion of a woman advisor in each delegation that participates in the council.

32	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

TABLE 9  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			
CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

456	

519	

565 	

Population growth (annual %)	

1.5	

1.2	

0.9	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

3,741	 7,719	7,968
	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

2.7	

4.4	

0.9	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

63b	36	24
	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

74	

77	

79	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

68	

71	

72	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

95	 98	99
	

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

94	 97	98
	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

1,095	

1,376	

1,530	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)c	

11.8b	6.1	 3.9
	
17	 12	10
	

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
104	84	70
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	
	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

35	 25	19
	

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

98	 99	98
	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

60	 66	67
	

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

15	 23	31
	

SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic drinking
water (% population)	

90	 94	96
	

SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
facilities (% population)	

73	 81	84
	

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

91	 96	98
	

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

31	 31	30
	

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the internet
(% population)	

3	 33	60
	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2018; visit data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/lac and
data.worldbank.org/country.

	

THE REGIONS 	

33

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Middle East and
North Africa
Growth in the Middle East and North Africa is expected to be a modest 1.5 percent
in 2019, down from 1.6 percent in 2018, largely due to weaker global growth and
global financial market volatility. Real per capita growth across the region will be
–0.1 percent, improving slightly on 2018’s decline of –0.2 percent.
Conflict continues in the Republic of Yemen and Libya and, though diminished,
in Syria as well. This has contributed to an increase in the region’s extreme poverty
rate, which nearly doubled from 2.7 percent in 2011 to 5 percent in 2015. Iraq’s
recovery and reconstruction efforts are moving forward, if slowly. The Arab Republic
of Egypt, with strong reforms on the fiscal and energy fronts, will post a growth
rate of 5.5 percent in 2019. Jordan and Lebanon, still bearing the cost of millions of
refugees, are preparing to embark on significant economic reforms, while in Tunisia,
upcoming parliamentary and presidential elections have slowed the reform agenda.
Morocco remains stable, though with slow growth. Djibouti’s 7 percent growth rate
for 2019 is the region’s fastest, though it has had little impact on the country’s high
level of poverty. Growth in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) remains around
2 percent, with reforms in many countries, most notably Saudi Arabia.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $5.5 billion in lending to the region for 19 operations
in fiscal 2019, including $4.9 billion in IBRD loans and $611 million in IDA commitments. Revenue from Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements, including with
countries from the GCC, was around $56 million. The expanded advisory program
continues to provide ongoing support to the reform process in the GCC.
Our regional strategy has the promotion of peace and social stability at its core.
It has expanded since 2018, with added focus on mobilizing finance for development, human capital, and digital development. It retains the four pillars of forging a
new social contract; increasing regional cooperation; building resilience, including
addressing the challenges of forcibly displaced people; and supporting recovery
and reconstruction. The expanded strategy incorporates the Bank’s three priorities
of sustainable and inclusive growth, investment in human capital, and strengthening resilience. Many of our activities include more than one of these pillars, as well
as the new areas of focus.

Renewing the social contract
Our key regional priorities continue to include promoting more accountable and
inclusive structures to support the private sector; generating more and better jobs;
and focusing on education, health, and opportunities presented by digital technologies. For example, the $700 million Financial Inclusion and Digital Economy Program
in Morocco supports entrepreneurship and the expansion of digital opportunities.
Tunisia’s $75 million Innovative Start-Ups and Small and Medium Enterprises Project
TABLE 10  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2017–19
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	
FY17	 FY18	FY19	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY17	FY18	FY19

IBRD	 4,869	 5,945	4,872	 5,335	3,281	4,790
IDA	 1,011	 430	 611	 391	569	647
Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2019: $19.3 billion.

34	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

supports the start-up ecosystem, including entrepreneurs focused on digital technologies. The $1.0 billion Private Sector Development for Inclusive Growth Program
in Egypt supports mobile services for microentrepreneurs, strengthens capital markets and the environment for start-ups, and modernizes tax systems.

Increasing regional cooperation
The Middle East and North Africa is the world’s least economically integrated region.
Hence the Bank supports greater cooperation, efficiency, and interdependence,
particularly in the energy and private sectors, to enhance cross-border investments
and reinforce moves toward a regional market. Jordan’s $1.5 billion Second Equitable Growth and Job Creation Program emphasizes opening up markets to foreign
investment, particularly from the GCC and elsewhere in the region, while introducing greater efficiency and private sector participation. New electricity reform
programs in Jordan and Lebanon will allow better regional interconnectivity, also
to attract investors from the region. Egypt’s $200 million Entrepreneurship for Job
Creation Project seeks to improve the environment for start-ups, c­ atalyzing opportunities for investors to invest in innovative local firms.

Building resilience to forced displacement
In countries across the region, especially Djibouti, Iraq, Jordan, and Lebanon, the
forcibly displaced, including refugees and internally displaced persons, continue to
pose challenges for local services. In Djibouti, where many displaced people and
refugees have settled in cities, a $20 million project partly supported by the IDA18
Refugee Sub-Window is improving access to urban and social services and better
job opportunities for more than 120,000 residents. In Jordan, $141 million in additional financing for the Emergency Health Project will focus on health services for
Syrian refugees and their host communities.
The latter project will also receive concessional funding from the Global Concessional Financing Facility (GCFF), which is supported by funds from nine supporting
countries and the EU for middle-income countries affected by refugee crises. To
date, the GCFF has approved $452 million for nine Bank-funded operations in the
Middle East and North Africa, which in turn has leveraged $2.1 billion.

Supporting economic recovery and reconstruction
Recovery and reconstruction—including assisting populations in the midst of conflict where the authorizing environment allows—is an important part of our regional
strategy, particularly as conflicts abate or end. Iraq’s $200 million Electricity Services
Reconstruction and Enhancement Project will support repairs and service expansion,

FIGURE 5  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2019
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.5 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

6%
0%

Transportation

	

Education

16%

Energy and Extractives

15%

Information and
Communications Technologies
Industry, Trade, and Services

10%

13%

Social Protection

Public Administration

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

0%

18%

6%
10%

6%

Financial Sector

Health

THE REGIONS 	

35

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

while encouraging private investment. In Gaza, which is still recovering from conflict
and subject to bouts of violence, the $17 million Gaza Emergency Cash for Work and
Self-Employment Support Project supports small entrepreneurs, as well as the poor
though cash transfers, while $10 million in additional financing for the Emergency
Labor-Intensive Gaza Project provides temporary employment opportunities for
vulnerable populations. In fiscal 2019, the Republic of Yemen received three grants
totaling $540 million for health and nutrition, urban services, temporary employment, and emergency provision of electricity.

SPOTLIGHT
SUPPORTING FINANCIAL INCLUSION AND THE DIGITAL ECONOMY IN
MOROCCO
Morocco has made significant social and economic progress over the past 15 years, due
to large public investments and wide-ranging reforms, while successfully ensuring macroeconomic stability. Yet substantial development challenges remain. Job creation is down;
unemployment is high, particularly among youth and women; service delivery is inadequate; and social and territorial disparities persist. Private sector development, which
is key for new jobs, is hampered by lack of inclusion, with poor access to finance for
entrepreneurs and small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The education system is not
delivering the skills required for jobs.
This has led to a comprehensive response from the Bank in support of the government’s
2017–21 program, which is reinforced by national strategies for digital development and
financial inclusion. The jointly developed Financial Inclusion and Digital Economy Program
not only aims to unlock Morocco’s entrepreneurial potential, especially among youth and
women, but also use digital technologies to expand financial inclusion and support startups and SMEs. This made the project an ideal regional launch platform for our efforts
to create, within a short time-bound period, modern broadband coverage for all and a
nationwide digital payment system. The expected time for completion is 2021.
The program includes three interlinked components. The first pillar aims to enhance
financial inclusion by diversifying traditional and alternative financing instruments with
institutional and regulatory changes targeting microfinance, agro-finance, and insurance,
with a special focus on women. The second pillar supports development of digital platforms and infrastructure, with a focus on expanding connectivity and mobile payments,
while the third pillar provides support to digital entrepreneurs. With strong ownership
from the government and the Moroccan private sector, the project will showcase its
achievement during the 2021 IMF-World Bank Annual Meetings in Marrakech.

36	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

TABLE 11  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			
CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

279	

333	

383 	

Population growth (annual %)	

1.8	

1.8	

1.7	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

1,576	 3,983	3,868
	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

2.6	

3.4	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)c	

10b	 8	16c

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

71	

74	

75	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

68	

70	

71	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

80	 84	87
	

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

89	 91	92
	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

872	

1,282	

1.3	
	

1,418	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

3.4b	 2.3	4.2c
	

SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)d	

23	 18	15
	

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
125	99	90
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	
	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

46	 30	25
	

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

81	 91	89
	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

24	 25	25
	

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

4	 11	17
	

SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic drinking
water (% population)	

87	 90	92
	

SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
facilities (% population)	

83	 86	88
	

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

91	 95	98
	

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

3	 3	3
	

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the internet
(% population)	

<1	 21	50
	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2018; visit data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 Poverty data for the region is from 2015 and may have changed as a result of conflict or fragility in the region.
d.	For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/mena and
data.worldbank.org/country.

	

THE REGIONS 	

37

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

South Asia
South Asia remains the fastest-growing region in the world, with growth projected
at 6.9 percent in 2019, 7.0 in 2020, and 7.1 percent in 2021, driven by strong private
consumption, recovering exports, and investments due to policy reforms and infrastructure upgrades. The region has also experienced political stability, with democratic and peaceful transition of governments in most countries. Risks to the outlook
mainly stem from domestic factors, including weak exports, slow progress on fiscal
consolidation, high deficits, and disruptions due to natural disasters.
Robust growth has translated into declining poverty and impressive improvements in health and education. But as of 2015, the proportion of people living
on less than $1.90 a day was still an estimated 12.4 percent, or about 216 million
people1—a third of the global poor—and multidimensional poverty is higher than
the global average. Many countries in the region also suffer from extreme forms of
social exclusion and significant infrastructure gaps. The region has also seen one
of the largest refugee inflows in modern times, with more than 740,000 Rohingya
refugees fleeing to Bangladesh since August 2017, according to UN estimates.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $8.9 billion in lending to the region for 54 operations in
fiscal 2019, including $4.0 billion in IBRD loans and $4.9 billion in IDA commitments.
We also delivered 178 advisory services and analytical products to eight countries,
totaling $79 million, providing technical advice on issues such as energy sector
reform, female labor force participation, and climate change.
Our regional strategy emphasizes promoting sustainable and inclusive growth,
investing in people, and strengthening resilience. It focuses on supporting policy
reforms for private sector–led job creation; addressing stunting with multisectoral solutions; increasing female labor force participation; supporting refugees,
returnees, and internally displaced persons; and addressing climate risks, including
through disaster preparedness and management.

Supporting sustainable growth and creating jobs
The region can sustain high growth only if both investments and exports grow
stronger. With an estimated 1.5 million people entering the job market every month
over the next two decades, job creation is essential. To address these challenges, the
Bank supports efforts such as the $250 million Jobs Programmatic Development
Policy Project in Bangladesh to address jobs challenges and strengthen systems
that protect workers and build resilience. In Afghanistan, the $100 million Women’s

This estimate is based on a regional population coverage of less than 40 percent. The criterion
for estimating survey population coverage is whether at least one survey used in the reference year
estimate was conducted within two years of the reference year.
1

TABLE 12  SOUTH ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2017–19
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	
FY17	 FY18	FY19	

IBRD	
IDA	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY17	FY18	FY19

2,233	 4,508	4,011	 1,454	1,698	2,598
3,828	 6,153	4,849	 3,970	3,835	4,159

Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2019: $53.4 billion.

38	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

Economic Empowerment Rural Development Project aims to increase the social and
economic empowerment of poor rural women.
The Bank Group is also helping countries maximize their development resources
by drawing on sustainable private sector solutions. In Nepal, a $100 million project—
the first in a series of two—is supporting the financial viability and governance of
the electricity sector, while the IDA18 IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window will provide
$103 million in financing and guarantees for the Upper Trishuli-1 Hydropower Plant,
lowering risk and encouraging the private sector to invest. In India, the $400 million Innovation in Solar Power and Hybrid Technologies Project supports renewable
energy and battery energy storage solutions.

Investing in people and supporting inclusive growth
To strengthen human capital as a driver of growth, the Bank is helping the region
improve access to and quality of education, address childhood stunting and malnutrition, strengthen health systems and services, and expand safety nets to protect
the poorest. Alongside development partners, we organized human capital summits in Bhutan, Nepal, and Pakistan. The new Pakistan@100: Shaping the Future
report emphasized the country’s urgent need to invest more and better in its people, if they are to be richer, better educated, and healthier by 2047. Meanwhile,
initiatives such as the $400 million Program toward Elimination of Tuberculosis in
India build on earlier efforts to improve the quality and accessibility of health and
nutrition services.

Fostering resilience to conflict and climate change
Conflict and fragility risks are increasing in South Asia, resulting in greater displacement and growing border tensions. We are working with partners to provide basic
services to the displaced and hosting communities, such as the $200 million grant
for the Afghanistan Eshteghal Zaiee–Karmondena Project, which aims to strengthen
jobs and economic opportunities in cities with a high influx of displaced people.
South Asia is also highly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, including
climate-induced natural disasters and rising sea levels. The South Asia’s Hotspots:
Impacts of Temperature and Precipitation Changes on Living Standards report
suggests that 800 million people in the region live in areas where livelihoods are
vulnerable to climate change impacts. Progress depends on reducing carbon emissions, changing the energy mix, mitigating the effects of climate change, and building resilience. For example, the $125 million Climate-Smart Irrigated Agriculture
Project in Sri Lanka will improve agricultural productivity and diversification through
the adoption of climate-smart practices and better water management. The
$246 million Andhra Pradesh Integrated Irrigation and Agriculture Transformation
Project in India aims to enhance productivity, profitability, and climate resilience
FIGURE 6  SOUTH ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2019
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $8.9 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

8%

Transportation

20%

Social Protection

3%

Public Administration

15%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

13%

6%

11%

Information and
Communications Technologies

	

4%

7%

Education
Energy and Extractives

2%

Financial Sector

11%

Health

Industry, Trade, and Services

THE REGIONS 	

39

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

for smallholder farmers. The $175 million Bangladesh Sustainable Forests and
Livelihoods Project will improve forest management and increase benefits for
forest-dependent communities, with emphasis on women and adolescent girls.

Promoting regional integration
South Asia remains one of the least economically integrated regions in the world.
Hence we support cross-border trade, transport and energy connectivity, and longterm water security and environmental sustainability in the region. The $460 million
Khyber Pass Economic Corridor Project aims to expand economic activity between
Pakistan and Afghanistan by improving regional connectivity and promoting private
sector development along this key corridor. The Exports to Jobs: Boosting the Gains
from Trade in South Asia report analyzes how labor market policies can help various
groups of workers acquire the right skills and ensure that the gains of increased
exports are shared more broadly across societies. Our report, A Glass Half Full: The
Promise of Regional Trade in South Asia, unpacks critical barriers to trade integration and offers precise, actionable policy recommendations that could help achieve
measurable progress in key areas of trade and integration, benefiting all countries
in the region.

SPOTLIGHT
MAKING NEPAL AN ATTRACTIVE DESTINATION FOR INVESTMENT
Four years ago, Nepal was reeling from a devastating earthquake that claimed thousands
of lives. Today, its future looks considerably brighter. Extreme poverty is steadily falling,
and growth has remained relatively strong for the last two years. For the first time in
decades, Nepal also has a stable, majority government to carry out a long-term development vision. New laws aim to encourage foreign direct investment, improve the business
climate, and protect intellectual property.
This combination of factors helped attract more than 700 foreign investors from over
300 companies representing 40 countries at the Nepal Investment Summit, organized by
the government in March 2019. When the summit concluded, some 15 deals had been
signed to develop hydro and solar power, 5G network services, a high-end resort, grain storage warehouses, and public-private partnerships. Investors’ applications were also received
for 11 other projects in response to the 77 that were showcased by the government.
The Bank Group hosted a pre-summit roadshow in Malaysia and Singapore to help
raise interest among investors in those countries. The Bank Group’s financial and technical support for the summit reaffirms the 50-plus year engagement with Nepal and supports our commitment to the country’s ambitious goal of becoming a middle-income
country by 2030.

40	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

TABLE 13  SOUTH ASIA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			
CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

1,391	

1,639	

1,814 	

Population growth (annual %)	

1.9	

1.4	

1.2	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

444	 1,153	1,925

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

2.1	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

6.2	

555b	401	274
	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

64	

68	

71	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

62	

66	

67	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

63	 77	86
	

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

80	 87	90
	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

	

5.5	

1,181	

1,969	

2,516	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)c	

38.6b	24.6	16.1
	
51	 42	35
	

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
388	 228	182
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	
	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

94	 63	45
	

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

70	 88	95
	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

36	 34	34

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

8	 20	18
	

SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic drinking
water (% population)	

82	 86	88
	

SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
facilities (% population)	

24	 39	46
	

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

57	 75	86
	

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

53	 42	38
	

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the internet
(% population)	

<1	 7	30
	

	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2018; visit data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.

For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/sar and
data.worldbank.org/country.

	

THE REGIONS 	

41

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

Providing Sustainable Development
Solutions for Our Clients
TODAY, THE GLOBAL POVERTY RATE IS AT ITS LOWEST POINT EVER—a testament

to the success of development efforts by the international community to end
extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity. But progress is slowing, with
poverty remaining high or even increasing in some places, particularly in SubSaharan Africa. The impressive gains are also threatened by global challenges:
tightening macroeconomic prospects, fiscal strains on governments, natural
disasters, slow income growth for the poorest, record levels of displacement, and
ongoing conflict and fragility. These challenges are further compounded by softening global growth and downside risks, including trade barriers, renewed financial
stress, and slowdowns in major economies.
To protect countries’ hard-earned gains and accelerate progress, the World Bank
works closely with partners to support inclusive and sustainable economic growth,
promote more and better investments in people, and build resilience. We do this
by serving all clients, creating markets, mobilizing finance for development, and
leading on global issues. These pillars are outlined in the Bank Group’s overarching
strategic framework and vision, the Forward Look, which lays out the pathway for
supporting the 2030 development agenda and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Our unique strength in the development sphere comes from our global experience, our extensive knowledge in a broad range of sectors, and our ability to
convene key stakeholders. We take a multisectoral view, helping maximize impact
and provide more holistic solutions, whether in ensuring that women and girls
have access to safe and reliable transport, building resilient infrastructure that can
withstand climate impacts, or improving health systems in areas affected by fragility, conflict, and violence. Through work that spans regions and sectors, we are
helping countries find sustainable solutions to their development challenges in an
increasingly complex and interconnected world.

	

PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS 	

43

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

INCLUSIVE, SUSTAINABLE GROWTH

Promoting debt transparency
Debt financing is critical for development. Used wisely, it can help countries finance
investments and achieve sustained and inclusive growth. But indebtedness is
resurfacing as a risk across emerging and developing economies, underscoring
the need for prudent management of public debt through sound institutions,
processes, and capacity.
Our work on public debt management is aimed at enhancing three main
aspects. By promoting debt transparency, sovereign borrowers will be able to make
informed borrowing decisions, while creditors and rating agencies will be able to
assess sovereign creditworthiness and price debt instruments properly. Through
effective debt and fiscal risk management, countries can reduce their financial vulnerabilities, contribute to macroeconomic stability, preserve debt sustainability, and
protect their reputation among investors. By better monitoring and managing the
fiscal risks from contingent liabilities, countries can ensure that their debt levels do
not reach unsustainable levels.
In 2018, the Bank and the IMF announced a new collaborative work program,
the Bank-Fund Multipronged Approach for Addressing Emerging Debt Vulnerabilities. This work is taking place in the context of the global development agenda—
including the SDGs—and supports better monitoring of debt vulnerabilities,
structural reforms to help reduce debt vulnerabilities, greater debt transparency,
and scaled-up capacity building on debt management. Key elements of this effort
and other aspects of sustainable financing were laid out in recent IMF-Bank notes
for the G-20.
Working with the IMF, we also implemented the revised Debt Sustainability
Framework for low-income countries. It allows creditors to tailor their financing
terms in anticipation of future risks and helps countries balance the need for funds
with the ability to repay their debts. The framework guides countries in supporting
the SDGs when their ability to service debt is limited.
The Bank Group’s signature Debt Management Facility provides advisory support, training, analytical tools, and peer-to-peer learning that strengthen countries’
ability to manage debt. Since its inception in 2008, it has supported capacity building and reforms in over 75 countries and implemented more than 290 technical
assistance missions. In 2019, the Bank launched the third phase of the facility to
scale up support on debt management and transparency.

Promoting a vision of global trade that benefits all
Trade is an important engine of growth that creates jobs, reduces poverty, and
increases economic opportunity. Since 1990, growth underpinned by open trade
has helped over 1 billion people escape poverty. Trade can also improve women’s
economic inclusion. Exporters in developing countries employ more women than
non-exporters, with women comprising up to 90 percent of the workforce in export
processing zones.
To ensure that every member of society can reap the benefits of trade, the Bank
Group promotes a broad range of reforms and investments, including more resilient
economies with strong safety nets; education that prepares students for the jobs of
the future; and retraining, job search assistance, and relocation benefits that help
workers transition to new jobs.
Global value chains are an integral part of open trade and a key contributor to job
creation. They help less diversified and smaller economies find niches in the global
economy. Many countries have managed to see substantial growth gains through this

44	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

Helping countries gather data on poverty trends
Despite tremendous global progress in reducing extreme poverty, rates remain stubbornly
high in low-income countries and those affected by conflict and political upheaval. The
total number of poor people has been increasing in Sub-Saharan Africa, where more of the
world’s extreme poor lived in 2015 than in the rest of the world combined. By 2030, under
all but the most optimistic scenarios, poverty in the region will remain in double digits.
Tackling this challenge starts with more and better data. In 2015, the Bank committed
to helping the world’s poorest countries conduct household surveys every three years, an
increase in frequency that is crucial to understanding progress against poverty. With our
support, 41 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa conducted household surveys between 2015
and 2018, versus just 18 between 2012 and 2015. Between 2018 and 2020, an estimated
34 countries—with 76 percent of the region’s population—will conduct a survey. We will
keep up this momentum in Africa and elsewhere.

approach, including Bangladesh, Costa Rica, Lesotho, Vietnam, and, most recently,
Ethiopia. Value chains are the focus of the 2020 World Development Report.

Leveraging economic transformation to create more,
better, and inclusive jobs
Economic growth has the power to transform societies, boost incomes, and help
citizens thrive, but growth alone is not enough. To reduce poverty and ensure
shared prosperity, growth needs to create more, better, and inclusive jobs. Improving financial access, strengthening skills training, supporting a strong private sector,
and building sustainable infrastructure all connect people to job opportunities that
can help end extreme poverty in the poorest countries.
Close to 600 million people will be looking for jobs over the next decade, mostly
in the world’s poorest countries. South Asia alone will need to create more than
13 million jobs a year to keep pace with its expanding population. In Sub-Saharan
Africa, despite a smaller population, the challenge will be even greater—15 million
new jobs will be needed annually. And with 60 percent of its population under the
age of 24, the Middle East and North Africa will need to create 10 million jobs each
year. Most developing countries face three challenges: creating more jobs in the

	

PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS 	

45

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

formal sector, increasing the quality of informal jobs, and connecting vulnerable
groups to jobs or to better jobs.
The Bank helps developing countries design and implement integrated, multisectoral job strategies. First, Jobs Diagnostics help client countries identify key jobs
challenges at the macro, firm, and household levels; the diagnostics are an integral
part of our Systematic Country Diagnostics and Country Partnership Frameworks.
Second, we help mobilize global knowledge to identify solutions to common jobs
challenges. Third, we help countries implement job strategies through lending and
investment operations and policy reforms. In addition, we design monitoring and
evaluation tools to standardize how jobs outcomes are measured in projects.
IDA has been at the forefront in supporting countries’ efforts to create jobs, with
jobs and economic transformation identified as one of the special themes under
our current three-year funding cycle for IDA, known as IDA18. We are funding innovative projects, using financial instruments and enhanced analytics and applying
new tools to evaluate and measure jobs impact. As of June 2019, the Bank has 579
active jobs-related projects, representing investments of about $78 billion.
In Jordan, a Program for Results provides a holistic approach to the influx of
Syrian refugees, helping both host communities and refugees. It seeks to attract
new investments and facilitate easier access to the EU market with simplified rules
of origin, helping create jobs for Jordanians and Syrian refugees while supporting
the post-conflict Syrian economy. The project has issued almost 43,000 work permits for refugees, with a target of 130,000 by December 2019.

Building effective and accountable institutions that serve
all citizens
The Bank’s country opinion surveys consistently show that corruption and governance issues are among the top concerns of our client countries. We help them
tackle corruption to improve institutional quality and capacity and strengthen the
social contract. In Indonesia, we carried out three phases of a Public Expenditure
Review. The result was greater budget allocation to pro-growth and pro-poor programs, as well as more effective program design and implementation in sectors as
diverse as social protection, education, health, and water.
In Liberia, we supported improvements in pay and performance through the
strengthening of payroll management in the public sector. The project helped
improve the transparency and predictability of salaries and human resources issues
such as career tracks, grade, recruitment, and promotion. It also helped improve
management of the wage bill.
Revenue shortfalls pose challenges for the ability of poorer and fragile countries
to fund development priorities and ensure macroeconomic stability. In addition to
offering diagnostic assessments, the Bank works with governments to raise additional resources through policy reforms to broaden tax bases, as well as to improve
compliance, enforcement, and collection through technology.

Ensuring that markets can spur private sector growth
The Bank Group is helping countries mobilize more resources for development,
with a focus on deeper involvement from private investors. Our approach combines
upstream help in implementing market enabling reforms with downstream financial
and technical support to projects. Through our lending and advisory services, we
help lower public sector risks and barriers to entry for the private sector. The focus
includes supporting sound fiscal policy and macroeconomic management, promoting micro-reforms, and improving the ease of doing business in a country.

46	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

The Country Private Sector Diagnostic is a new Bank Group product that aims to
assess a country’s economy-wide and sector-specific constraints to private sector
investment and identify policy recommendations to address them. We now have
diagnostics underway in more than 25 countries. In Nepal, for example, a development policy operation is addressing the cross-cutting recommendations made
by the diagnostic. The country has set up a Better Regulation Unit in the Prime
Minister’s office, and the Bank Group is advising on a transport master plan. We will
also help increase financial access, improve skills, and aid the energy, tourism, and
agribusiness sectors.
The Joint Capital Markets Program is a Bank Group approach focusing on eight
countries and one subregion to develop markets through joint diagnostics and
sector initiatives that are reinforced by transformative demonstration transactions.
It aims to strengthen government efforts to crowd in private sector investments
for development and support our G-20 commitment on local capital markets and
financial resilience. It mobilizes experts from across the Bank Group and client
countries to create markets, unlock synergies, and encourage systemic impact.
Establishing and maintaining financial stability is also a key driver of growth. The
Financial Sector Assessment Program, a joint initiative with the IMF, has promoted
policy dialogue and financial sector reforms for 20 years. Eight assessments have
been completed, with another 10 ongoing or initiated this year. The program is
evolving to cover topics such as fintech, cybersecurity, and climate risk, reflecting its
flexibility and changes in the financial policy landscape.

Providing financing and solutions for infrastructure
Helping countries meet the basic service and infrastructure needs articulated in
the SDGs—while meeting the rising aspirations of billions around the globe—is an
enduring challenge. We take an integrated approach to improving and financing
infrastructure in developing countries, focusing on broader access, higher quality
services, greater affordability, and sustainability.
Underpinning this work is the Bank Group’s commitment to crowding in all
sources of finance, innovation, and expertise to deliver infrastructure. The aim is
to preserve scarce public resources for areas where private sector financing is not
optimal or available. This also means intensified collaboration among the World
Bank, IFC, and MIGA. At the project level, Bank Group staff determine whether there
is a sustainable and affordable private solution for an infrastructure challenge. If not,
we look at how reforming policy and addressing risks—including solutions to lower
risks that are made possible by the IDA18 IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window—could
advance this result. We ground our project work in a shared vision with client countries on sectoral transformation to improve financial viability and service delivery.
At the country level, the Bank Group has developed a standardized approach for
assessing a country’s potential to leverage private sector finance and expertise to
deliver on priority infrastructure investments and performance improvements. This
approach, called an infrastructure sector assessment program (InfraSAP), provides
a coordinated package of policy reforms, advisory services, and investment to find
the right mix of public and private solutions.
Several partnerships and funding mechanisms support this work. The Global
Infrastructure Facility (GIF) supports project preparation, structuring, and advisory to clients in developing countries. As of June 30, 2019, GIF’s portfolio of 70
projects is expected to mobilize over $66 billion in total investments. In 2019, the
Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility celebrated 20 years of supporting
stronger developing-country investment climates. The Quality Infrastructure Investment Partnership, established by the Bank and the Japanese government, scales
up the design of projects with a focus on efficiency, sustainability, and resilience
against natural disasters.

	

PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS 	

47

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Expanding access to electricity and scaling up clean energy
The Bank is one of the largest providers of finance for renewable energy and energy
efficiency projects in developing countries. We are also helping countries transition
to clean energy through financing, risk mitigation measures, and guarantees, as well
as technical and policy advice.
Globally, 840 million people have no access to electricity, with over 570 million of
them living in Sub-Saharan Africa. Between fiscal 2014 and 2018, the Bank helped
provide new electricity connections for more than 52 million people and significantly expanded support to energy access. During IDA18, we will contribute more
than $1 billion to grid and off-grid solutions for electricity access in countries with
the highest deficits, including Cameroon, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar,
Mozambique, and Zambia. We also manage a clean cooking and heating portfolio
of more than $350 million; our programs in 37 countries have reached nearly 20
million people.
In 2018, the Bank announced a $1 billion program to accelerate investments in
battery storage for energy systems in developing countries, with the aim of attracting another $4 billion in public and private financing. In South Africa, we are working to develop 1,440 megawatt hours of battery storage capacity to enable the
integration of current and future variable renewable energy capacity. In India, the
Innovation in Solar Power and Hybrid Technologies Project will help strengthen
institutional capacity to facilitate scale-up of innovative renewable energy technologies, including battery storage solutions.
Coupled with our support for an enabling policy environment and sector
reforms, our energy financing is designed to advance public-private partnerships
and mobilize private investments. In Armenia, for example, we supported the country’s first competitively tendered solar project, which attracted a competitive tariff.
In Cameroon, the Nachtigal Hydropower Project benefited from Bank guarantees
and will allow the country to increase installed generation capacity by 30 percent.
In May 2019, we launched a Climate-Smart Mining Facility dedicated to improving the sustainability of mining for minerals and metals that are essential to the
clean energy transition. It helps emerging economies benefit from the increasing
demand for these strategic minerals and metals.

Connecting people to services and opportunities
Transport is critical to social and economic development and ending extreme poverty. Mobility solutions connect billions of people to jobs, education, and health
services; help make cities and countries competitive and inclusive; and promote
global trade and growth. In rural Morocco, better access to roads tripled girls’ school
enrollment. In Thailand, reducing traffic fatalities by 50 percent could add 22 percent to the country’s GDP over two decades.
To be sustainable, transport must meet four essential goals. It should be accessible for all, including the poor, women, and vulnerable populations. It should be
green; transport generates 23 percent of energy-related greenhouse gas emissions.
It should be safe; road crashes claim the lives of 1.3 million people annually. And it
should be efficient; traffic congestion costs cities millions of dollars every day, which
technology could help reduce.
In fiscal 2019, the World Bank–led Sustainable Mobility for All Initiative developed the Global Roadmap of Action toward Sustainable Mobility, the first-ever look
across the four goals for policy measures that could help countries address transport
challenges holistically. We also launched a ground-breaking report that lays out
principles for electric mobility programs around the world. In addition, we pushed
for partnerships between African academic institutions and those in developed
economies to boost capacity building for transport professionals. Promoting connectivity and climate resilience in small island countries, a vital development priority,
48	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

was also a focus in fiscal 2019, with eight approved projects totaling almost $240
million in Africa and the Pacific.

Managing natural resources at the tipping point
The world’s natural resources are under intense strain, with polluted oceans,
unhealthy air, degraded landscapes, and dwindling fish stocks. We are helping
countries value their natural capital so that they can make policy and investment
choices that support sustainable development. Our Blue Economy Program and
the new PROBLUE Trust Fund help address the threat posed by marine pollution,
supporting better management of fisheries and aquaculture and more sustainable
coastal development. Another new initiative, the Global Program on Sustainability,
is working with 18 countries to value and measure the economic contribution of
natural assets like forests, land, and water.
Tackling air pollution is also a priority: in 2016, it cost the global economy $5.7
trillion—4.8 percent of global GDP. We are helping the countries hit hardest, including the Arab Republic of Egypt, India, and Nigeria. In China’s Hebei province, we are
supporting efforts to control emissions from industry, agriculture, mobile sources,
area pollution and dust, and energy generation. From 2013 to 2017, China’s three
regions with the worst air quality averaged a 36 percent decrease in concentrations
of particle pollution, partly through interventions supported by the Bank.
We are bringing innovative approaches to forest conservation, including payments for reducing carbon emissions from deforestation. The Democratic Republic
of Congo and Mozambique, for example, signed landmark Emission Reductions
Payment Agreements with the Bank in 2018, unlocking results-based payments and
rewarding communities that are working to protect forests.

Transforming food systems for farmers, consumers, and
the planet
Some 79 percent of the extreme poor live in rural areas, with about 500 million
smallholder farmers among the world’s poorest groups. About one in three people is not eating enough or eating unhealthy food, contributing to food insecurity,
anemia, obesity, and non-communicable diseases. Food systems currently account

	

PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS 	

49

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions, 70 percent of freshwater withdrawal,
and many forms of pollution.
The Bank is working to help realign incentives and reward farmers for sustainably
producing safe, healthy, and affordable food; partners include the World Resources
Institute, EAT, and the Food and Land Use Coalition. We are also helping countries
transform food systems through a range of tools and programs. These include diagnostic work to understand what drives food loss and waste; new technology such as
the Ag Observatory, which provides real-time analysis of weather anomalies affecting agriculture; inputs and technical assistance that support a shift to climate-smart
practices; and public-private partnerships to revitalize valuable food supply chains
and create jobs. For example, in Uruguay, we are supporting government efforts to
help farmers adopt more climate-smart practices by deploying new technologies. By
2021, around 25 percent of the country’s arable land will be under sustainable land
management, strengthening resilience and productivity while reducing emissions.

Achieving a water-secure world for all
Water touches every aspect of development. But a host of challenges—gaps in
access to water supply and sanitation, rapid urbanization and population growth,
pollution, climate impacts, and more water-intensive patterns of growth—are making water insecurity one of the greatest threats to economic progress, poverty alleviation, and sustainable development.
To achieve a water-secure world for all, we are working with countries and partners to improve resource management, facilitate universal access to water and sanitation, and optimize water use in agriculture. This also helps build resilience through
systems that can better withstand climate extremes while addressing fragility in
water-stressed countries.
In Angola, we helped create and strengthen six water supply utilities that are
providing household services to over 800,000 new customers; the project also
helped establish a new regulator and a water resources management institution. In
Vietnam’s Mekong Delta, we supported investments in water infrastructure to mitigate the impacts of flooding and saline intrusion exacerbated by climate change;
helping protect and enhance the use of water resources bolsters gains in agricultural productivity, benefiting 215,000 farmers’ households.
By bringing innovation, new knowledge and evidence, and flexibility to Bank
lending operations, the Global Water Security and Sanitation Partnership, a multi­
donor trust fund launched in 2017, helps client countries build capacity and
strengthen the institutions, infrastructure, and inventiveness needed to adequately
supply current and future generations with water, food, and energy. The 2030 Water
Resources Group—a public-private–civil society partnership—supports governmentaccelerated reforms with the aim of ensuring sustainable water resources management for the long-term development and economic growth of their countries.

Harnessing digital innovation for greater access and
opportunity
Digital technologies can help address some of the toughest development challenges by connecting people to services and opportunities. But technology trends
also pose risks that include disruption of labor markets and livelihoods. Many developing countries lack the skills, firms, and legal and regulatory frameworks to harness
technology’s potential. The Bank helps countries create the economic framework for
digital transformation, identify new determinants of competitiveness and growth,
and enable new business models brought about by technological change. We also
work with governments to identify constraints to technology-led development. The

50	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

Public Expenditure Review for Science, Technology, and Innovation, for example, is
a new diagnostic tool that helps governments formulate policies, adopt good practices, and improve coordination. It has been piloted in Chile, Colombia, and Ukraine.
Today, about 4 billion people are still not connected to broadband internet, and
in the least developed countries, only one in seven people has access. This digital
divide can worsen existing inequalities and leave parts of the world behind. To
help bridge this gap, the Bank has enabled 20 African countries to connect to
broadband submarine cables and is committed to doubling broadband connectivity across Africa by 2021. This is a key milestone of our support to the ambitious
Digital Transformation Agenda launched by the African Union in 2019, which aims
to digitally enable all people, businesses, and governments across the continent
by 2030. This will help turn the opportunities provided by the digital economy
into new pathways for growth, economic mobility, innovation, job creation, and
access to affordable services. The focus includes promoting digital infrastructure,
platforms, financial services, entrepreneurship, and skills.
Digital technology is also driving growth in the so-called “gig economy,” where
organizations and individuals contract with independent workers for short-term
engagements. These new forms of work blur the line between formal and casual
employment, challenging social protection models that assume most people are in
stable employer-employee contracts. The digital era is also shifting the demand for
skills. Adaptability is increasingly valued by the labor market, while the changing
nature of work means that skills acquisition must be a matter of lifelong learning.
For societies to benefit from the potential that technology offers, they need a new
social contract centered on larger investments to protect those at risk.
Despite decades of efforts to broaden the formal economy, informality still averages 65 percent globally. The changing nature of work intensifies the need to focus
on human capital and rethink social protection. To fund these critical investments,
the World Development Report 2019: The Changing Nature of Work offers suggestions on how governments can mobilize more revenues. Property taxes in large
cities, excise taxes on sugar or tobacco, and carbon taxes are among the ways to
increase a government’s revenue, along with elimination of tax avoidance strategies
that many firms use to increase their profits.
Digital technology also presents opportunities to improve access to public services and promote more inclusive development. About 1 billion people worldwide
have no way of proving their identity and are thus excluded from crucial services
and opportunities. In 2019, our Identification for Development (ID4D) initiative
launched the “Mission Billion” global challenge to help find innovative ways to provide digital identification that is secure and protects privacy.
Meanwhile, fintech continues to have global impact on financial services. Mobile
payment services have been among the key early developers, with broad implications for inclusion. New entrants to the market are challenging incumbents, who are
responding. This evolution could boost competition and efficiency, while raising
new risks to financial stability and integrity. Balancing competing policy priorities
is also a key challenge. In response to calls from countries for greater cooperation
and guidance to address these issues, the Bank Group and the IMF published the
Bali Fintech Agenda in October 2018. The agenda is comprised of 12 high-level
considerations for policymakers and the international community to harness the
opportunities and manage the potential risks posed by fintech.
To promote the use of technology in making public services more efficient,
transparent, and accountable, the Bank launched the GovTech Global Initiative in
2019. This partnership convenes key stakeholders in digital governance, including governments, technology companies, IT experts, development partners, and
civil society organizations. It aims to ensure that developing countries are not left
behind by digital innovation.

	

PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS 	

51

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

INVESTING IN PEOPLE

Unleashing the real wealth of nations by investing in
human capital
Investing in people—through nutrition, quality health care, education, social protection, jobs, and skills—helps develop human capital, a key driver of economic
growth, and is critical to ending extreme poverty and creating more inclusive societies. To drive more and better investments in people, the Bank’s Human Capital
Project is mobilizing countries and partners for a world in which all girls and boys
grow up well-nourished and ready to learn; attain real learning in school; and enter
the job market as healthy, skilled, and productive adults. To date, more than 60
countries have joined the project. Our work with countries emphasizes building the
efficiency and quality of services, policy reforms, and domestic resource mobilization, so that countries aren’t just spending more—but spending better.
Countries are already taking concrete actions to improve outcomes in the areas
of social protection and jobs, financing and accountability, education, health, and
gender—as well as essential services like water, sanitation, and electricity—all of
which are critical to building human capital.
As part of the project, the Bank launched the Human Capital Index at our Annual
Meetings in October 2018 in Indonesia. It links outcomes in health and education
to productivity and economic growth and shows that nearly 60 percent of children
born today in the 157 countries covered will be, at best, half as productive as they
could be with good health and quality education. The index is based on measurement of child survival and nutrition, expected years of schooling and quality of
learning, and health status.
In April 2019, we unveiled the Africa Human Capital Plan to help the region
strengthen its investments in people and enable its young people to grow up with
optimal health and the skills to compete in the digitizing global economy. The plan
sets ambitious targets to be achieved by 2023, including a drastic reduction in child
mortality to save 4 million lives, averting stunting for more than 11 million children,
and increasing schools’ learning outcomes by 20 percent. It also aims to empower
women and girls through programs that prevent early marriage and pregnancy for
adolescent girls. The Bank will increase investments in human capital in Africa by
50 percent in the next funding cycle.

Delivering systemic change in education
Education is fundamental to building the human capital that allows people and
countries to thrive. While developing countries have made tremendous strides in
getting children into the classroom, more than 260 million children worldwide are
still not in school. And for those in school, learning is not guaranteed; in Sub-Saharan
Africa, almost 90 percent of students lack minimum proficiency in reading and math.
Education systems in developing countries need to be strengthened and aligned
to ensure that all children learn. The Bank helps countries develop and improve
their systems as well as identify the interventions needed to deliver learning. We
are moving away from financing inputs to financing systemic reforms, where all
inputs—textbooks, hardware, teachers’ support, and curriculums—are part of a
holistic effort that leads to better learning.
The Bank is the largest financier of education in the developing world, with
programs in over 80 countries. In fiscal 2019, we provided $3.0 billion for education programs, technical assistance, and other projects designed to improve
learning outcomes and provide everyone with the opportunity to succeed. Our
current portfolio totals $16.0 billion, highlighting the importance of education
for accelerating progress in building human capital. Our focus is five key drivers
52	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Increasing living standards for women to achieve human
capital potential
In many countries, girls and women face barriers that prevent them from translating human capital investments into the same economic opportunities as boys
and men. Globally, countries are losing $160 trillion in wealth due to differences
in lifetime earnings between men and women.
Priorities to close gender gaps include reducing maternal mortality, ensuring better coverage of reproductive health services, and expanding access to
early childhood education. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, our Health
Systems Strengthening Project supports adolescent sexual and reproductive
health, addresses risks of early pregnancy and maternal death, and helps parents
plan families and improve child nutrition.
To reduce barriers to women’s employment opportunities, we focus on
access to care services from early childhood to old age and are working with
governments and the private sector to develop parental leave policies that
enable women and men to balance care responsibilities. Our Burkina Faso Youth
Employment and Skills Development Project, for example, provides mobile child
care for workers in labor-intensive public works. In Turkey, where the female
labor force participation rate is 35 percent, a Bank project is advising on new
tax incentives for private nursery schools to increase child care supply as well
as labor market regulations to introduce more flexible work. Other priorities
include tackling occupational sex segregation, ensuring safe and affordable
transportation, and helping women access digital economy opportunities.
We are also helping countries remove barriers to women’s ownership and
control of assets such as land and housing, as well as improve access to finance,
technology, and insurance services. In the utilities sector, an increasing number of
operations support women’s participation in decision making.
Unleashing the potential of women entrepreneurs supports more inclusive
global growth, job creation, and poverty reduction. The Women Entrepreneurs
Finance Initiative (We-Fi), launched in 2017, is a partnership of 14 governments,
six multilateral development banks, and numerous other stakeholders in the
public and private sectors that aims to unlock financing for women-led and
-owned businesses in developing countries. During two calls for proposals in
2018 and 2019, We-Fi allocated $249 million to multilateral development bank
programs that will benefit over 114,000 such businesses and aim to mobilize
$2.6 billion from the public and private sectors. Projects will be implemented in
dozens of countries, with over half of the funds going to IDA countries, including many facing fragile and conflict-affected situations.
As one of the implementing partners under We-Fi, the Bank Group received
$75 million for activities targeting women’s businesses, improving their access
to credit and markets, and boosting entrepreneurial ecosystems. Implemented
jointly by the Bank ($26 million) and IFC ($49 million) in partnership with
public and private partners, projects in 25 countries include e-commerce
platforms in the Middle East and North Africa, fintech in Nigeria and Zambia,
performance-based incentives in Vietnam, and supplier diversity projects in
Bangladesh, Côte d’Ivoire, Mozambique, and Senegal.
The Bank also contributes data and knowledge to boost women’s economic
and social empowerment. A new report, Profiting from Parity: Unlocking the
Potential of Women’s Businesses in Africa, draws attention to challenges facing
Africa’s women entrepreneurs, uses household and firm-level data to pinpoint
barriers to growth and profitability, and identifies solutions. Meanwhile, our
Gender Data Portal helps countries access sex-disaggregated data, especially on
jobs and assets, and regional Gender Innovation Labs generate evidence on what
works to close gender gaps, with more than 100 impact evaluations underway
during fiscal 2019.

	

PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS 	

53

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

of learning: equipping learners of all ages for success, helping teachers at all ­levels
become more effective, leveraging technology for learning, building safe and inclusive learning environments, and strengthening management of schools and systems.

Achieving universal health coverage
Today, half the world’s population lacks access to quality health services, and 100
million people are driven into extreme poverty by health expenses every year.
Achieving universal health coverage (UHC) by 2030, in line with SDG 3 to “ensure
healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages,” is at the core of our engagements with country governments, development partners, and other stakeholders. We prioritize sustainable financing of country health systems to meet their
specific challenges, including ending preventable maternal and child mortality,
ensuring that women and children can access comprehensive health services,
reducing childhood stunting, promoting pandemic preparedness and country
capacity for rapid response to disease outbreaks, and preventing and treating
non-communicable diseases.
The Bank is increasing focus on critical health challenges in fragile and conflictaffected areas. For example, a project in South Sudan, in partnership with the International Committee of the Red Cross and UNICEF, will help internally displaced
populations, particularly in high-risk communities; train and deploy community
health workers for preventive and basic curative services; and train health professionals in areas such as counseling and treatment for victims of sexual and gender-based violence.
We invest in reproductive, maternal, newborn, child, and adolescent health,
especially in high-fertility and fragile contexts, which have seen the slowest progress. Between fiscal 2015 and 2019, our portfolio consisted of 60 projects that
included reproductive and maternal health, totaling $7.7 billion in multisectoral
IBRD and IDA commitments. One example is the Sahel Women’s Economic Empowerment and the Demographic Dividend Project in six countries of the Sahel region
(see spotlight on page 20).
The Global Financing Facility (GFF), an innovative country-driven financing
platform hosted by the World Bank Group, maximizes countries’ human capital
investments, especially for women, children, and adolescents. It catalyzes $7 in
IDA investments for every $1 of GFF grant funding, with promising early results in
countries like Cameroon, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria, and Tanzania.
A successful $1 billion replenishment in November 2018, with support from key
donors including Norway, Canada, Japan, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation,
will enable the GFF to expand from 27 countries to as many as 50.
In 2019, an estimated 149 million children under 5 suffered from stunting, which
compromises brain development, education attainment, and later earnings as adults.
Our investments in nutrition, which help end stunting, are approaching $2 billion
globally. They prioritize long-term approaches in countries like Madagascar and
have catalyzed private sector financing partnerships with The Power of Nutrition in
IDA projects in Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Madagascar, Nigeria, Rwanda, and Tanzania.
The Bank Group is also a founding member of Scaling Up Nutrition, a partnership
with over 60 member countries and nearly 3,000 civil society partners, donors, and
foundations.
In late 2018, we co-signed a Global Action Plan with 11 other global agencies,
aiming to help countries accelerate progress toward SDG 3 by mobilizing more
resources for health, investing them better, and strengthening health system capacity. With the World Health Organization (WHO), the Bank Group also co-convenes
UHC2030, a multi-stakeholder platform focused on strengthening health systems.
In addition, the G-20 Finance Ministers and Leaders’ Summits in Japan in June 2019
focused for the first time on sustainable financing for UHC-based health systems as
a critical component of inclusive economic growth.
54	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

Ensuring preparedness for health emergencies
Strong health systems that reach all people—especially the most vulnerable—with
effective services are the only way to ensure protection from major disease outbreaks for the whole population. Under IDA18, we committed to help at least 25 IDA
countries develop pandemic preparedness plans and strengthen their governance
and institutional arrangements for multisectoral health emergency preparedness,
response, and recovery. To date, 37 IDA countries have already developed, costed,
and prioritized these plans, with work underway in at least 14 more.
To enhance regional preparedness following the devastation caused by Ebola
in West Africa in 2014 and 2015, we expanded IDA financing in 2018 for the third
Regional Disease Surveillance Systems Enhancement Program. This is strengthening
national, regional, and cross-sectoral capacity for integrated disease surveillance
and response in select countries of Sub-Saharan Africa.
In fiscal 2019, in response to the 10th Ebola outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC) announced in August 2018, the World Bank Group
provided $80 million in grants and credits through IDA to finance the response
efforts led by the government with international partners. The Bank has also
provided technical support to strengthen DRC’s health system and invested in
pandemic preparedness in the nine countries bordering the DRC in case the
outbreak crosses borders.
At the global level, we work with the WHO in convening the Global Preparedness Monitoring Board annually to assess and publicize the state of global and
country-level preparedness against pandemic threats.

	

PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS 	

55

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

BUILDING RESILIENCE

Promoting universal social protection in a changing
world of work
Social protection plays a critical role in driving human capital gains, from the early
years through adulthood into old age. It can also directly improve labor and livelihood outcomes. Well-designed and implemented programs enhance human capital and productivity, reduce inequalities, build resilience, and help break cycles of
poverty across generations. However, the Bank’s Atlas of Social Protection Indicators of Resilience and Equity shows that only 45 percent of people around the
world are covered by some form of social protection; in the poorest countries, only
one in five poor people have access to it. We are committed to helping countries
develop national systems to substantially increase coverage by 2030, working with
partners to achieve the results in line with the SDGs.
Our annual lending for social protection and jobs, as of June 30, 2019, reached
$17.2 billion, including $11.1 billion to IDA countries. This supports safety net programs, including cash transfers, public works, and school feeding programs. In
Indonesia, the national conditional cash transfer program has expanded coverage
from 1 percent of the population in 2008 to 10 percent (28 million people) in 2018,
while social protection programs overall reach 90 percent of the poorest quintile.
In Tanzania, the Productive Safety Nets Program has also expanded rapidly—from
0.5 percent of the population in 2013 to 10 percent in 2018.

Adapting to climate change risks
Climate change is an acute threat to global development and efforts to end poverty, particularly affecting the poorest and most vulnerable. Its impacts could push
an additional 100 million people into poverty by 2030 and drive migration, with
families and whole communities forced to seek more viable and less vulnerable
places to live. As reflected in the Action Plan on Climate Change Adaptation and
Resilience, the Bank Group is making adaptation and resilience a key priority, placing it on an equal footing with climate mitigation.
Climate action also offers a major opportunity to ensure sustainable development and boost inclusive growth. Through 2030, a shift to low-carbon, resilient
economies could bring $26 trillion in economic benefits and create over 65 million
jobs. In December 2018, the Bank Group announced major new climate targets
doubling current five-year investments to around $200 billion from 2021 to 2025,
comprising about $100 billion in financing from IBRD and IDA and another $100
billion in combined financing from IFC, MIGA, and private capital mobilized by the
Bank Group. The targets include a doubling of support for adaptation and resilience to address mounting climate impacts on lives and livelihoods, especially in
the poorest countries.
The targets will also help governments mainstream climate action into their
policies, planning, and budgeting. In April 2019, finance ministers from over 25
countries launched a new coalition, supported by the Bank, aimed at driving stronger collective action. Led by the finance ministers of Chile and Finland, the coalition
endorsed six Helsinki Principles that promote national climate action, especially
through fiscal policy and the use of public finance.

Building inclusive and sustainable cities and communities
Our social development programs span all sectors, promoting inclusion of the poor
and vulnerable by empowering people, building cohesive and resilient societies,
and making institutions accessible and accountable to citizens. Supported by our
56	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

Increasing support to fragile and conflict-affected places
Fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV) remains a critical development challenge, threatening
efforts to end extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity. By 2030, forecasts suggest that
around half of the world’s extreme poor will live in fragile and conflict-affected situations,
facing serious risks such as rising inequality, violent extremism, climate change, pandemics,
and food insecurity.
The Bank has doubled resources for FCV-affected countries to more than $14 billion
under IDA18. New financing mechanisms include $2.0 billion to support refugees and host
communities, $2.5 billion to spur private enterprise, and a risk mitigation regime that supports proactive initiatives to help countries prevent violent conflict and mitigate fragility
risks. For the IDA18 Refugee Sub-Window, eligibility was established for 14 countries that
collectively host over 6 million refugees, or more than 72 percent of refugees residing
in IDA and IBRD/IDA blend countries (countries that are eligible for both IDA and IBRD
loans): Bangladesh, Burundi, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo,
Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Mauritania, Niger, Pakistan, Rwanda, and Uganda.
The sub-window seeks to promote the social and economic inclusion of refugees while also
helping host communities. As of the end of fiscal 2019, 19 projects have been approved in
10 countries, totaling $927 million.
The Bank also administers the Global Concessional Financing Facility (GCFF), which provides concessional financing to middle-income countries hosting large numbers of refugees. Launched in 2016 by the Bank, the UN, and the Islamic Development Bank, it has
provided around $500 million in grants to unlock more than $2.5 billion in concessional
financing for Jordan and Lebanon to help address the influx of Syrian refugees, as well as
for Colombia (which became eligible for GCFF support in 2019) to help address the needs
of more than 1.2 million displaced Venezuelans and their host communities.
Given the need for a different approach to development in FCV settings, where extreme
poverty is becoming increasingly concentrated, the Bank Group launched global consultations in April 2019 to inform development of our first formal FCV strategy. It will seek to
address the drivers of FCV in affected countries and their impact on vulnerable populations,
with the goal of contributing to peace and prosperity. Face-to-face and online consultations
have already engaged over 1,700 stakeholders in 88 countries and territories from governments, civil society organizations, international partners, and the private sector to draw on
their experiences and lessons learned. The strategy is expected to be finalized by the end
of 2019.

analytical work, we emphasize citizen engagement across our operations. We have
an active portfolio of projects on community empowerment and community-driven
development, an approach that gives control of planning decisions and investment
resources for local development projects to community groups. Through the Inclusive Community Resilience Initiative, we are also integrating citizen engagement,
social inclusion, and gender into disaster and climate risk management investments.
The Bank Group is also partnering with the private sector, governments, and
civil society to manage fragility risks by engaging early to build clean and efficient
cities and communities that are more resilient to climate change and natural hazards. This includes confronting barriers that prevent marginalized groups from fully
participating in political, economic, and social life. The Bank has invested close to
an average of $6 billion each year in urban development and resilience projects
during fiscal 2017–19, excluding investments in urban transport and water, while
our annual disaster risk management financing across the entire portfolio increased
from $3.7 billion in fiscal 2012 to $4.5 billion in fiscal 2019.
Our City Resilience Program works to help cities to strengthen resilience and
access a broad range of ﬁnancing options. Since June 2017, it has worked with
57 cities in 39 countries for a combined $2.3 billion ($1.3 billion from IDA and
$975 million from IBRD). So far, 52 Rapid Capital Assessments have been completed

	

PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS 	

57

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

Supporting resilience through financial instruments
The Bank Group promotes green growth in several ways: strengthening client countries’
capacity to assess the macroeconomic and fiscal impacts of mitigation and adaptation policies; providing green finance; improving capacity for environmental fiscal reforms; and
integrating climate issues into medium-term fiscal frameworks, development policy, and
other operations. We are also supporting finance ministries through the Climate Action Peer
Exchange, where we work with central banks and supervisors to share best practices and
mobilize finance for the transition toward a sustainable economy. The Global Risk Financing
Facility is a $145 million multidonor trust fund that responds to the call from developing
countries to scale up technical and financial assistance to help manage the financial impact
of exogenous shocks.
The Bank Group works with client countries to increase resilience to climate risks and
disaster shocks through sustainable and cost-effective financial protection and instruments,
such as catastrophe bonds and insurance solutions.
We provide risk insurance for countries. By intermediating between client countries and
capital markets and through direct Bank bond and over-the-counter derivative transactions,
we help countries build resilience to risks from natural disasters and other destabilizing
events. Risk transfer coverage provides protection to governments without increasing public debt; it complements other sources of funding, including emergency funds, budget
reserves, credit lines, and international aid.
The Development Policy Loan with a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (Cat DDO)
is a contingent financing line that provides liquidity to help countries address shocks related
to natural disasters or health-related events. It serves as immediate financing while funds
from other sources, such as bilateral aid or reconstruction loans, are being mobilized. Cat
DDOs are accompanied by programs to strengthen disaster mitigation and response, build
country capacity, and reduce the impact of disasters before they strike. In 2018, the Bank
also pioneered the issuance of the first regional catastrophe bond. Creating a shared risk
instrument, the $1.4 billion bond provided coverage for earthquakes to the four countries
of the Pacific Alliance: Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru.
Our Global Index Insurance Facility provides catastrophe risk transfer solutions and agriculture insurance to smallholder farmers, microentrepreneurs, and microfinance institutions
in Sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean.
We also help countries design green bonds and Shariah-compliant green sukuk to
mobilize sustainable financing. In conflict scenarios, the Bank Group helps ensure that
solutions are available to those negatively affected, such as through the GCFF.

to help cities build their capacity for attracting private capital to infrastructure
projects. The program has also delivered 13 City Resilience Scans, which lay out
cities’ risk profiles and built environments.
Ensuring secure rights to land is important to sustainable growth, as this allows
people to invest in and better manage their resources, engage with the private
sector, and improve their livelihoods. Achieving the SDG 5 target of “all men and
women having equal rights to ownership and control over land by 2030” will
require a systematic effort and more investment by the global community to help
poor households secure property rights. The Bank is a founding member of “Stand
for Her Land,” a multi-stakeholder effort that aims to close the gap between law and
practice on women’s land rights, in collaboration with global and regional partners
and local communities.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/topics.

58	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

Developing Financial Tools for
Global Impact
Through global capital markets, IBRD has been mobilizing finance for our client
countries for over 70 years, raising nearly $900 billion since its first bond in 1947.
During fiscal 2019, IBRD leveraged $16 billion in paid-in capital from its shareholders to fund around $120 billion in projects and programs that help countries
address development priorities around the world. We leverage IBRD’s triple-A rating
to cost effectively raise $50–60 billion annually to support the Bank’s sustainable
development mandate, develop financial tools and instruments that advance global
development priorities, and help clients manage risk and build resilience. In fiscal
2018, IDA entered the capital markets for the first time with an inaugural $1.5 billion
benchmark bond. Total orders for the IDA bond reached $4.6 billion from around
the world. This has enabled IDA to significantly scale up its support toward the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), while offering investors an efficient way to
contribute to global development.

Promoting capital market instruments for
global development
The Bank’s capital market instruments give the private sector the opportunity to
engage in global development priorities. In fiscal 2019, these included an Indonesian rupiah–denominated five-year bond to promote women’s empowerment in
rural areas and a Swedish krona (SKr) 2.5 billion five-year bond to raise awareness
for sustainable cities and communities. In December 2018, the Bank priced new
SDG index-linked bonds for retail investors in Hong Kong SAR, China, and Singapore, with returns linked to an equity index that tracks the performance of companies advancing the goals, including on climate, gender, and health. We are also
seeking to harness emerging technologies for development. In August 2018, for
example, we issued the world’s first global blockchain bond, bond-i, in partnership
with the Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Microsoft.
We also issue green bonds, which tap capital markets to support climate-related
projects and shift investor focus to the environmental, social, and governance commitments of issuers. We issued the world’s first labeled green bond in 2008, and our
green bonds have raised the equivalent of $13 billion through more than 150 transactions in 20 currencies. In November 2018, we marked the 10-year anniversary
of the first green bond with three major benchmark issuances in euros, Australian
dollars, and U.S. dollars, raising $1.3 billion equivalent.
The Bank also helps countries build green bond markets. This work helps clients
demonstrate leadership on sustainability and climate action, while offering investors an opportunity to support development solutions that address climate change.
In 2009, California became the sole investor in our first U.S. dollar–denominated
green bond. We celebrated the long-standing partnership with a new issuance in
October 2018, for a total of $1.5 billion over 10 years. In September 2018, the Bank
also issued the first green bond guide for issuers—the Green Bond Proceeds Management and Reporting Guide—providing guidance to public sector issuers and
furthering global thought leadership.
In August 2018, we launched an initiative to highlight the critical role of water
and ocean resources. A range of institutional and retail investors globally have
	

DEVELOPING FINANCIAL TOOLS FOR GLOBAL IMPACT 	

59

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

supported the effort by buying World Bank Sustainable Development Bonds, totaling 23 bonds in 10 currencies to date. In November 2018, IBRD raised $660 million
in bonds to raise awareness for the SDGs for clean water and sanitation (SDG 6) and
life below water (SDG 14). In May 2019, we issued a 13-year SKr 500 million sustainable development bond that highlights the urgency of addressing water and ocean
pollution, particularly plastic waste in oceans.
We also helped the Seychelles develop the world’s first sovereign blue bond to
support sustainable marine and fisheries projects; this launched in October 2018.
Proceeds will support expansion of marine protected areas, better governance of
key fisheries, and development of the country’s blue economy. As one of the world’s
biodiversity hotspots, the Seychelles is balancing its needs to develop economically
and protect its natural environment.
We are furthering the transition to sustainable capital markets by deepening our
partnership with Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund. As part of this, the
Bank’s Treasury convened the first-ever roundtable on environmental, social, and
governance issues to promote open and productive dialogue between institutional
investors and sovereign bond issuers.

Helping clients manage public debt
Effective, strategic, and efficient public debt management is important for financial
stability and sustainable fiscal policy. It requires sound practices, including to ensure
that public debt does not undermine development objectives.
In fiscal 2019, the Bank worked with over 50 sovereign and subnational debt
management offices to help governments build institutional capacity for public
debt management. These advisory services reached more than 1,000 practitioners
through webinars, workshops and forums, online communication and virtual peer
groups, and in-person meetings to build and manage long-term relationships
among counterparts.
We are increasingly adapting our services and offerings as developing countries’
debt portfolios become more complex. We provide technical assistance to countries designing and implementing debt management strategies, assessing debt sustainability, and developing their local currency markets (see also “Promoting debt
transparency,” on page 44).
To meet countries’ growing needs, this year the World Bank Treasury developed
the first-ever workshop on sovereign balance sheet risk management, published
working papers on sovereign assets and liabilities, and designed and deployed
the first analytical tool specifically for countries to manage cash and cashflow
projections.
The Reserves Advisory and Management Program is our rapidly growing platform for delivering demand-driven capacity building and asset management services to official sector asset managers in developing countries and international
institutions. It helps central banks, pension funds, and sovereign wealth funds build
human capital, strengthen governance and operations, and deliver returns on financial resources consistent with their mandates and risk parameters. Demand for the
program continues to grow; it now serves 70 institutions, including many in lowincome countries and fragile and conflict-affected situations.
For more information, visit treasury.worldbank.org.

60	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

Putting Knowledge to Work in
Promoting Development
Knowledge is central to the World Bank’s ability to influence the global development
agenda. Combining global and country knowledge, our research programs generate wide-ranging insights for solving development challenges in client countries.
We share our research through reports and publications, in-depth analytic services, and freely available development data. In fiscal 2019, the Bank published
reports on pressing topics, including:
• 
World Development Report 2019: The Changing
Nature of Work. This flagship report investigates how
the nature of work is changing due to advances in technology. The report points out that technological progress is constantly reshaping work and the demand for
skills. It suggests that governments need to prioritize
investments in human capital to ensure that workers can
build the right skills. In addition, governments need to
enhance social protection and extend it to all people in
society, regardless of the terms on which they work.
• 
Women, Business and the Law 2019: A Decade of
Reform. This report examines laws and regulations
affecting women’s prospects as entrepreneurs and
employees across 187 economies. It seeks to inform policy discussions on how to remove legal restrictions on
women and to promote research on ways of improving
women’s economic inclusion. The 2019 edition introduces a new index measuring legal rights for women
at milestones throughout their working lives. The data
cover a 10-year period to shed light on the current situation, as well as how laws affecting women’s equality of
opportunity have evolved over time.
• 
Doing Business 2019: Training for Reform. Using
quantitative indicators, Doing Business compares business regulation and the protection of property rights
across 190 economies and over time. Each year, the
report identifies 10 economies that made the most
notable improvements over the previous year in the
areas measured. The 2019 edition gives this distinction
to Afghanistan, Djibouti, China, Azerbaijan, India, Togo,
Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire, Turkey, and Rwanda. It also finds
that a third of all business regulation reforms recorded
for the year were in Sub-Saharan Africa.

	

PUT TING KNOWLEDGE TO WORK IN PROMOTING DEVELOPMENT 	

61

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

• Global Economic Prospects. This semiannual flagship
report, published in January and June, examines global
economic developments, prospects, and policies, with a
focus on emerging market and developing economies.
The June 2019 edition, Heightened Tensions, Subdued
Investment, found that global growth has continued to
soften in 2019. A modest recovery in developing economies continued to be constrained by subdued investment, which was dampening prospects and impeding
progress toward achieving critical development goals.
Downside risks to the outlook remained elevated, as
policymakers continued to face major challenges to boosting resilience and fostering long-term growth. This edition also included analysis on the benefits and
risks of government borrowing, recent investment weakness in developing economies, the pass-through of currency depreciations to inflation, and the evolution
of growth in low-income countries.
• Poverty and Shared Prosperity: Piecing Together the
Poverty Puzzle. This report finds that the percentage
of people living in extreme poverty fell to a record low
of 10 percent in 2015, reflecting  continued but slowing progress. In 70 of the 91 countries for which shared
prosperity data were available, incomes of the bottom
40 percent improved between 2010 and 2015; in  54
percent of the 91 countries, their income grew faster
than the average. The report also  broadens the ways
we define poverty, introducing a new societal poverty
measure that reflects differences across countries, as
well as a multidimensional poverty measure that encompasses access to education and basic infrastructure. The report also investigates differences in poverty
within households. 
• Pathways for Peace: Inclusive Approaches to Prevent­
ing Violent Conflict. This study, conducted jointly
with the UN, highlights the urgency of preventing and
addressing the core drivers of fragility. It aims to improve
how development efforts interact with security, diplomacy, peacebuilding, and other areas to prevent conflicts from becoming violent. It stresses the importance
of proactively addressing grievances related to exclusion—from access to power, natural resources, security,
and justice, for example—that are at the root of many
violent conflicts.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/publications.

Addressing development challenges through technical
advice and analysis
Advisory Services and Analytics (ASA) are a vital part of how the Bank contributes
to development. Member countries use our technical advice and analysis to sustain
development over the long term by designing or implementing better policies and
development strategies and by strengthening their institutions. At the country level,
these activities underpin partnership frameworks, government programs, and projects supported by Bank lending and guarantees. At the global and regional level,
they contribute to public goods and inform important policy debates.
62	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

In fiscal 2019, we produced 1,625 ASA products in over 140 countries. The outputs ranged from reports on key economic and social issues to knowledge-sharing
workshops, training, policy notes, and implementation action plans. Reimbursable
Advisory Services (RAS) are customized ASA products requested and paid for by
country clients. In fiscal 2019, the Bank delivered 120 RAS products in 35 countries;
through RAS, we serve all our member states, including nonborrowing countries.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/asa.

Providing data and tools to strengthen development
knowledge
The Bank is a leader in generating and disseminating development data. By sharing
data and analytic tools, we provide a platform for high-quality, policy-oriented analytic work in developing countries, strengthening the foundation for development
knowledge and informed policymaking.
As a knowledge institution, the Bank is proud to share its knowledge freely and
openly. Statistics and data are a key part of this knowledge. The following sources
are easily accessible through the Bank’s Open Data website for all users:
International Comparison Program. This worldwide statistical initiative is led by
the Bank under the auspices of the UN Statistical Commission. Its main objective
is to provide comparable price and volume measures of GDP and its expenditure
aggregates among countries within and across regions. Through a partnership with
international, regional, subregional, and national agencies, the program collects and
compares price data and GDP expenditures to estimate and publish purchasing
power parities of the world’s economies.
World Development Indicators. This database is a compilation of internationally
comparable statistics on global development and the fight against poverty. It supports our mission of ensuring that all client countries have data as evidence for
their decision making. The database contains 1,600 time-series indicators for 217
economies and more than 40 country groups, with some indicators’ data going
back more than 50 years.
PovcalNet. An online analysis tool for global poverty monitoring, PovcalNet allows
users to replicate the Bank’s official poverty estimates through calculations from its
database. PovcalNet also allows users to calculate poverty measures under different assumptions and to assemble the estimates for different groups of economies
or sets of individual economies. In March 2019, we released revised estimates of
global poverty from 1981 to 2015. The new estimates combine PPP exchange rates
for household consumption from the 2011 International Comparison Program, with
data from more than 1,500 household surveys across 164 economies.
For more information, visit data.worldbank.org.

	

PUT TING KNOWLEDGE TO WORK IN PROMOTING DEVELOPMENT 	

63

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Strengthening Our Impact through
Partnerships
The World Bank Group works with a vast array of partners, both traditional and
nontraditional, formal and informal, from around the world to help meet our goals
of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity.

Partnering on today’s most pressing challenges
Addressing global challenges requires collective action. Below are major examples
of our partnerships in fiscal 2019.
Fragility. Fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV) threaten efforts to end extreme
poverty, with risks affecting both low- and middle-income countries. We are
emphasizing prevention and early action, remaining engaged during active conflict, and mitigating the spillover impacts of FCV on the most vulnerable groups.
We are scaling up collaboration with humanitarian, development, peacebuilding, and security actors through country-level cooperation with the UN in over 40
crisis-affected situations. In addition, with G-5 countries and the Sahel Alliance, we
are working to deliver $6.7 billion in development support to insecure areas across
the Sahel region.
Human capital. We are working with a wide range of global leaders to build
support for the Human Capital Project. At the Annual and Spring Meetings, the Bank
hosted discussions with representatives across philanthropy, civil society, the private
sector, and bilateral and multilateral institutions, along with Bank Group experts, to
promote better investments in people.
Gender. We continue to deepen engagements to address gender inequality through various initiatives. For instance, with the governments of Canada and
Norway, client countries, and IFC, we forged the Mashreq Gender Facility, which
supports governments in addressing constraints to women’s labor force participation in the Mashreq region of the Middle East and North Africa.
In addition, the Umbrella Facility for Gender Equality, a multidonor trust fund
with 14 governments and international foundations, continued to catalyze knowledge, innovative project design, and impact evaluation evidence on the most effective approaches to closing gender gaps.
Climate change. We work with a wide range of partners to tackle climate challenges. The Global Commission on Adaptation seeks to accelerate action on climate
change adaptation, elevate the political visibility of adaptation, and highlight tangible solutions. It aims to demonstrate that adaptation is a cornerstone of better
development and helps improve lives, reduce poverty, protect the environment,
and enhance resilience around the world. Together with Kristalina Georgieva, the
Commission is jointly chaired by Ban Ki-moon, the eighth Secretary-General of the
UN, and Bill Gates, co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. It is convened
by 19 countries, guided by 33 commissioners, and supported by a global network
of research partners and advisors, including the World Bank, who provide scientific,
economic, and policy analysis.

64	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Deepening engagement with essential partners
The Bank Group emphasizes engagement with other multilateral institutions,
philanthropy and the private sector, civil society, parliamentarians, faith-based
organizations, and local communities.
Multilateral engagement. At the request of participating governments, we contribute expertise and policy recommendations for inclusive and sustainable growth
and poverty reduction. At the end of Argentina’s G-20 Presidency in November
2018, we co-hosted an Investor Forum with the Argentine government to increase
long-term sustainable financing in client countries. The Bank also supported the
priorities of Japan’s G-20 Presidency, including quality infrastructure, resilience,
debt sustainability and transparency, stronger health financing, and development
of country platforms. Within the G-7, we are supporting France’s priorities on gender equality, human capital, biodiversity, trade, domestic resource mobilization, and
digital transformation and inclusion. 
Civil society. The Bank Group interacts with civil society organizations (CSOs)
worldwide through partnerships and outreach, advocacy and campaigns, policy
dialogue and consultations, operational collaboration, and information sharing, as
well as grant mechanisms such as the Global Partnership for Social Accountability.
Our CSO partners help extend our reach and improve our development impact,
accountability, and transparency. The Civil Society Policy Forum, held during our
Spring and Annual Meetings, enables CSOs to exchange views with the Bank
Group, IMF staff, and other stakeholders on a range of topics. The 2019 Spring
Meetings in Washington had a record attendance of over 1,000 delegates from
109 countries, with 46 sessions mostly organized and led by CSOs.
Faith-based organizations (FBOs). Our Global Faith Initiative helps faith
actors to engage with the Bank Group on issues across regions and sectors, with a
focus on human capital outcomes, gender, fragility, and climate change. This year,

	

STRENGTHENING OUR IMPACT THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS 	

65

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

engagement centered on strengthening dialogue and outreach to advance the
Bank Group’s goals, contributing to a more rigorous evidence base on the role and
impact of FBOs in development, and fostering operational collaboration between
the Bank and FBOs to invest more in people.
Philanthropy and the private sector. The 2030 SDGs have increased recognition that nontraditional actors can play a bigger role in mobilizing financing and
harnessing innovation and expertise to achieve the goals. We have redoubled our
focus on partnering with the private sector, including foundations, new philanthropists, impact investors, and social entrepreneurs.
For example, this year our strategic dialogue with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation focused on taking innovations to scale and resulted in collaborations on
urban sanitation, agriculture and data, and use of technology to support smallholder farmers.
Parliamentarians. Our primary channel for engagement with legislators is the
Parliamentary Network—an independent platform for more than 1,000 influential
parliamentarians to deliberate and advocate for accountability and political support
for development.
The 2019 Spring Meetings served as a platform for the fifth annual Global Parliamentary Conference, the network’s flagship event, gathering more than 100 MPs
from 48 countries to engage with Bank Group experts and senior management on
today’s most pressing issues. During the same period, the inaugural meeting of the
Global Young Member of Parliament Initiative brought together legislators aged
45 and younger from 26 countries to share best practices and policy solutions to
challenges that disproportionately affect younger generations.
Also this year, parliamentarians from 10 countries and CSO representatives
from 13 organizations visited IDA projects in Senegal and The Gambia to see their
impact on the ground.
Community Connections. The Bank Group’s Community Connections program helps staff live our values in our communities through corporate philanthropy,
volunteerism, in-kind donations, and an internship program for local high school
students. These efforts leverage our motivated, caring workforce for betterment of
the Washington metropolitan area and other communities around the world where
we work. This year, we contributed over $9 million to nongovernmental organizations in our communities, with over $4 million of it donated by staff. The institutional focus on human capital and gender was evident as our philanthropy helped
fund the building of a workforce development facility and early childhood education centers in the Washington area.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/en/about/partners.

66	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

Improving Our Operations for
Development Impact
To better serve our clients and partners, we continuously work to improve our operations, policies, and processes to become a more effective and efficient institution
and maximize our development impact.

The World Bank’s Environmental and Social Framework
The World Bank’s new Environmental and Social Framework (ESF) became effective on October 1, 2018. It is replacing our Safeguard Policies for investment project finance operations, with the two systems operating in parallel for five to seven
years as projects under the older policies come to closure. The new framework
offers broader, more systematic coverage of environmental and social risks, including issues such as labor, climate change, and occupational health and safety. It also
makes important advances in stakeholder engagement, transparency, accountability, non-discrimination, and public participation.
To prepare for the launch, the Bank staff held workshops in 105 countries for
government officials, project implementation staff, and other key stakeholders—
including civil society, the private sector, universities and training centers, in-country
bilateral agencies, and international financing institutions. Similar trainings have
been held with development partners in Europe and Asia, reaching over 40 separate agencies. A strategy has been developed to strengthen borrowers’ frameworks
and capacity to manage environmental and social risks. More than 2,500 Bank staff
have also been trained, with our environmental and social specialists proceeding
through a professional accreditation program to ensure knowledge capture and
identify skills gaps. An Environmental and Social Management System launched in
October 2018 to track and manage environmental and social risks on Bank-financed
projects. Guidance notes for borrowers on each of the 10 Environmental and Social
Standards are available online in all UN languages. Good practice notes, templates,
and other resources have also been issued on topics such as third-party monitoring,
non-discrimination and disability, gender-based violence (GBV), and use of security
personnel. Stakeholder outreach has included events at the Spring Meetings and
Annual Meetings, presentations to professional associations, and leadership roles in
working groups of international financing institutions.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/esf.

Addressing gender-based violence
The Bank is committed to reducing GBV through investment, research and learning,
and collaboration with stakeholders around the world.  Addressing GBV in operations is a key priority, with notable commitments articulated under both IDA17
and IDA18, as well as within the Bank Group’s Gender Strategy. We currently support over $300 million in operations aimed at addressing GBV, both through standalone projects and through the integration of GBV components in areas such as
transport, education, social protection, and forced displacement.  Through the
“Development Marketplace: Innovations to Address GBV,” now in its fourth year,

	

IMPROVING OUR OPERATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT IMPACT 	

67

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

the Bank partnered with the Sexual Violence Research Initiative and awarded over
$4 million to more than 40 research projects in 28 low- and middle-income countries to advance understanding of effective strategies to prevent and respond to
GBV. In response to recommendations from the GBV Task Force, we developed a
risk assessment tool to ensure that Bank-financed operations avoid increasing the
risk of sexual exploitation and abuse. The tool is accompanied by a rigorous methodology to assess contextual and project-related risks and is meant to be used as
projects containing civil works are developed. We also developed a good practice
note to assist staff in addressing identified risks of sexual exploitation, abuse, and
harassment that can emerge in investment projects with major civil works contracts.
The note was launched in the context of the ESF and is being adapted for key sectors in human development.  
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/en/topic/socialdevelopment
/brief/violence-against-women-and-girls.

The World Bank Procurement Framework
The Bank’s Procurement Framework, in effect since 2016, plays a strategic role
in helping countries achieve better development outcomes in implementing our
investment project finance operations. It allows countries to develop procurement
strategies tailored to their specific needs, unique characteristics, diverse markets,
and project development objectives. The framework is used for all new projects,
with specific procurement strategies set for each project. These strategy documents
assess a project’s operating context, implementation capacity, the potential impact
on procurement, and market conditions to inform procurement arrangements. To
date, 437 projects valued at $43.0 billion are applying the framework.
Two features of the framework—Alternative Procurement Arrangements (APA)
and Hands-On Expanded Implementation Support (HEIS)—aim to make projects
easier and more efficient to implement, usually in low-capacity or fragile situations.
APA allow arrangements to be made with other organizations such as UN agencies
and the International Committee of the Red Cross to lead procurement activities
and implementation, improving efficiency on the ground. HEIS allows Bank staff to
support clients in applying the Bank’s procurement rules to expedite project implementation; it has been used in projects in Afghanistan, Iraq, Kosovo, Myanmar, and
Papua New Guinea.
To ensure smooth implementation, the framework includes guidance notes for
operational teams, borrowers, and the private sector. For example, the Bank’s Standard Bidding Documents for Works were updated following implementation of the
ESF to reflect the new standards. We have also conducted global outreach to disseminate the framework’s new features, and participating companies confirm that
it has helped to create a stronger enabling environment for businesses.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/procurement.

Improving the design and use of trust funds for
greater impact
Trust funds complement IDA and IBRD financing and provide vital support to the
Bank’s capacity to deliver on our top priorities. There are more than 500 trust funds,
accounting for about 10 percent of the Bank’s disbursements to clients. They are
critical to the knowledge agenda, financing about two-thirds of all our advisory
services and analytics activities.
One of the key challenges identified by the ongoing trust fund reform process is
the long tail of smaller, highly customized trust funds, which account for 70 percent
of trust funds but only 7 percent of the total value of this portfolio. Their varied
68	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

planning and allocation cycles make alignment with the Bank’s strategy and planning
cycle and broader priorities more difficult. These funds also have high transaction
costs for their establishment, fundraising, governance, and reporting requirements.
To build stronger links between funding and strategic priorities as well as reduce
fragmentation, the Bank is organizing the trust fund portfolio around fewer, larger
programs with a strong focus on results, known as Umbrella 2.0. This reform aims
to strengthen alignment and efficiency through greater scale, reduce transaction
costs through coordinated governance and reporting, and improve dialogue with
partners around shared priorities. The pilot phase was rolled out in fiscal 2019,
with lessons from it being used to prepare the final design and roll out the reform
Bank-wide in 2020. Measures to simplify trust funds that fall outside the scope of
Umbrella 2.0, such as co-financing or new innovations that require “proof of concept” before being scaled up, are also being developed.
The Bank is also currently preparing a management framework that seeks to
strengthen selectivity and risk management for both new and established financial intermediary funds. These provide the global development community with
independently governed multilateral platforms that support multiple implementing
agencies, typically in the areas of global public goods. The Bank plays a limited
trustee role in these funds; we may host the secretariat and act as one of the implementing entities.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/dfi.

Grievance Redress Service
The Grievance Redress Service (GRS) is an avenue for people and communities
to submit complaints directly to the World Bank if they believe a Bank-funded
project has or is likely to adversely affect them.
The GRS ensures that complaints received at the corporate level are promptly
and proactively addressed by fostering dialogue and problem solving as well as
applying relevant dispute resolution tools. Building on its growing experience, the
GRS is being strengthened to enhance its efficiency and effectiveness by distinguishing the types of redress services it provides and updating its systems and
operating procedures.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/grs.

	

IMPROVING OUR OPERATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT IMPACT 	

69

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

Our Values and Our People

The World Bank’s core tenets of our approach to our work are respect for our people, our clients, our partners, and our planet. In fiscal 2019, the Bank remained
committed to environmental sustainability in its internal operations and worked
to safeguard staff voices. Our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index, updated
every fiscal year, presents further details on the sustainability considerations of our
operations and corporate practices. The Index can be accessed online as part of the
World Bank Annual Report appendixes: www.worldbank.org/annualreport.

Our Values
Respect, impact, integrity, teamwork, and innovation were defined as our Core
Values in fiscal 2018. A new Code of Ethics and Conduct is being prepared to
integrate these values into the Bank Group’s culture and work. The new code will
help staff better understand the attitudes and behaviors expected of them, while
the Staff Rules will define the situations that could lead to misconduct.

Our People
The Bank’s nearly 12,300 full-time staff work for solutions to the world’s most pressing development challenges. Our People Strategy aims to build a workforce with
the right skills, in the right place, and at the right time. It seeks to offer the best
value to clients and strengthen the employment value proposition to make our
organization the best place to work in development.
Working in challenging environments. The Bank is committed to working
where its services are most needed. We have been increasing our footprint in
fragile, conflict, and violence–affected (FCV) countries to be closer to our clients.
Guided by IDA18 and decentralization efforts, the Bank is well on track with our
commitment to increase our presence in FCV countries by 150 staff by the end of
fiscal 2020. The Bank offers enhanced incentives, as well as targeted programs for
onboarding, leadership development, learning, and career development.
Ensuring staff health and safety. The Bank provides an array of programs and
services to promote and protect the health and security of staff. The Bank Group’s
Occupational Health and Safety Management System identifies and systematically
controls health and safety hazards in our workplaces, with an approach guided
by international health and safety standards. Corporate Security has continued to
expand the Bank Group’s security capabilities in areas such as staff training, travel
security, armored vehicles and equipment, facilities, and staff tools, such as the new
Travel Advisory mobile application. As part of our commitment to expanding operations in FCV countries, Corporate Security is focusing on higher-threat locations and
working closely with operational colleagues to support staff in these environments.
Increasing diversity and inclusion. In fiscal 2019, we continued to focus on
inclusion, with the introduction of a new gender indicator that tracks progress
toward parity at all grade levels. We also launched a new learning program that
leverages virtual reality to address unconscious bias and raise awareness on sexual
orientation and gender identity. As part of the Bank Group’s commitment to

70	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

increase the number and enhance the experience of staff with disabilities, the
Office of Diversity and Inclusion partnered with the Disabilities Advocacy and
Resource Employee Group to launch the first-ever survey that will inform institutional efforts to create a more disability-conscious workplace.
Implementing the Knowledge Management Action Plan. This year, we initiated several projects to enhance operational efficiencies and effectiveness in our
knowledge management. These efforts (i) enable teams to better address their
knowledge gaps by identifying in-house expertise, accessing the most relevant
project work, and better managing internal content at unit levels; (ii) ensure progressive professionalization and learning among knowledge management staff
across the Bank by introducing new technical competencies, developing a training
curriculum, and providing them with tools for their onward use; and (iii) address
wider knowledge culture initiatives by developing Bank-wide knowledge-sharing
efforts and reinvigorating the broader knowledge management agenda through
outreach and engagement.
Engaging in continuous learning. A new staff learning menu, which aligns
with the Bank’s corporate priorities, was launched to help staff find trainings easily
and engage in continuous learning. New learning paths linked to defined job competencies for global practices and vice-presidential units were launched to support more targeted career development. Additionally, a results-based evaluation
and learning analytics system is in place to assess staff learning and provide data,
benchmarks, and evidence for timely decision making and course correction.
Safe place for staff to voice their concerns and conflicts. As of June 30, 2019,
EBC’s advisory services received 1,053 advisory requests from staff—two-thirds of
which were answered the same day and 90 percent within 48 hours. Staff have
multiple channels through Internal Justice Services to seek advice, guidance, and
resources to resolve conflicts, including ombuds, Respectful Workplace Advisors,
mediation, peer review services, and performance management review. These services form a key element in facilitating a respectful, values-driven workplace culture.
Through March 31, 2019, 1,142 staff had approached these services for advice.
Action plan for preventing and addressing sexual harassment. The Bank
Group is proactively creating a culture that systematically addresses sexual harassment and misconduct. In fiscal 2019, we launched an action plan to shift the focus
from processes to people. It includes more than 50 specific initiatives in line with
best practices and incorporates recommendations from three independent external

TABLE 14  WORLD BANK (IBRD/IDA) STAFF DATA, FISCAL 2017–19
INDICATOR

Total full-time staff

FY17

FY18

FY19

Related Indicators

GRI 401; SDG 8

11,897

12,216

12,283

Non-US based (%)

42.0

42.6

43.2

Short-term consultants/temporaries (FTEs)

4,948

4,810

5,097

80

—

79

0.91

0.92

0.93

39.0

41.5

44.1%

Employee engagement (%)
Diversity index
Female managers (%)
Managers from developing countries (%)

43.3

43.1

42.3%

Female technical staff (grade GF+, %)

44.2

44.5

45.3%

Sub-Saharan/Caribbean technical staff
  (grade GF+, %)

12.9

13.3

13.6%

Average days of training per staff,
  at headquarters

4.7

5.1

5.1

Average days of training per staff,
  in country offices

4.6

4.4

4.7

GRI 405; SDG 8

GRI 404; SDG 8

Note: – = not available; FTE = full-time equivalent (staff); GF+ = salary grade GF or higher, that is, professional;
GRI = Global Reporting Initiative. There was no Engagement Survey in fiscal 2018.

	

OUR VALUES AND OUR PEOPLE 	

71

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

experts. Key features include creating a new anti-harassment coordinator position,
empowering managers to address inappropriate behaviors, providing new confidential and people-centered avenues for reporting, streamlining investigations, and
increasing transparency by publishing the anonymized outcomes of cases substantiated by EBC.
Representing staff voice. Staff rights and interests are represented by the
Staff Association, which has about 11,800 staff and consultants as members across
the Bank Group. In fiscal 2019, the association continued dialogue with human
resources and senior management, expressing staff concerns about organizational
changes, challenges posed by the amended compensation methodology, health
coverage policies, and occupational health matters, as well as assisting staff. Through
increased participation in our working groups, as well as the introduction of a new
onboarding session for all staff on their general rights, the association continued to
advocate for Bank Group employees.
Strengthening environmental commitment. The Bank seeks to systematically
address the environmental impacts from our operations, using a set of Sustainability Principles as our guide. An executive-level committee overseeing the Bank
Group’s corporate responsibility efforts has renewed efforts on key impact areas
of the institution’s environmental footprint, including energy, water, greenhouse
gas emissions, solid waste, and supply chain. For more information, see the 2019
Sustainability Review.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility.

72	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Guiding the Institution
All the powers of the World Bank are vested in the Board of Governors, the Bank’s
senior decision-making body, according to the Articles of Agreement for IBRD and
IDA. Each member of the Bank is represented by one governor and one alternate.
The Board of Governors delegates most powers to 25 resident executive directors who comprise the Board of Directors for IBRD and IDA. The Executive Directors
represent the World Bank’s 189 member countries and are responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank. The Executive Directors select a President, who serves as Chair of the Board. The current Board term is from November
2018 to October 2020.
The Executive Directors guide the general operations and strategic direction
of the Bank and represent member countries’ viewpoints on the Bank’s role. They
consider and decide on proposals made by the President for IBRD and IDA loans,
credits, grants, and guarantees; new policies; the administrative budget; and other
operational and financial matters. They also discuss Country Partnership Frameworks—the central tool by which management and the Board review and guide
the Bank Group’s engagement with client countries and support for development
programs. The Executive Directors are also responsible for presenting to the Board
of Governors an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and the Bank’s Annual
Report on fiscal year results. The Dean, the longest serving full-time Executive Director, plays a role within the Board related to the contract of the President, selection of
members to the Board Ethics Committee, and coordination of the Board’s external
engagements, among others.
The Board has five standing committees and one ad hoc committee. Executive Directors serve on one or more of these committees, which help the Board to
discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies
and practices. The Executive Directors’ Steering Committee, on which all Executive
Directors serve, meets bimonthly to discuss the Board’s strategic work program.
The Board, through its committees, regularly engages on the effectiveness of
the activities of the Bank Group with management and with the independent
Inspection Panel and the Independent Evaluation Group, both of which report
directly to the Board.
FIGURE 7  COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Steering Committee for the World Bank’s Board
Audit Committee
Oversees the Bank’s
finances, accounting, risk
management, internal
controls, and institutional
integrity.

Committee on Governance
and Executive Directors’
Administrative Matters
Guides the governance of the Bank,
the Board’s own effectiveness, and
the administrative policy applicable
to Executive Directors’ offices.

	

Budget Committee
Assists the Board in
approving the Bank’s
budgets.

Committee on Development
Effectiveness
Assesses the Bank’s development
effectiveness, guides its strategic
direction, and monitors the
quality and results of
its operations.

Human Resources
Committee
Oversees responsibility
on the Bank’s human
resources strategy, policies,
and practices, and their
alignment with its
business needs.

Ethics Committee
Established in 2003 to consider,
on an ad hoc basis, matters
relating to the interpretation
or application of the Code
of Conduct for Board Officials

GUIDING THE INSTITUTION 	

73

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

Ensuring Accountability and
Transparency in Our Operations
We hold ourselves accountable to our clients, shareholders, and the broader public
through institutional mechanisms that monitor operational performance, manage
institutional risks, address concerns and grievances, and ensure transparency in our
work. These include units both within and independent of the Bank that provide
guidance and recommendations to ensure maximum development effectiveness
and adherence to the highest standards of accountability.

Independent Evaluation Group
The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) aims to strengthen the Bank Group’s
development effectiveness through evaluations that assess results and performance
and provide recommendations for improvements. IEG’s evaluations contribute to
accountability and learning, helping inform the Bank Group’s directions, policies
and procedures, and country partnership frameworks.
According to IEG’s 2018 Results and Performance of the World Bank Group,
outcome ratings for Bank lending continue to improve. The share of closed projects
rated moderately satisfactory or above rose from 69 percent during fiscal 2012–14 to
76 percent during fiscal 2015–17. Outcome ratings now exceed the levels for projects
closed in fiscal 2006–08, before the financial crisis, by both number and volume.
In fiscal 2019, IEG completed major evaluations on creating markets, fostering
regional integration, and facilitating knowledge flow and collaboration, among
other topics. Each evaluation assessed the Bank Group’s performance and identified
lessons for improving operations regarding a theme, sector, or corporate process.
For more information and IEG’s annual report, visit ieg.worldbankgroup.org.

Inspection Panel
The Inspection Panel was established by the Bank’s Board of Directors as the first
independent accountability mechanism at an international financial institution. The
panel provides people and communities who believe that they have been or are
likely to be harmed by a project funded by IBRD or IDA access to an independent
body, where they can express their concerns and seek recourse. It is composed of
three international development experts, chosen from different countries, as well as
a small secretariat. Panel members serve one five-year, non-renewable term and are
prohibited from ever working for the Bank after their terms end. In fiscal 2019, the
panel marked its 25th anniversary.
During fiscal 2019, the panel received eight new complaints. It delivered to the
Board one investigation report related to two projects in Uganda concerning a
biodiversity offset. The panel also initiated a rural water supply project investigation in India. A Board review during the year led to the panel’s advisory function
being formalized and the panel being authorized to provide complainants with an
opportunity to read its investigation reports on a confidential basis prior to Board
meetings.
For more information and the Inspection Panel’s annual report, visit
www.inspectionpanel.org.

74	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

The World Bank Policy on Access to Information
Introduced in 2010, the World Bank’s Policy on Access to Information (AI Policy)
remains the standard for international development institutions and has made the
Bank a more effective development partner. The Policy is based on the concept
that any information in the Bank’s possession should be accessible to the public,
except for what falls under a defined list of exceptions. It has provided the basis
for the accompanying open initiatives—including Open Data, Open Finances,
the Open Knowledge Repository, and the Open Archives—all of which make the
Bank’s work more transparent, accessible, and accountable. It has also led to a
massive increase in the proactive disclosure of documents.
For information that is proactively disclosed, the Bank received more than 3 million visits to and 30 million downloads from the Documents and Reports database.
Overall in fiscal 2019, the Bank handled 696 public access requests for information.
For requests that are denied, the public can appeal by alleging a violation of
policy and/or public interest. The internal Access to Information Committee serves
as the first level of appeals, and its decisions are final for appeals alleging a public
interest ground. A second and final recourse for appeals alleging a violation of
policy is available through the external and independent Appeals Board, consisting of three international experts. In fiscal 2019, the Committee considered four
cases and no new appeals were filed before the Board.
For more information and to submit public access requests for information to
the World Bank, visit www.worldbank.org/en/access-to-information.

Integrity Vice Presidency and Sanctions System
Reflecting the Bank Group’s commitment to fight and prevent corruption, the
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) investigates allegations of fraud, corruption, collusion, coercion, and obstruction in Bank Group–financed projects, including those
involving Bank Group staff and corporate vendors. INT plays a fundamental role in
the Bank Group’s robust two-tiered adjudicative system, bringing cases for review
by the system’s adjudicators—the Bank’s Office of Suspension and Debarment and
IFC’s and MIGA’s counterparts at the first tier, and the Sanctions Board at the second tier. These adjudicators provide due process to parties suspected of wrongdoing and suspend and sanction those found to have engaged in misconduct. INT’s
Integrity Compliance Office engages with sanctioned companies that are working
toward release from sanction. INT also identifies integrity risks and draws lessons for
future operations, working closely with Bank Group task team leaders to mitigate
fraud and corruption risks in projects.
In fiscal 2019, the Bank Group sanctioned 53 firms and individuals, including
Odebrecht’s construction and engineering subsidiary, which was debarred for three
years. INT released 23 firms from sanction after they met agreed-upon conditions.
The Bank Group recognized 33 cross-debarments from other multilateral development banks (MDBs). Thirty-nine Bank Group debarments were eligible for recognition by other MDBs.
For more information and the World Bank Group Sanctions System’s annual
report, visit www.worldbank.org/integrity.

	

ENSURING ACCOUNTABILIT Y AND TRANSPARENCY IN OUR OPERATIONS 	

75

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

Group Internal Audit Vice Presidency
The Group Internal Audit Vice Presidency (GIA) provides independent, objective,
and insightful risk-based assurance and advice to protect and enhance the value
of the World Bank Group. GIA provides  senior management and the Board with
an independent view and reasonable assurance that processes for managing and
controlling risks—as well as their overall governance—are adequately designed
and functioning effectively. GIA delivers audits, as well as assurance and advisory
reviews, which cover operational and corporate functions and information technology systems and processes. GIA’s work is carried out in accordance with the Institute
of Internal Auditors’ International Professional Practices Framework.  
GIA focuses on institutional and stakeholder priorities and significant risks and
delivers around 25 engagements a year covering both advisory and assurance
work. Key topics covered in fiscal 2019 included environment and social risk management of projects, efficiency measures adopted by the Bank Group, the IDA18
IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window, IDA’s financial risk management, asset liability
management, operational risk management, coverage of disaster risk in operations,
information technology, and cybersecurity.
For more information and GIA’s annual and quarterly reports, visit
www.worldbank.org/internalaudit.

76	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

Deploying Resources Strategically

Prioritizing strategic interventions across the
World Bank Group
The World Bank—IBRD and IDA—works in close coordination with IFC and MIGA
to leverage the collective strength of the Bank Group. Our comparative advantage
comes from the powerful combination of country depth and global breadth, public
and private sector instruments and relationships, multisectoral knowledge, and the
ability to mobilize and leverage financing to support countries’ development priorities. Collaboration across the Bank Group has grown over time and spans activities
at the country, regional, sector, thematic, and global levels.
Through our financing, we help countries build stronger systems and institutions
and extend the impact of policy and institutional reforms beyond the boundary of
a single project. Our convening power and partnerships help shape and amplify
global development priorities. The Bank leads in operational innovation, learns from
experience, and uses evidence and high standards to deliver country results. Longterm relationships, deep country understanding, and a growing presence on the
ground make us a trusted advisor and honest broker. We are increasingly working in
the world’s most difficult settings—in fragile and conflict-affected states and where
poverty is most entrenched—while maintaining the quality of our portfolio. We
continue to innovate in financing, standards, and approaches, most recently with
the introduction of the Bank’s Environmental and Social Framework (ESF), which
came into effect in October 2018.
Sustaining and accelerating progress toward global goals requires a strong Bank
Group, so that we can provide innovative solutions and advice along with financial
firepower commensurate to the size of the challenge. Our Board of Directors and
management have supported creating a better Bank Group with their approval in
October 2018 of a capital package consisting of a $13.0 billion capital increase—our
largest ever—and a series of financial and policy reforms. This will enable the Bank to
support borrowers with an average annual financing capacity of about $100 billion
during fiscal 2019–30, up from $65 billion during fiscal 2014–16. The capital package
will allow the Bank Group to serve all clients, enhance our leadership on global issues,
mobilize finance for development, and continue to improve our business model.

Defining our engagement with countries
The Bank Group has a country-based model for providing financial, analytics, and
advisory services to our borrowers. These services—both the existing portfolio and
planned new activities—are outlined in the Country Partnership Framework (CPF),
prepared jointly by the Bank, IFC, and MIGA. The CPF frames our engagement with
the country for a period of four to six years and is informed by analysis, in particular
the Systematic Country Diagnostic (SCD); the country’s own development goals;
and our comparative advantage relative to other sources of financing and development services.
The CPF sets out objectives for the Bank Group’s program and provides an indicative mix of financing and analytical and advisory instruments to support it effectively. It includes a results framework of agreed outputs and outcomes for activities
under implementation and indicative ones for planned activities. These are used to
establish the program’s strategic direction and enable assessment of its effectiveness at the CPF’s conclusion.
	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

77

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

Each CPF is discussed with the Board of Directors and benefits from their guidance and inputs before it is made publicly available.
The SCD is the analytic underpinning of our engagement in a country. It is prepared in consultation with national authorities, the private sector, and other stakeholders, but reflects the views of the Bank Group. It also serves as the reference
point for consultations with the country and collective efforts on goals and measures that will have the most development impact.
The SCD and CPF are key elements of our country-based model and can provide
an analytical foundation for country platforms. As of the end of fiscal 2019, the Bank
Group has prepared SCDs in 104 countries and new CPFs in 79 countries.
The Multiphase Programmatic Approach, introduced in fiscal 2018, allows countries to structure a long, large, or complex engagement as a set of smaller, linked
phases under one program. The approach centers on adaptable design and learning from implementation to ensure that operations are more responsive to evolving country and project circumstances. It supports faster integration of experience
within and between phases to maximize results. Madagascar’s Improving Nutrition
Outcomes Program is the first to use this approach.
The Bank Group supports small states in addressing their unique development
challenges through the Small States Forum, which comprises 50 members, including 42 countries classified as small states according to the Bank definition and
eight countries with larger populations that face similar challenges. The forum
meets semi-annually at the Spring and Annual Meetings. The Spring 2019 Ministerial Roundtable focused on the blue economy and marine pollution, adaptation and
resilience, and economic and financial sustainability.

Setting global standards
The Bank plays an important role in setting and promoting global standards in
the areas of sustainability, transparency, accountability, inclusiveness, integrity, and
value for money. We pursue this role by: (i) continually evolving and updating our
policy framework to reflect and promote international standards and best practices, (ii) collaborating and harmonizing efforts with other multilateral development
banks and bilateral development agencies, (iii) participating in global forums to
help shape their agenda, and (iv) providing hands-on support and technical assistance to help client countries adopt and implement the evolving standards.
The 2016 reform of our Procurement Framework embeds and promotes key
principles in all Bank-financed procurement: integrity, value for money, economy,
fitness for purpose, efficiency, transparency, and fairness. We have also brought
our environmental and social requirements into closer harmony with emerging
inter­national standards through the new ESF, with an emphasis on transparency,
anti-discrimination, public participation, and accountability.
The Bank is also a standard-setter in bringing value not only to what we finance,
but how we finance by ensuring transparency in our funding.
As Independent Evaluation Group reports indicate, outcome ratings for Bank
lending have continued to improve. Its most recent Results and Performance of
the World Bank Group report found that the share of projects rated moderately
satisfactory or above rose from 69 percent of projects closed in fiscal 2012–14
to 76 percent in fiscal 2015–17. Bank performance ratings rose in tandem, from
70 percent for projects closed in fiscal 2012–14 to 76 percent in fiscal 2015–17.

Maintaining budget discipline to maximize the use of
financial resources
The Bank Group aligns its resources through an annual strategic planning, budgeting, and performance review exercise, called the “W” process for its three top-down
decision points and two bottom-up input phases:

78	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

W1:	Senior management sets strategic planning priorities in response to external
factors and clients’ demands.
W2:	Vice-presidential units (VPUs) review and respond to corporate priorities.
W3:	Senior management refines the guidance on priorities for each Bank Group
institution.
W4:	VPUs develop work programs in response to determined priorities and planned
budget envelopes.
W5:	Senior management for each institution review VPU-level allocations and agree
on aggregate budget proposals. The Board reviews and approves budgets for
the next fiscal year.
Over the past five years, the Bank Group has implemented measures to increase
efficiencies that have contributed to its financial sustainability. As part of the capital
package, the Bank and IFC have committed to additional efficiencies and economies of scale to help maintain budget sustainability and strengthen the Bank
Group’s financial position.
During the fiscal 2020–22 planning period, the Bank Group will focus on delivering on the priorities arising from the organization’s goals of ending extreme poverty
and boosting shared prosperity, as set out in its Forward Look. Specific priorities
include: (i) support for client-facing work, particularly for the scale-up agreed to
as part of the 18th replenishment of IDA (IDA18) and for areas affected by fragility, conflict, and violence; (ii) the IBRD scale-up and implementation of the capital package commitments; (iii) harnessing private sector solutions and markets to
mobilize financing for development; (iv) a renewed focus on human capital and on
enhancing the Bank Group’s leadership on global issues; and (v) improvement of the
business model for greater effectiveness and efficiency.

IBRD financial commitments and services
IBRD is a global development cooperative owned by its 189 member countries. As the
largest multilateral development bank in the world, it provides loans, guarantees, risk
management products, and advisory services to middle-income and creditworthy
low-income countries, and coordinates responses to regional and global challenges.
In fiscal 2019, new IBRD lending commitments amounted to $23.2 billion for 100
operations, of which three were IBRD and IDA blended operations.
For monitoring, reporting, and better decision making about its commitments,
the Bank applies a taxonomy of codes to all lending operations to reflect the sectors
and themes into which it directs its resources. Sector codes reflect high-level groupings of economic activities based on the types of goods and services produced, and
are used to indicate which part of the economy is supported by the Bank’s intervention. Theme codes reflect the goals and objectives of Bank-supported activities and
are used to capture the Bank’s support to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
TABLE 15  IBRD COMMITMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2015–19
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

Africa

1,209

669

1,163

1,120

820

East Asia and Pacific

4,539

5,176

4,404

3,981

4,030

Europe and Central Asia

6,679

7,039

4,569

3,550

3,749

Latin America and the Caribbean

5,709

8,035

5,373

3,898

5,709
4,872

Middle East and North Africa

3,294

5,170

4,869

5,945

South Asia

2,098

3,640

2,233

4,508

4,011

23,528

29,729

22,611

23,002

23,191

Total

	

FY15

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

79

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

TABLE 16  IBRD DISBURSEMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2015–19
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

FY15

Africa

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

816

874

427

734

690

East Asia and Pacific

3,596

5,205

3,961

3,476

5,048

Europe and Central Asia

5,829

5,167

2,799

4,134

2,209
4,847

Latin America and the Caribbean

5,726

5,236

3,885

4,066

Middle East and North Africa

1,779

4,427

5,335

3,281

4,790

South Asia

1,266

1,623

1,454

1,698

2,598

19,012

22,532

17,861

17,389

20,182

Total

TABLE 17  IBRD COMMITMENTS BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2015–19
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
SECTOR

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

1,025

843

561

754

2,561

Education

1,496

1,788

1,074

1,685

1,875

Energy and Extractives

3,361

4,599

4,434

3,084

2,847

Financial Sector

3,433

2,657

1,879

764

2,299

893

1,181

1,189

2,204

1,674

1,684

3,348

2,694

3,416

2,361

90

194

503

324

611

Health
Industry, Trade, and Services
Information and Communications
 Technologies
Public Administration

3,175

5,111

4,754

2,189

5,327

Social Protection

2,687

1,393

778

2,091

2,115

Transportation

3,202

4,569

2,551

2,074

1,485

Water, Sanitation, and Waste
 Management

2,664

4,192

2,000

2,610

1,571

23,528

29,729

22,611

23,002

23,191

Total

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector categories have
replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal year data reported
here have been revised to reflect the new categories and therefore may not match figures published in previous annual reports. Please visit projects.worldbank.org/sector for more information on changes.

TABLE 18  IBRD COMMITMENTS BY THEME, FISCAL 2018–19
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME

FY18

Economic Policy

FY19

1,124

1,363

10,409

8,514

Finance

2,501

3,546

Human Development and Gender

6,641

7,227

Private Sector Development

4,945

4,438

Public Sector Management

1,353

2,912

Social Development and Protection

2,844

2,453

Urban and Rural Development

8,593

6,511

Environment and Natural Resources Management

Note: As of fiscal 2017, new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal
data modernization effort. Because lending commitments for individual operations can be applied to multiple
theme categories, figures organized by theme do not add up to fiscal year commitment totals, and therefore
should not be summed. Past fiscal year theme data have been remapped but not revised according to the
new methodology. As they are no longer directly comparable, historical data are not included here. Please visit
projects.worldbank.org/theme for more information on changes.

80	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

TABLE 19  IBRD TOP COUNTRY BORROWERS, FISCAL 2019
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
COUNTRY

COMMITMENTS

COUNTRY

COMMITMENTS

India

3,024

China

1,330

Indonesia

1,950

Morocco

1,255

Jordan

1,591

Turkey

1,113

Egypt, Arab Republic of

1,500

Ukraine

950

Argentina

1,391

Colombia

930

IBRD financial resources and financial model
To fund development projects in member countries, IBRD finances its loans from its
own equity and from money borrowed in the capital markets through the issuance
of World Bank bonds. IBRD is rated Aaa by Moody’s and AAA by Standard & Poor’s,
and investors view its bonds as high-quality securities. Its funding strategy is aimed
at achieving the best long-term value on a sustainable basis for borrowing members. IBRD’s ability to intermediate the funds it raises in international capital markets to developing member countries is important in helping to achieve its goals.
All IBRD bonds support sustainable development. IBRD issues its securities
through both global offerings and bond issues tailored to the needs of specific
markets or investor types. Its bonds connect the private and public sectors to the
Bank’s development goals through investors such as asset managers, insurance
companies, pension funds, central banks, corporations, and bank treasuries from
around the world. IBRD issues bonds to investors in various currencies, maturities,
and markets, and at fixed and variable terms. It often opens new markets for international investors by issuing new products or bonds in emerging market currencies. IBRD’s annual funding volumes vary from year to year.
IBRD’s strategy has enabled it to borrow at favorable market terms and pass
the savings on to its borrowing members. Funds not immediately deployed for
lending are held in IBRD’s investment portfolio to provide liquidity for its operations. In fiscal 2019, IBRD raised U.S. dollar equivalent $54.0 billion by issuing
bonds in 27 currencies.
As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn
enough income to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities. Of fiscal 2019 allocable net income, the Executive Directors recommended
to the Board of Governors the transfer of $259 million to IDA, the transfer of
$100 million to the Surplus, and the allocation of $831 million to the General
Reserve. As part of its lending, borrowing, and investment activities, IBRD is
exposed to market, counterparty, country credit, and operational risks.

FIGURE 8  IBRD BUSINESS MODEL

Investments

IDA and trust funds

Loans
Income

Borrowings

Equity

Other development activities

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

81

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

TABLE 20  IBRD KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2015–19
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS, WHICH ARE IN PERCENTAGES
INDICATOR

Lending highlights
Commitmentsa
Gross disbursementsb
Net disbursementsb
Reported basis
Income statements
Board of Governors-approved
  and other transfers
Net income/(loss)
Balance sheet
Total assetsc
Net investment portfolio
Net loans outstanding
Borrowing portfolio
Allocable income
Allocable income
Allocated as follows:
  General Reserved
  International Development
  Association
 Surplus
Usable equitye,f
Capital adequacy
Equity-to-loans ratio (%)

FY15

FY16

23,528
19,012
9,999

29,729
22,532
13,197

(715)
(786)

(705)
495

FY17

22,611
17,861
8,731

(497)
(237)

FY18

FY19

23,002
17,389
5,638

23,191
20,182
10,091

(178)
698

(338)
505

212,931
45,105
155,040
158,853

231,408
51,760
167,643
178,231

258,648
71,667
177,422
207,144

263,800
73,492
183,588
213,652

283,031
81,127
192,752
228,763

686

593

795

1,161

1,190

36

96

672

913

831

650
0

497
0

123
0

248
0

259
100

40,195

39,424

41,720

43,518

45,360

25.1

22.7

22.8

22.9

22.8

Note: For a complete presentation of fiscal year data, see the full financial statements: www.worldbank.org
/financialresults.
a.	Commitments include guarantee commitments and guarantee facilities that have been approved by the
Executive Directors of the World Bank.
b.	 Amounts include transactions with IFC and loan origination fees.
c.	Effective June 30, 2019, derivatives are presented net by counterparty, after cash collateral received and the
presentation of the prior periods has been aligned for comparability.
d.	The June 30, 2019, amount represents the proposed transfer to the General Reserve from fiscal 2019 net
income, which was approved on August 8, 2019, by the Board.
e.	Excluding amounts associated with unrealized mark-to-market gains/losses on non-trading portfolios, net
and related cumulative translation adjustments.
f.	Usable equity includes the proposed transfer to the General Reserve.

The Bank Group’s Chief Risk Officer leads the risk oversight function and supports the institutional decision-making process via dedicated risk committees. In
addition, IBRD has put in place a strong risk management framework, which supports management in its oversight functions. The framework is designed to enable
and support IBRD in achieving its goals in a financially sustainable manner. One
summary measure of IBRD’s risk profile is the ratio of equity to loans, which is
closely managed in line with its financial and risk outlook. As of June 30, 2019, this
ratio stood at 22.8 percent, and the cumulative subscribed capital of IBRD totaled
$279.9 billion, including $17.1 billion paid-in capital.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/ibrd.

82	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

IDA financial commitments and services
IDA is the world’s largest multilateral source of concessional financing for the poorest countries. It provides financing in the form of development loans, grants, and
guarantees to support these countries’ efforts to increase economic growth, reduce
poverty, and improve the living conditions of the poor.
In fiscal 2019, 75 countries were eligible for IDA assistance. In addition, three
countries—Bolivia, Sri Lanka, and Vietnam, which graduated at the end of the IDA17
cycle—are receiving exceptional transitional support from IDA. New IDA lending
commitments amounted to $21.9 billion for 254 operations, of which three were
IBRD and IDA blended operations. These commitments included $13.8 billion in
credits, $7.8 billion in grants, and $358 million of IDA resources to back guarantees.
In addition, in fiscal 2019, 14 projects for a total of $393 million were approved for
support from the IDA18 IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window (PSW).
For monitoring, reporting, and better decision making about its commitments,
the Bank applies a taxonomy of codes to all lending operations to reflect the sectors
and themes into which we direct resources. Sector codes reflect high-level groupings of economic activities based on the types of goods and services produced;
these are used to indicate which part of the economy is supported by the Bank’s
intervention. Theme codes reflect the goals and objectives of Bank-supported
activities and are used to capture our support to the SDGs.

TABLE 21  IDA COMMITMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2015–19 
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

Africa

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

15,411

14,187

10,360

8,677

10,679

1,803

2,324

2,703

631

1,272

527

233

739

957

583

Latin America and the Caribbean

315

183

503

428

430

Middle East and North Africa

198

31

1,011

430

611

East Asia and Pacific
Europe and Central Asia

South Asia
Total

5,762

4,723

3,828

6,153

4,849

18,966

16,171

19,463a

24,010b

21,932c

a.	Figure does not include the commitment of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.
b.	Figure does not include $185 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA has
exposure of $36 million in guarantees and $9 million in derivatives.
c.	Figure does not include $393 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA has
exposure of $106 million in guarantees, $25 million in derivatives, and $1 million through funding of
IFC-PSW related equity investment.

TABLE 22  IDA DISBURSEMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2015–19 
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
REGION

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

Africa

6,595

6,813

6,623

8,206

10,190

East Asia and Pacific

1,499

1,204

1,145

1,252

1,282

Europe and Central Asia

314

365

310

298

931

Latin America and the Caribbean

383

303

229

223

340

Middle East and North Africa

194

44

391

569

647

South Asia
Total

3,919

4,462

3,970

3,835

4,159

12,905

13,191

12,668a

14,383

17,549

a.	Figure does not include the disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

83

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

TABLE 23  IDA COMMITMENTS BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2015–19 
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
SECTOR

FY15

FY16

FY17a

FY18

FY19

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry
Education
Energy and Extractives
Financial Sector
Health
Industry, Trade, and Services
Information and Communications
 Technologies
Public Administration
Social Protection
Transportation
Water, Sanitation, and Waste
 Management

2,525
2,124
1,461
661
2,197
687

1,849
1,431
2,814
443
1,191
841

2,025
1,773
1,891
1,227
1,246
1,541

1,442
2,836
4,028
546
2,062
1,991

2,796
1,767
3,468
870
1,736
1,963

265
2,744
1,928
2,191

78
1,500
2,475
2,277

519
1,954
1,913
3,271

419
5,013
2,112
1,455

779
3,109
2,163
1,709

Total

2,183

1,271

2,102

18,966

16,171

19,463

2,105

1,572

24,010b

21,932c

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector categories have
replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal year data reported
here have been revised to reflect the new categories and therefore may not match figures published in previous annual reports. Please visit projects.worldbank.org/sector for more information on changes.
a.	Fiscal 2017 IDA sector breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.
b.	Figure does not include $185 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA currently
has exposure of $36 million in guarantees and $9 million in derivatives.
c.	Figure does not include $393 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA has
exposure of $106 million in guarantees, $25 million in derivatives, and $1 million through funding of
IFC-PSW related equity investment.

TABLE 24  IDA COMMITMENTS BY THEME: FISCAL 2017–19
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME

FY17a

FY18

FY19

Economic Policy

1,791

468

1,073

Environment and Natural Resources Management

5,766

9,491

9,680

Finance

1,507

1,642

2,418

Human Development and Gender

6,471

7,509

7,860

Private Sector Development

4,837

4,240b

5,145c

Public Sector Management

1,936

3,827

2,513

Social Development and Protection

2,544

2,980

2,722

Urban and Rural Development

8,352

8,654

7,866

Note: As of fiscal 2017, new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal
data modernization effort. Because lending commitments for individual operations can be applied to multiple
theme categories, figures organized by theme do not add up to fiscal year commitment totals, and therefore
should not be summed. Past fiscal year theme data have been remapped but not revised according to the
new methodology. As they are no longer directly comparable, historical data are not included here. Please visit
projects.worldbank.org/theme for more information on changes.
a.	Fiscal 2017 IDA theme breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility.
b.	Figure does not include $185 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA currently
has exposure of $36 million in guarantees and $9 million in derivatives.
c.	Figure does not include $393 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA has
exposure of $106 million in guarantees, $25 million in derivatives, and $1 million through funding of IFC-PSW
related equity investment.

TABLE 25  IDA TOP COUNTRY BORROWERS, FISCAL 2019
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
COUNTRY

Ethiopia
Bangladesh
Pakistan
Kenya
Côte d’Ivoire

84	

COMMITMENTS

2,610
2,237
1,224
1,060
1,050

COUNTRY

Mozambique
Congo, Democratic Republic of
Burkina Faso
Niger
Mali

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

COMMITMENTS

980
812
797
733
599

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

IDA financial resources and financial model
Traditionally, IDA has been funded largely by contributions from high- and middleincome partner countries. Additional financing comes from Bank Group transfers
and borrowers’ repayments of earlier IDA credits. As part of the groundbreaking
IDA18 package, which covers fiscal 2018–20, IDA shareholders agreed to transform
IDA’s financing model, leveraging its strong capital base to pioneer a new model
for development finance that combines donor funding with funding raised in the
capital markets to support an ambitious policy package with focus on five special
themes: jobs and economic transformation; climate change; gender and development; fragility, conflict and violence; and governance and institutions. IDA received
its first-ever public credit rating—triple-A—in 2016. IDA’s financial strength is based
on its robust capital position and shareholder support, as well as on its prudent
financial policies and practices, which help to maintain its triple-A credit rating.
To support IDA18 financing, a total of 55 partners—five of which are new or
re-engaged contributing partners—agreed to provide SDR 16.1 billion (equivalent
to $22.6 billion) in grants, of which SDR 0.9 billion ($1.2 billion) is the grant element
from concessional partner loan contributions.* Partners are also providing SDR 3.6
billion ($5.1 billion) in concessional partner loans, or SDR 2.7 billion ($3.8 billion)
excluding the grant element of the loans, and SDR 2.9 billion ($4.1 billion) in compensation for debt relief under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative.
IDA18’s effectiveness was achieved in November 2017, when 60 percent of the
partner Instruments of Commitment (IoCs) and concessional partner loan agreements were received. As of June 30, 2019, 49 partners had submitted IDA18 IoCs
and concessional partner loan agreements totaling SDR 19.1 billion ($26.8 billion).
On April 17, 2018, for the first time, IDA issued $1.5 billion of debt in the international capital markets. This inaugural IDA bond received strong reception in the market, with total orders reaching $4.6 billion from around the world. Since then, IDA
has also launched an IDA Bills Program (beginning March 2019) that has raised over
$1.5 billion thus far, via 16 transactions and across one- to eight-month maturities.
The program has been successful in raising liquidity in both euros and U.S. dollars,
and IDA will continue to seek opportunities to diversify the currency composition.
The program has also attracted new investors to IDA in both Asia and Europe,
further benefiting the continued development of IDA’s capital markets presence.
IDA’s borrowing program enables it to significantly scale up support for achieving the SDGs, while offering investors an efficient way to contribute to global development. This optimization of IDA’s capital enables IDA to mobilize about three

* The Financing Framework for the IDA18 Replenishment is managed predominantly in Special
Drawing Rights (SDRs). U.S. dollar equivalent figures given here are calculated using IDA18 reference
exchange rates.

Borrowings

Non-concessional lending

Investments

Equity

	

Concessional lending and grants

Reflows and operating results

FIGURE 9  IDA BUSINESS MODEL

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

85

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

TABLE 26  IDA KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2015–19
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS, WHICH ARE IN PERCENTAGES
INDICATOR

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

Commitments

18,966

16,171

19,513a

24,010b

21,932c

Gross disbursements

12,905
8,820

13,191

12,718

14,383

17,549

8,806

8,154

9,290

12,221

163,234

167,985

173,357

184,666

188,553

Loans, grants, and guarantees

Net disbursements

a

Balance sheet
Total assetsd
Net investment portfolio
Net loans outstanding
Borrowing portfolioe
Total equity

28,418

29,908

29,673

33,735

32,443

126,760

132,825

138,351

145,656

151,921

2,150

2,906

3,660

7,318

10,149

147,149

154,700

158,476

163,945

162,982

1,435

1,453

1,521

1,647

1,702

Income statement
Interest revenue, net of
  borrowing expenses
Transfers from affiliated
  organizations and others
Development grants
Net income/(loss)
Adjusted net income

f

993

990

599

203

258

(2,319)

(1,232)

(2,577)

(4,969)

(7,694)

(731)

371

(2,296)

(5,231)

(6,650)

(94)

423

(158)

(391)

225

n.a.

n.a.

37.2%

37.4%

35.3%

Capital adequacy
Deployable strategic capital
 ratio

Note: n.a. = not applicable. For a complete presentations of fiscal year data, see the full financial statements:
www.worldbank.org/financialresults.
a.	Figures include the commitment and disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency
Financing Facility.
b.	Figure does not include $185 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA has
exposure of $36 million in guarantees and $9 million in derivatives.
c.	Figure does not include $393 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA has
exposure of $106 million in guarantees, $25 million in derivatives, and $1 million through funding of
IFC-PSW related equity investment.
d.	Effective June 30, 2019, derivatives are presented net by counterparty, after cash collateral received, on the
Balance Sheet.
e.	 Includes related derivative balances.
f.	Effective June 30, 2019, IDA introduced this new income measure to reflect the economic results of its
operations. Prior period numbers have been calculated and presented for comparability.

dollars in IDA commitment authority for every dollar of IDA18 development partner
contributions.
Development partners agreed to a financing envelope of $75.0 billion (equivalent to SDR 53.0 billion) to provide credits, grants, and guarantees to IDA’s client
countries. Of this amount, $63.9 billion is expected to be used on concessional
terms, $8.6 billion on IBRD terms for the Scale-Up Facility and transitional support,
and $2.5 billion for the PSW. IDA administrative expenses are recovered primarily
through the net charges and interest paid by recipient countries.
Every three years, development partners meet to review IDA’s policies, assess
its financial capacity, agree on the amount of financing for the next replenishment
period, and commit to additional contributions of equity that are required to meet
IDA’s objectives and development goals. The replenishment process for IDA19,
which covers fiscal 2021–23, is underway. It culminates in December 2019, when
contributing partners pledge their contributions to IDA19.
For more information, visit ida.worldbank.org.

86	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Mitigating risks stemming from global political and
economic uncertainties
The Bank Group’s Chief Risk Officer monitors the global political and economic
influences that could affect the institution’s financial sustainability. After two years
of firm growth, global economic growth slowed during fiscal 2019 and is expected
to remain subdued going forward. While growth in the United States accelerated,
activity in Europe and Japan remained slow. Commodity exporters generally recovered slowly from earlier price weakness, while net commodity importers grew
robustly. Some large emerging market and developing countries experienced strong
exchange rate pressures during the year, catalyzing higher inflation and slower
growth. The global growth slowdown prompted central banks in advanced economies to maintain a more accommodative monetary stance than was expected,
which should support growth going forward. Easier monetary policies have also led
to a pick-up in capital flows to emerging market and developing economies after a
period of weakness, as bond spreads for emerging market borrowers moderated in
the favorable environment.
Significant vulnerabilities remain, however. An unusually high degree of policy
uncertainty and geopolitical tensions remain overarching sources of risk, which
could trigger shifts in investor sentiment that adversely impact the external environment for the Bank’s borrowers. Elevated levels of corporate and sovereign debt
also present heightened risks, with many governments facing growing contingent liabilities relating to infrastructure projects and to their financial sectors. The
strength of macroeconomic policy frameworks of several large borrowers could also
be impacted by recent and prospective political changes. Increased protectionist measures weighed on global trade growth this year, and an escalation in such
measures could particularly affect the most open economies. Increased protectionism could also affect direct investment flows to developing countries. Commodity
prices remain volatile, and their movements impact many borrowers. In particular,
actual and potential disruptions to oil supplies from a number of countries present
an upward risk for prices.

	

DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	

87

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

Committed to Results
The World Bank helps to promote sustainable development in partner countries by providing financing, sharing knowledge, and working with the public and private sectors. Delivering integrated solutions to help countries address their development challenges requires a
focus on results. In recent years, the Bank has made important contributions across many
areas to support development results achieved by its partner countries.
For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/results.

1 	 Afghanistan: Since 2016, over

9,000 community profiles have been
created, nearly 8,800 new community
development councils elected, and
almost 7,500 community development
plans completed to improve delivery
of infrastructure and social services in
rural and urban areas.

8 	 China: Between 2010 and 2017, nearly

38,000 households in Jilin adopted
standardized farming practices,
helping each household increase their
annual income by an average of $430.

9 	 Côte d’Ivoire: Between 2015 to 2019,

300,000 poor individuals—more than
half of them women—benefited from
mobile money accounts with cash
transfers and access to digital financial
services.

2 	 Angola: Between 2015 to 2017, six

provincial water and sanitation utilities
were created. By April 2019, five of
these utilities had recovered costs, and
107,000 households were connected
to water supply systems.

10 	 Djibouti: Since 2012, almost 7,000

households have benefited from
increased access to water, and nearly
61,000 heads of livestock have gained
access to more secure water supply.

3 	 Bangladesh: By October 2018, 17,500

hectares of block plantations and
2,000 km of strip plantations were
completed in climate-vulnerable areas,
and nearly 40,000 people residing
in areas prone to saline, floods, and
droughts received basic needs and
livelihood support.

4 	 Benin: In 2018, a $30 million policy-

11 	 Arab Republic of Egypt: Between

2011 and 2016, over 4,400 people
were trained on pilot schemes to
improve surface and groundwater
management.

12 	 El Salvador: By 2017, the maternal

mortality rate in the public system
had fallen to 31 deaths per 100,000
live births, from 65.4 in 2006, and
infant mortality had dropped to
12.5 deaths per 100,000 live births,
compared to 26.9 in 2000.

based guarantee helped secure a $300
million commercial loan, replacing
short-term commercial debt and
saving Benin $44 million over the life
of the loan.

5 	 Bhutan: From 2014 to 2017, the

percentage of people with bank
accounts increased from 34 percent
to 65 percent after the government
improved access to financial services.

13 	 Indonesia: Between 2007 to 2015,

block grants to improve health and
education services reached almost
5 million people in roughly 5,500
villages across 11 provinces. Nearly 3.5
million women and children received
nutrition counseling and support, and
915,000 children were immunized.

6 	 Brazil: By 2018, peak-hour travel time

on São Paulo’s Metro Line 4, which
transports close to 750,000 passengers
daily, was reduced to 32 minutes,
compared to over an hour in 2002.

14 	Iraq: Since 2015, 320 km of roads

7 	 Cambodia: By December 2018, about

30,500 households in targeted districts
gained access to improved sanitation.

88	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2019

have been rehabilitated in liberated
zones and 19 bridges reconstructed,
benefiting over 2 million people.

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

Countries with active
IBRD or IDA operations
No active IBRD or IDA project,
ineligible, or no data

Russian Federation

Poland Belarus

27

Tunisia
Morocco

19
Cabo
Verde
The Gambia
Guinea-Bissau

Costa Rica
Panama

Mali

Burkina
Faso
Guinea
Côte
Sierra Leone
d’Ivoire
Liberia
Gh
Ghanaa
TTogoo
9 BBenin
n
Equatorial Guinea
nea
São TToméé andd PPríncipe
Sã
cipe

Guyana
Colombia

Ecuador

Peru

Mauritania
Senegal

Nigeria

Cameroon
Cam
Ca
ameroo
am

4

Brazil

25

26

ble energy generation nearly doubled
from 9 percent to 17 percent and
dependency on oil imports decreased
from 95 percent to 71 percent.

16 	 Jordan: Since 2013, over 2,000 private

sector jobs have been created for the
most disadvantaged, with women-owned
enterprises representing 85 percent of
beneficiaries.

17 	Kosovo: Over 900 households across

17 villages were connected to high-speed
internet in 2018.

18 	 Lao People’s Democratic Republic:

The average time to clear imports,
exports, and transits by customs fell by
47 percent, from 17.9 hours in 2009 to
9.4 hours in 2017.

19 	Mexico: Since 2009, a rural development

project has helped over 1,800 agricultural
businesses adopt better renewable
energy practices and efficient technologies, cutting carbon emissions by over
6 million tons.

7

St. Kitts
and Nevis

Antigua
and
Barbuda

Palau
Nauru

Seychelles

13

Comoros

Indonesia
Timor-Leste

South
Africa

Marshall Islands

Federated States
of Micronesia

Philippines

Maldives

Papua
New
Guinea

Kiribati

Solomon
Islands

Kiribati
Tuvalu
Samoa

Malawi
Vanuatu

Poland

Lesotho

Dominica

17
tia
Croatia
Bosnia andd
Herzegovina

Grenada

SSerbia
bi

Kosovo
Montenegro
Albania
North
Macedonia

20 	 Moldova: Between 2012 and 2018, over

24 	 Pakistan: Between 2015 and 2018, more

21 	Mongolia: Between 2007 and 2013, 560

25 	 Peru: From 2013 to 2018, 5.7 million

180 farmers received matching investment
grants and just-in-time business advice on
post-harvesting operations, and 65,000
hectares of land were covered under
sustainable land management practices.
classroom libraries were established in
all 383 rural primary schools, benefiting
130,000 students, and over 4,500 rural
primary teachers and school directors
were trained.

22 	 Nepal: Since 2016, after the

government adopted guidelines to
generate employment for marginalized
communities, over 70 percent of workers
recruited for road maintenance have
been women, 34 percent from socially
underprivileged communities, and 35
percent from minority ethnic groups.

23 	 Nigeria: Between 2012 and March 2019,

nearly 1,560 hectares of degraded land
was reclaimed, and more than 9,300
households benefited from livelihood
enhancement activities.

Fiji
Tonga

Mozambique
Eswatini

St. Lucia
St. Vincent and
the Grenadines

15 	 Jamaica: Between 2010 to 2017, renewa-

3

18

aoo
Lao
P.D.R.
Thailand Vietnam
Cambodia

Madagascar

Dominican
Republic
Uruguay

India

Sri
Lanka

Uganda
UUga
g
Kenya

ZZambia

Botswana

Argentina

5
Bangladeshh
Myanmar
yan r
Myanmar

Ethiopia

Rwandaa
m Rep
Dem.
Rep.
Burundi
of Congo
Tanzania

2

Paraguay

Chile

South
Sudan

Nepa
epal
pal
Nepal

Angola

6

Bolivia

Gabon
Gab
RRep. of
CCongo

Central
African
can
Rep.
ep
ep.

8
Bh
Bhutan

Rep.
RRe
e off
Yemen
Ye
Djibouti

Chad

23

China

22

24

30

10

Niger

21

Ukraine

15

16

11

Mongolia

Romania

12

Belize
Honduras
Gu
Guatemala
El Salvador Nicaraguaa

Rep. of
Egypt

Haiti

aica
Jamaica

Kazakhstan
20
Ukraine
ine
Moldovaa
29
Romania
Georgia
Uzbekistan
ekistan
an
Kyr
Ky
Kyrg
Kyrgyz Rep.
Bulgaria
Azerbaijan
j
Armenia
Tajikistan
Turkey
Afg
AAfghanistan
fgh
n
14
Lebanon
Le
1
Iraq
aqq
PPakistan
Paki
kiistan
an
Jo
Arab Jordan

Bulgaria

Mexico

Note: Data represents the IBRD/IDA active portfolio as of June 30, 2019.

28

Russian Fed.

than 900 schools across Balochistan
province became operational. Over
53,000 children—of which 72 percent
were girls—enrolled in these schools,
with 89 percent retention.

students benefited from quality public
education and more transparent
processes for the selection of principals
in 40,000 schools.

26 	 Rwanda: Between 2009 and 2017,

the productivity of hillside agriculture
increased tenfold in targeted irrigated
areas and fivefold in targeted nonirrigated areas, benefiting 292,000
people and reducing erosion and
sediment load by 76 percent.

27 	 Turkey: By the end of 2018, energy

generation capacity was expanded to
88.5 gigawatts, representing a roughly
47 gigawatt increase in less than 10
years, with 59 percent of this coming
from renewable sources.

IBRD 43838 | MAY 2020

28 	Ukraine: The Pension Reform Law,

approved in October 2017, helped
bolster the average pension benefit
to more than 27 percent of the average
wage.

29 	 Uzbekistan: Between 2016 and 2018,

over 55,000 children aged 3–6 years
were enrolled in half-day preschools,
over 4,000 preschool teachers were
trained, and materials and equipment
were provided to more than 2,400
rural preschools.

30 	Republic of Yemen: Since 2017,

cash transfers have been provided to
nearly 1.5 million poor and vulnerable
households, reaching 9 million
individuals. Forty-five percent of
the direct recipients were women.

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

World Bank Annual Report 2019
Financial Statements incorporated by reference. The Management’s Discussion and
Analysis and Audited Financial Statements of IBRD and IDA (“Financial Statements”)
shall be deemed to be incorporated in and to form part of this Annual Report. The
Financial Statements may be accessed at www.worldbank.org/financialresults.
Additional IBRD and IDA financial, lending, and organizational information is
available on the World Bank Annual Report 2019 website: www.worldbank.org
/annualreport.
For more information on the World Bank or its publicly-available data and
knowledge resources, visit online:
•  Finances One: financesapp.worldbank.org
•  Corporate Scorecard: scorecard.worldbank.org
•  World Bank Open Data: data.worldbank.org
•  Open Knowledge Repository: openknowledge.worldbank.org
•  World Bank Corporate Responsibility: www.worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility
•  World Bank Access to Information: www.worldbank.org/en/access-to-information

Production credits. The World Bank Annual Report 2019 was produced by the World Bank Group’s External
and Corporate Relations unit, under the direction of Jeremy Hillman in the Corporate Communications
department, with editorial coordination by Leslie Yun, Paul McClure, and Pawan Bali. Design by Naylor Design,
Inc. Typesetting by BMWW. Translation by the World Bank’s Translation and Interpretation Services. Printing by
Professional Graphics Printing Co. (Laurel, MD, USA).
Photography credits. Cover spread (from right to left): Gerhard Jörén/World Bank, Dominic Chavez/World
Bank, Arne Hoel/World Bank, Arne Hoel/World Bank, Ghullam Abbas Farzami/World Bank; Page 2: Stephan
Bachenheimer/World Bank; Page 3: Simone D. McCourtie/World Bank; Page 10: Grant Ellis/World Bank; Page
13: Grant Ellis/World Bank; Page 15: Sarah Farhat/World Bank; Page 16: A’Melody Lee/World Bank; Page 20:
Edmond Dingamhoudou/World Bank; Page 24: Tom Perry/World Bank; Page 28: Corridors of Serbia; Page 32:
Jessica Belmont/World Bank; Page 36: Arne Hoel/World Bank; Page 40: Rajendra Malla/World Bank; Page 42:
Conor Ashleigh/World Bank; Page 45: Steve Harris/World Bank; Page 49: Conor Ashleigh/World Bank; Page 55:
Dominic Chavez/World Bank; Page 65: Grant Ellis/World Bank.
This publication follows recommended standards for paper use set by the Green Press Initiative. The paper
contains postconsumer fiber, is certified FSC® and EcoLogo, and is manufactured using renewable biogas
energy and elemental chlorine-free processing.
© 2019 International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development / The World Bank
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1000
Internet: www.worldbank.org
Some rights reserved
1 2 3 4 22 21 20 19
This work is a product of the staff of The World
Bank. The boundaries, colors, denominations, and
other information shown on any map in this work do
not imply any judgment on the part of The World
Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or
the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
Nothing herein shall constitute or be considered
to be a limitation upon or waiver of the privileges
and immunities of The World Bank, all of which are
specifically reserved.
Rights and Permissions
This work is available under the
Creative Commons Attribution–
NonCommercial–NoDerivatives
3.0 IGO license (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO) http://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/igo.
Under the Creative Commons–NonCommercial–
NoDerivatives license, you are free to copy,
distribute, and transmit this work, for noncommercial
purposes only, under the following conditions:

Attribution—Please cite the work as follows: World
Bank. 2019. World Bank Annual Report 2019.
Washington, DC: World Bank. doi: 10.1596/9781-4648-1470-9. License: Creative Commons
Attribution–NonCommercial–NoDerivatives 3.0 IGO
(CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO).
Noncommercial—You may not use this work for
commercial purposes.
No Derivative Works—You may not alter, transform,
or build upon this work.
Third-party content—The World Bank does not
necessarily own each component of the content
contained within the work. The World Bank therefore
does not warrant that the use of any third-partyowned individual component or part contained
in the work will not infringe on the rights of those
third parties. The risk of claims resulting from such
infringement rests solely with you. If you wish to reuse a component of the work, it is your responsibility
to determine whether permission is needed for that
re-use and to obtain permission from the copyright
owner. Examples of components can include, but are
not limited to, tables, figures, or images.
All queries on rights and licenses should be
addressed to World Bank Publications, The World
Bank Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail: pubrights@
worldbank.org.
ISBN: 978-1-4648-1470-9
eISBN: 978-1-4648-1471-6
doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-1470-9

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

The World Bank comprises the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association
(IDA). The organization’s mission is to end extreme poverty and promote
shared prosperity in a sustainable way.
www.worldbank.org/annualreport

SKU: 211471

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

