e

fr
iq

r
Cent

du

Rice Cen

ue

ca

r
te

Afr
i

CGIAR

A
riz pour l’

Afr caR ce

More effective targeting of
research for development
Africa Rice Center (AfricaRice) – Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

AfricaRice Headquarters, Côte d’Ivoire
01 BP 4029, Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire
Telephone: (225) 22 48 09 10
Fax: (225) 22 44 26 29
Email: AfricaRice@cgiar.org
AfricaRice M’bé Research Station
01 BP 2551, Bouaké, Côte d’Ivoire
Telephone: (225) 22 48 09 20
Fax: (225) 31 63 25 78
Email: AfricaRice@cgiar.org
AfricaRice Regional Station for the Sahel, Senegal
BP 96, Saint-Louis, Senegal
Telephone: (221) 33 962 64 41, 33 962 64 93
Fax: (221) 33 962 64 91
Email: AfricaRice-Sahel@cgiar.org
AfricaRice Nigeria Country Office
c/o IITA, PMB 5320, Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria
Telephone: (234) 80 55 05 59 51, 80 34 03 52 81
Fax: (44) 20 87 11 37 86
Email: f.nwilene@cgiar.org
AfricaRice Benin Country Office
01 BP 2031 Cotonou, Benin
Telephone: (229) 64 18 13 13
Fax: (229) 64 22 78 09
Email: AfricaRice@cgiar.org
AfricaRice Madagascar Country Office
c/o FOFIFA, BP 1690 Antananarivo, Madagascar
Telephone: (261) 34 14 950 26
Email: AfricaRice@cgiar.org
AfricaRice Coordinating Office, Liberia
c/o CARI Station, Suakoko, Bong County, Liberia
Telephone: (231) 880 946 266, 770 750 547
Email: i.akintayo@cgiar.org

© Copyright Africa Rice Center (AfricaRice) 2018
AfricaRice encourages fair use of this material. Proper
citation is required. The designation used in the presentation
of materials in this publication do not imply the expression
of any opinion whatsoever by the Africa Rice Center
(AfricaRice) concerning the legal status of any country,
territory, city or area, or of its authorities, or concerning
the delimitation of its frontiers and boundaries.
Citation:
Africa Rice Center (AfricaRice). 2018. Africa Rice Center
(AfricaRice) Annual Report 2017: More effective targeting
of research for development. Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire: 40 pp.
ISBN:
Print 978-92-9113-394-9
PDF 978-92-9113-395-6
Writing and editing:
Green Ink (www.greenink.co.uk)
Photo credits:
Romaric Biaou, page 22; Mirian Hendriks, page 29. All
other pictures are by staff members of AfricaRice, and
networks and consortia convened by the Center.
Cover: AfricaRice is targeting its research to the needs of
rice stakeholders. For example, the development of highvalue varieties, such as Orylux 6 (shown here), is greatly
appreciated by Mr Ali Hema (inset), a veteran rice farmer
in M’be 1, Bouaké, Côte d’Ivoire.

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

About Africa Rice Center (AfricaRice)

AfricaRice is a leading pan-African research organization working to contribute to poverty alleviation and food
security in Africa through research, development and partnership activities. AfricaRice is a CGIAR Research
Center — part of a global research partnership for a food-secure future. It is also an intergovernmental association
of African member countries. The Center was created in 1971 by 11 African countries. Today its membership
comprises 26 countries, covering West, Central, East and North African regions, namely Benin, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria,
Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo and Uganda. AfricaRice headquarters is based in Côte
d’Ivoire. Staff members are located in Côte d’Ivoire and also in AfricaRice research stations in Benin, Liberia,
Madagascar, Nigeria, and Senegal. For more information, visit www.AfricaRice.org

Contents
Message from the Board Chair
and Director General	2

Positive impact of improved rice varieties for
millions in sub-Saharan Africa	

Research and innovation highlights	6

22

Rice data as public goods to enhance agricultural
development	24

Creation of a mini-core collection for
African rice (Oryza glaberrima)	6

GREAT step in approach to building
gender capacity at AfricaRice	26

Breakthrough in lowland rice breeding targeting
submergence tolerance	8
The next generation of rice varieties for the lowlands
in the making 	10

Excellence in capacity development:
Awards for AfricaRice PhD students	28

Mapping abiotic stresses of rice	12

Annexes	
Finance 	
List of donors 	
Board of Trustees 2017 	
Training 2017	
Publications 2017 	
Abbreviations 	

Toward sustainable farming systems	14
16

Valuation of rice postharvest losses in sub-Saharan
Africa	18

r
Cent

e

du

Rice Cen

ue

ca

r
te

Afr
i

The rise of locally produced aromatic rice in Senegal 	20

fr
iq

Innovation systems thinking demonstrated in
Ankazomiriotra, Madagascar 	

32
33
34
35
36
38

riz pour l’

A

Afr caR ce
AfricaRice Annual Report 2016

1

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

Message from the Board Chair and Director General
A key approach of AfricaRice in contributing to
providing enough food for the continent’s growing
populations is supporting efforts of African countries
to achieve self-sufficiency in rice. With continuous
increase observed in population growth rate and
resulting higher rice consumption rate over production
rate, AfricaRice is focussing on improving the access
to rice technologies and innovations. There is an urgent
need, however, to accelerate the process. Consequently,
AfricaRice is seeking to more effectively target its
research to the needs of rice stakeholders. This year’s
report highlights research and innovation activities
and resulting achievements that are underpinned by
the notion of targeting.

Research and innovation highlights
The characterization of the Center’s collection
of African rice (Oryza glaberrima) germplasm,
resulting in the development of a mini-core
collection, will maximize the utility and use of the
variation contained in this germplasm. This tool will
allow rice breeders across the continent and beyond,
easier access to valuable genes held in African rice
for introgression into new varieties, which will
be better suited to the environment and consumer
preferences, than existing ones.
New lowland varieties for both rain-fed and irrigated
ecosystems and new maps to aid targeting of abiotic-

Chair of the Board of Trustees, Prof. Em. Dr Ir. Eric Tollens (right), with Director General, Dr Harold Roy-Macauley

2

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

stress-tolerant varieties and related breeding efforts,
have been released across the continent over the
past few years. They aim at enabling rice farmers to
improve the quality and yield of their grain in the face
of numerous stresses.
A new partnership agreement with the Republic of
Korea has resulted in bringing Korea’s unique ‘Tongil’
rice varieties into play in Africa on a wide scale. This
is an illustration of AfricaRice continued engagement
in leveraging partnerships in all spheres of its work to
contribute to breeding useful varieties.
The introduction, testing and dissemination of baskets
of targeted ‘good agronomic practices’ (GAP baskets),
have included land-preparation options, variety choice,
crop establishment, weed management and nutrient
management. Success is attributed to the overarching
aim of the Africa-wide Rice Agronomy Task Force,
coordinated by AfricaRice in partnership with national
program agronomists, which is to sustainably improve
rice production and productivity. Some of the outputs
and the plans for scaling up components of GAP
baskets are reported.
The Ankazomiriotra innovation platform, a major
component of the rice sector development hubs in
Madagascar, is one of AfricaRice’s tried-and-tested
mechanisms for increasing the performance of rice
value chains. This platform is still growing, after 2.5
years of existence, and assuring the production of
quality seed of varieties such as NERICA 4 for local
and international use, constructing infrastructure
to upgrade the value chain, and seeing increasingly
strong linkages forged between the various actors in
the value chain.
The use of improved, modern practices in harvesting
and processing rice could result in as much gain
in milled rice as the use of new rice varieties with
‘traditional’ harvest and postharvest practices. This
suggests that investment in harvesting and postharvest
practices and technologies should at least match that
in varietal development.
AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

Our study on the high value that consumers in Dakar
place on aromatic rice brands and varieties confirmed
their increasing popularity in West Africa in recent
years. The research further suggests that advertising
and branding could be a key to promoting local
aromatic rice.
The revelation, from an impact study, of where
exactly along the rice value chain the adoption of
new improved varieties is having a positive impact
demonstrates the importance of targeting of research
and technologies. The study highlights the benefits
of contractual arrangements between processors and
producers to ensure the use of quality seed and best
farming and postharvest practices, which could be
integrated into a business model for rice farming.
AfricaRice strongly believes that big data in agriculture
are ‘global public goods’ just like the products
delivered through our research. We demonstrate this
by providing an update on activities that aim to render
our datasets open access in the context of the CGIAR
Platform for Big Data in Agriculture.
Gender research has been a vital component of the
CGIAR agenda for over 30 years, and AfricaRice is
building up its capacity in this vital area to improve
targeting of its technologies and services to all valuechain actors.
Talking of capacity-building, four of the PhD students
who successfully defended their theses this year have
also received awards for various aspects of their work.
This reflects the quality of the supervision provided
by the Center, and the award-winning research feeds
directly into research-for-development targeting.

Slow and steady expansion of the
Association
AfricaRice is unique among the CGIAR Centers in that
it is an association of Member States. The Republics
of Mozambique and Kenya submitted requests for
adhesion to AfricaRice in 2017 and 2018 respectively.
3

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Mozambique’s request has been duly accepted and
will be endorsed as the 27th member country of
AfricaRice during the Council of Ministers (CoM)
meeting scheduled for September 2018. In the case
of Kenya, a decision will be taken during the COM
and Kenya is lined up to be the 28th member country.

Relocation and streamlining
The Center embarked on streamlining its workforce
and facilities in 2017. In particular, new and
rehabilitated facilities in the areas of biotechnology,
grain quality and genetic resources (genebank
and seed unit) came online at the main research
station in M’bé. By the end of 2017, more than
half of AfricaRice’s 203 staff were stationed in
Côte d’Ivoire, with 63 of them at M’bé. Though
AfricaRice relentlessly pursues research and
development activities with partner institutions in
East and Southern Africa, office activities in the
East and Southern Africa Regional Office in Dar es
Salaam, Tanzania, were suspended and the majority
of senior staff was relocated to the Madagascar
Country Office.

Financial situation
In order to recover from three consecutive years
of budget deficit from 2015 to 2017, resulting from
continued reduction in CGIAR funding, huge
relocation costs and the writing-off of bad debts, the
Center established a 3-year financial recovery plan
(2018–2020) aimed at achieving annual revenue of US$
25 million and reserve days over the CGIAR threshold
level by 2020. These include streamlining measures
to reduce operational costs and efforts to maintain a
relatively appreciable restricted revenue level through
bilateral funding. The Centre is considered a going
concern and it has continued to adequately deliver on
its mandate. Intense advocacy was also established to
increase Member States’ payments of annual dues and
arears, which unfortunately has had very little effect.
4

Support to CGIAR System
Organization activities
The Board Chair and Director General continued
to be active participants in the activities of the
CGIAR System Organization, mainly through email
exchanges, conference calls, participation in the
inaugural General Assembly of Centers, and strategic
visits to partner institutions — as one of six delegates
to visit the new President of the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD). In these ways,
AfricaRice was able to contribute to the various issues
addressed by CGIAR, including CGIAR image,
resource mobilization and finance, governance, and
partnership frameworks.

Looking forward
While continued investments by countries have led
to improvements in their rice sectors, there is an
urgent need to accelerate the process if Africa is to
reach its target dates of attaining rice self-sufficiency.
Three key actions initiated for this are considered to
be promising:
Continental Investment Plan for Accelerating
Rice Self-Sufficiency in Africa (CIPRiSSA): The
CIPRiSSA studies are now being used to target
investments in the rice sector. Moreover, a Support
System for Accelerating Rice Self-Sufficiency in
Africa (SSARSSA) has recently been established
within the AfricaRice Strategic Support Unit
(under the Director General’s Office) to sustain
the momentum of CIPRiSSA and its expansion to
other countries.
Pan-African breeder and foundation seed capital in
M’bé: The establishment of a pan-African breeder and
foundation seed capital of the most popular improved
rice varieties on the market, was initiated in M’bé by
AfricaRice and its partners. It is based on a public–
private partnership business model that the Center
has developed to enhance the rice-seed value chain.
AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

The model creates synergy between agribusiness
and smallholders to meet the seed needs for food
security and generate value addition and jobs for
youth and women.
Rice Value Chain Resource Center (RVC-RC):
The RVC-RC is a framework integrating research
goods and services into rice-producing communities
in countries, within the context of an orchestrated rice
value chain (linking through contractual arrangements
the various actors of the rice value chain, including
banks, insurance brokers and viable markets), which
will result in the creation of business entities and

Harold Roy-Macauley

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

employment (especially for youth and women). This
model will also help every actor of the rice value
chain in Africa recognize the importance of research
in contributing to the establishment of lucrative
businesses. AfricaRice needs to position itself so that
it would be recognized as an institution that can do
relevant and meaningful development work to boost
member countries’ rice sectors and economies. This
means that the research that has to be done should
strictly respond to the demands of Member States,
which will motivate their investments in AfricaRice’s
research in particular and its sustainability in general.

Eric Tollens

5

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
Creation of a mini-core collection for African rice (Oryza glaberrima)
“Variation present in accessions conserved in
genebanks can best be used in plant improvement
when it is properly characterized,” say head of the
AfricaRice Genetic Resources Unit Marie-Noëlle
Ndjiondjop and her co-workers.1
With about 2700 accessions, AfricaRice holds the
largest collection of African rice in the world. An
indication of the variety contained in the collection is
seen in the diversity of seed types (see photo). Some of
the materials were used as donor parents in developing
the ‘New Rice for Africa’ (NERICA) varieties in the
1990s and 2000s, and the Advanced Rice for Africa
(ARICA) varieties in the 2010s.
Oryza glaberrima samples have also been sent to
researchers (mainly breeders) in the International
Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) and the
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), advanced
research institutes in six countries (146 samples) and
26 national programs in Africa (607 samples). This is
a demonstration of the value of the African rice in the
quest for improving rice breeding in general.
The African rice accessions maintained in the
AfricaRice genebank represent potential sources
of traits for developing improved varieties, which
could respond to a wide range of agricultural- and
food-systems challenges. Since detailed phenotyping
of a large germplasm collection in replicated multilocation multi-year trials is very expensive and timeconsuming, AfricaRice used high-density molecular
markers to select a ‘mini-core collection’. This
represents a smaller set of African rice germplasm,
which can easily be distributed to rice research and
breeding communities around the world to promote
the use of the species.

“For the molecular analysis, we used next-generation
genotyping by sequencing technology, which is
cheaper and high throughput,” says Ndjiondjop.
Using the large AfricaRice collection for the first time,
the team confirmed previous results of rice research
scientists: that African rice has a low level of genetic
diversity compared to the Asian rice (O. sativa) and
even its wild relative O. barthii.
The analyses revealed five groups of accessions, which
are primarily based on country of origin rather than on
growing environment. A mini-core of 350 accessions
captured 97% of the molecular diversity observed
across the entire collection and represents nearly every
country of origin. Seed multiplication of the minicore has been completed and preparation for detailed
phenotypic evaluation is underway. This will include
nutritional value and agronomic traits under abiotic
and biotic stresses. Once suitable source accessions
have been identified for a particular trait, they can be
used by breeders in developing improved varieties.
The creation of a mini-core collection is important in
various ways and three ways in which it could be put
into use are given below.
Searching for appropriate traits/genes—in particular, response to climate change. A recent study
led by the Institut de recherche pour le développement (IRD, France),2 in collaboration with partners
including AfricaRice, has shown that the reduction in
genetic diversity observed in African rice is related to
a bottleneck during domestication caused by a collapse
of the wild ancestor population during the drying of
the Sahara. One implication of this is that the surviving
African rice passed through extreme climate hardship,

1.Ndjiondjop M-N et al. 2017. Genetic variation and population structure of Oryza glaberrima and development of a mini-core collection using DArTseq.
Frontiers in Plant Science. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2017.01748.
2.Curby P et al. 2018. The rise and fall of African rice cultivation revealed by analysis of 246 new genomes. Current Biology. doi: 10.1016/j.
cub.2018.05.066.

6

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

An example of seed diversity in the mini-core of African rice.

Neighbor-joining phylogenetic tree of African rice collection
based on single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers. The
350 mini-core accessions are shown in blue.

suggesting that O. glaberrima is, in today’s terminology, ‘climate smart’ and a potentially useful source of
genes for adaptation to the climate changes that parts
of Africa can expect to face in the coming years.

then plan new collection missions to places for which
the genebank has little or no representative germplasm.

Identifying gaps that will inform further consolidation of the AfricaRice O. glaberrima collection. For
example, the study to establish the mini-core collection
revealed that the over 200 accessions from Togo came
from just two sites, and that two accessions were sufficient to cover the genetic variation in Togolese accessions in the collection. Similar situations were noted
for several other countries, including Côte d’Ivoire
and Nigeria. This strongly suggests that O. glaberrima
has been under-collected in some countries, and that it
would be worthwhile to conduct extensive gap analysis
on the collection and distribution of this species, and

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

Correcting errors that have occurred during germplasm acquisition and routine genebank operations.
Species misclassification (misidentification) and
handling errors are frequent for various plant species
conserved in genebanks. The research showed that
about 2% of the African rice accessions were likely
misclassified at some stage during germplasm acquisition or routine genebank operations. AfricaRice and
partners have identified species-specific diagnostic
markers that can be used to trace and correct errors
in the future.
Contact: Marie-Noëlle Ndjiondjop
<M.Ndjiondjop@cgiar.org>

7

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
Breakthrough in lowland rice breeding targeting submergence tolerance
Flooding in some parts of the African continent is
now a recurrent phenomenon that may be attributable
to climate change. It is causing rice production losses
especially in rainfed lowland areas. In Nigeria, for
example, 22% of rice production loss in 2012 was
a result of flooding. In simple terms, rice varieties
grown in the f looded areas could not tolerate
prolonged submergence. With rainfall predicted to
increase in frequency and intensity in parts of the
continent, submergence tolerance is a key trait for rice
breeders to target.
AfricaRice’s response to this challenge was the
initiation of breeding activities for submergence
tolerance in 2010, within the context of Phases 2
and 3 of the ‘Stress tolerant rice for poor farmers
in Africa and South Asia’ (STRASA) project. This
was motivated by persistent requests from national
partners with major flood-prone rice areas such as
Madagascar, Mali, Nigeria and Sierra Leone.
In 2017, the first two submergence-tolerant varieties,
bred through marker-assisted selection, were released
in Nigeria as FARO 66 and FARO 67. This was a result
of the introduction of the Sub1 gene for submergence
tolerance into popular rice varieties in the country.
FARO 66 is based on the high-yielding FARO 52
(a.k.a. WITA 4, which is widely grown in Africa),
appreciated for its good grain quality. The new variety
is submergence tolerant but otherwise almost identical
to FARO 52.
FARO 67 (see photo) is based on FARO 60 (a.k.a.
NERICA-L 19, also widely grown in Africa) which,
because it grows tall under very fertile conditions,
is prone to lodging. The new variety is not only
submergence tolerant, but also shorter and earlier
maturing than the older version (making it less

susceptible to lodging) and higher-yielding under both
flooded and non-flooded conditions.
“These varieties are so popular that demand — both
local and international — is exceeding supply from
Nigerian seed production,” says lowland rice breeder
Ramaiah Venuprasad. “Liberia, Sierra Leone and
Uganda have all requested seeds.”
To help meet this demand, the two submergencetolerant varieties are also being multiplied at the
AfricaRice M’bé station in Côte d’Ivoire.3 Meanwhile,
upgraded varieties carrying the same Sub1 gene are
in advanced field testing in Madagascar.
Further progress made in breeding for irrigated and
rainfed lowland agro-ecosystems are highlighted
below.
Senegal. Out of a total of 15 new varieties released
in Senegal in 2017, six of them were introduced
through AfricaRice (Table 1): (i) AfricaRice aromatic
hybrid AR051H,4 (ii) two other AfricaRice-developed
varieties (WAS 73-B-B-231-4 and WAB 2098-WAC31-TGR2-WAT 85), (iii) IRRI variety IR 72593-B-32-3-8-2B promoted through the STRASA project,
(iv) variety OH10 from the Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, and (v) FAROX 521-288-H1
from the Nigerian national program.
All of these varieties were advanced through the
evaluation network of the Africa-wide Rice Breeding
Task Force. Two of them (WAS 73-B-B-231-4 and
the IRRI variety) are salinity tolerant and therefore
suitable for both saline irrigated lowlands and
mangrove-swamp agro-ecosystems, and three (08
FAN 10, WAB 2098-WAC3-1-TGR2-WAT 85 and
FAROX 521-288-H1) are adapted to both irrigated and
rainfed lowland systems.

3. See ‘Pan-African breeder and foundation seed capital in M’bé’ in the Foreword to this annual report.
4. See ‘Senegal set to release hybrid rice cultivars’, AfricaRice Annual Report 2016, pages 13–14.

8

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

Table 1. Lowland varieties released in 2017
Country

Total

Origin

Ethiopia

4

AfricaRice (2);
CIRAD Madagascar (2)

Ghana

6

AfricaRice (1);
Nigerian NARS (1);
Ghanaian NARS (4)

Nigeria

2

AfricaRice (2)

Senegal

6

AfricaRice (3);
CAAS (1); IRRI (1);
Nigerian NARS (1)

CA AS, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences; CIRAD, Centre
de coopération internationale en recherche agronomique pour le
développement; IRRI, International Rice Research Institute; NARS,
national agricultural research system.

Ethiopia and Ghana. Between these two countries,
a total of 10 lowland varieties were released in 2017
(Table 1). Six of them were introduced through
AfricaRice and four were developed by the national

program of Ghana. The six varieties released in Ghana
are tolerant to iron toxicity and four are aromatic
(AGRA-CRI-LOL-1-7, AGRA-CRI-LOL-2-27, CRI1-11-15-5 and CRI-1-11-15-21), while among the four
varieties released in Ethiopia, two are cold tolerant
and the other two are drought tolerant.
By becoming a member of the CGIAR Excellence
in Breeding platform, which was launched in 2017,
AfricaRice now has more scope for assessing its
breeding program and, by acting on the resulting
recommendations, improving the efficiency of its
breeding efforts, especially those geared towards the
rapid replacement of old mega-varieties. The platform
includes Queensland University (Australia) and other
members of the CGIAR Research Program on Rice
(RICE: CIAT, IRRI and national partners). RICE will
undergo assessment in 2018.
Contact: Baboucarr Manneh <b.manneh@cgiar.org>
and Ramaiah Venuprasad <r.venuprasad@cgiar.org>

Submergence-tolerant ‘NERICA-L 19–sub1–tall’, the line destined to become FARO 67, at a field day in Nigeria

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

9

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
The next generation of rice varieties for the lowlands in the making
Between the 1970s and early 1990s, the Republic
of Korea developed ‘Tongil’ rice varieties through
successful crossing of (irrigated) indica and temperate
japonica rice types. Tongil varieties are typically very
high yielding in Korea, where all rice is irrigated.
In 2010, the Korea–Africa Food and Agriculture
Cooperation Initiative (KAFACI) was launched in
partnership with 16 African nations to start to bring
this valuable germplasm to Africa.
In 2016, AfricaRice, Alliance for a Green Revolution
in Africa (AGRA), the Center on Conf lict and
Development at Texas A&M University (ConDev)
and the Korean Rural Development Administration
(RDA) launched the ‘Africa rice development
partnership’ project and, shortly after that, AfricaRice
and RDA signed a 9-year strategic partnership
agreement under KAFACI. In September 2017,
KAFACI rice breeder Kang Kyoung-Ho arrived at
the AfricaRice Senegal regional station to coordinate
the project in 20 African countries.

“Our objective is to use Korean Tongil lines and to
create new African Tongil-type lines to develop new
‘super-yielding’ varieties with good grain quality for
the irrigated and rainfed lowlands of Africa,” says
Kang. “In Tongil materials, the Korean japonica parent
brings traits that confer high yield potential that may be
missing in the typical lowland indica varieties.”
There is a problem, however: indica x japonica
crosses typically show high levels of sterility (as did
the Oryza sativa x O. glaberrima crosses used in the
production of NERICA varieties). To overcome this,
Korean breeders performed many crosses to identify
fertile combinations and then used anther-culture to
rapidly fix Tongil lines. This method is now being used
in producing the new African Tongil-type materials.
Meanwhile, the Korean Tongils act as bridge parents
for crossing with indica rice, displaying much less
sterility than direct indica–japonica crosses.

Inauguration of the Africa–Korea Rice Breeding Lab (AKRiL), AfricaRice Senegal regional station

10

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Donated by the Rural Development Administration of the Republic of Korea under the Korea-Africa Food
and Agriculture Cooperation Initiative, AKRiL will be used to develop elite rice varieties for Africa.

In July 2017, the Africa–Korea Rice Breeding Lab
(AKRiL) was inaugurated at the AfricaRice Senegal
regional station (see photos). The lab has 10 trained
staff, including Kang.
In December 2017, KAFACI–AfricaRice ran a
workshop for about 30 people, including rice breeders
from 19 countries across Africa. “The workshop
was designed to level the playing field for African
rice breeders,” says Kang, “as there is huge diversity
between the most advanced facilities on the continent
and those who conduct almost no breeding of their
own.” Consequently, the workshop covered the
basics of modern rice breeding and introduced the
participants to standardized testing, recording and
selection methods to improve the quality of rice
breeding data. At the end of the workshop, each
breeder was given seeds of Tongil materials selected
by the participants as a whole from observational yield
trials during their visit.
AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

“Each country received seeds of materials to test
for adaptability to their home environments,” says
Kang. “They may decide to promote some of these
as varieties in their own right, but more importantly
they should be used in national breeding programs.”
In 2016 and 2017, the Africa-wide Rice Breeding
Task Force sent seven and then five Tongil lines,
respectively, for multilocation testing in five countries.
Subsequently, Mali and Senegal selected one Tongil
line each for advancement in their national breeding
programs. These lines were selected for their earliness
and high yields relative to local check varieties, and
appealing grain quality traits.
Contact: Kang Kyoung-Ho <K.Kang@cgiar.org>,
Baboucarr Manneh <B.Manneh@cgiar.org> and Sam
Bruce-Oliver <s.bruce-oliver@cgiar.org>

11

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
Mapping abiotic stresses of rice
AfricaRice has invested — and continues to make
significant investments — in developing rice varieties
tolerant to abiotic stresses. But are these varieties
getting to the farmers who need them and are we
testing them in the right sites?
Answers to these questions could partly be provided
through the approach of mapping, which allows the
identification of areas where rice is grown under
particular stress conditions. AfricaRice crop modeler
Pepijn van Oort spent four years preparing such maps
for four abiotic stresses.5

local level. The work broadly determined, however,
that drought is the major abiotic stress likely to affect
a third of the rice area in Africa.
Conversely, severe cold was well mapped to specific
climate zones but affects only 3–7% of the rice area
and these are mainly concentrated in the Sahel and
highlands. While iron toxicity is a potential threat in
12% of the cultivated rice area (see example map of
Côte d’Ivoire), salinity is a problem in just 2% of the
cultivated rice area.

Drought and cold were simulated for representative
sites with the ORYZA2000 crop growth model
(AfricaRice version) and then extrapolated using a
(Köppen–Geiger) climate zone map. In each country
(12 for drought and 19 for cold), a number of sites
were selected in major rice-growing areas in different
climate zones with the aid of a program developed by
the ‘Global yield gap atlas’ (GYGA) project. For each
site, crop growth was modeled with ORYZA2000
(AfricaRice version), AgMERRA weather data and
two soil types (typical upland and typical lowland).
“As an off-shoot from this project, we developed the
AfricaRice Weather Database,” says van Oort, “which
is freely available online.”6
Iron toxicity and salinity risk were mapped with a
soil map (Harmonised World Soil Database) and crop
maps. All these source data are in the public domain
and are open access.
Drought mapping proved problematic as local variation
(due to topography) is greater than climate-induced
variation. Consequently, mapping on a continental
scale is inappropriate and needs to be done at the

Direct and indirect effects of iron toxicity in inland valleys can
lead to 40–45% rice yield reductions in lowlands.

Salinity was well mapped for inland sites, but the
resolution of the mapping somewhat masked the
major impact of salinity in narrow coastal mangrove
agro-ecosystems.
With the maps and accompanying tables generated,
development agents are better positioned to target
stress-tolerant varieties to those countries and areas

5.van Oort PAJ. 2018. Mapping abiotic stresses for rice in Africa: Drought, cold, iron toxicity, salinity and sodicity. Field Crops Research, 219: 55–75.
doi: 10.1016/j.fcr.2018.01.016.
6.http://eservices.africarice.org/weatherdata/index.php

12

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Iron-toxicity risk in Côte d’Ivoire
Probability (0–1, legend top left) of presence of iron-rich soil, on the standard background of Google Earth. Such maps are available
for all African countries. The added pie charts show the frequency of observed leaf bronzing — low (green), moderate (orange) and
red (severe) — used for validation.9 Note: iron toxicity occurs almost solely in poorly drained rainfed lowlands and very rarely in
rainfed uplands or well-drained irrigation schemes; in the calculations of area potentially affected by iron toxicity, this soil map was
combined with a rice area map.

that need them. At the same time, the data enable
researchers to select stress hot spots in the various
climatic zones that are close to non-stress areas for
screening their materials.
“AfricaRice has a good track record in variety
dissemination, particularly with the NERICA varieties
in the early 2000s,” says van Oort. “The outputs of
this project mean that we now have the means to

disseminate the new generation of stress-tolerant
varieties to those areas that desperately need them.”
All the maps and tables generated by the project are
publicly available.7
Contact: Pepijn van Oort8 <pepijn.vanoort@wur.nl>

7.https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataverse/AfricaRice?q=Abiotic+stress+maps+for+rice+(STRASA)
8.Current affiliation: Wageningen Plant Research.
9. Chérif M, Audebert A, Fofana M and Zouzou M. 2009. Evaluation of iron toxicity on lowland irrigated rice in West Africa. Tropicultura, 27: 88–92.

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

13

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
Toward sustainable farming systems
From 2012 to 2017, the Africa-wide Rice Agronomy
Task Force developed and tested far m-level
technologies to improve rice productivity in Africa.10
Over five years, the task force sought to quantify yield
gaps and their sources, introduce and validate new
technologies, and test a ‘basket’ of good agricultural
practices (GAPs) (see photo, below). It identified a
number of GAPs for increasing rice yield, including
fertilizer management (especially via RiceAdvice11),
weeding frequency and use of mechanical weeders,
use of certified seed of improved varieties, bunding
and field-levelling.

In 2017, the Agronomy Task Force teamed up with private
company Intermech in Tanzania to begin production of motorized
weeders.

The AfDB-funded ‘Support to agricultural research
for development of strategic crops in Africa’ (SARDSC) project (2012-2017), which included the testing
and dissemination of GAPs, found that the adoption
of GAPs did not significantly improve rice yields in
irrigated lowlands but doubled yields under rainfed
lowland conditions (1.8– 4.8 t/ha compared to

0.8– 2.4 t/ha using farmers’ practices) and increased
yields under upland rice conditions (1.9–5.1 t/ha
compared to 1.5–2.7 t/ha with farmers’ practices).
More than 50,000 farmers in 21 AfricaRice member
countries directly benefitted from these production
increases.

On-farm GAP testing experiments in Idete village,
Kilombero, Tanzania.

In 2017, a motorized weeder (see photo, above) for
rainfed lowland and irrigated conditions was developed
in response to orders from Tanzania and other
countries (e.g. Nigeria and Uganda). The motorized
weeder was adapted by AfricaRice, working with a
private company in Tanzania (Intermech) and national
partners, by combining the features of double-row
Indian and Japanese-type motorized weeders for
effective weed control. Earlier tests of the weeder
with 331 farmers were positive, with 85% of them
considering it as a cost-effective and time-saving
option. It was preferred mostly for its effectiveness for
weed control and stability. About 70% of the farmers
indicated that they would like to buy and own the
weeder individually while 30% preferred to acquire
it as a group, because they could not afford to buy it
on their own.

10. For more information on the functioning of the task force, see ‘Africa-wide Rice Agronomy Task Force’, AfricaRice annual report 2012, pages 4–10.
11. www.riceadvice.info/en/

14

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

With the research under our belts and the value of the
GAP technologies known, the next phase is outscaling
of the GAP basket and RiceAdvice at large scale to
reach millions of farmers. Much of the outscaling is
going to be through the AfDB-funded ‘Technologies
for African agricultural transformation’ (TAAT) Rice
Value Chain Compact, which will be implemented in
nine countries with spill-over in three countries in
the first year.
Meanwhile, the CGIAR Research Program on rice
agri-food systems (RICE) was launched in 2017 with
five flagship projects. Flagship project ‘Sustainable
farming systems’ aims to develop and deliver
sustainable intensification and diversification options
for rice-based farming systems. It consists of three
clusters of activities: (1) farming systems analysis,
(2) intensification and mechanization, and (3) farm
diversification. Farming systems analysis provides
the entry point for identifying opportunities for
intensification and diversification. In collaboration
with the Sustainable Rice Platform, the project will
contribute to the development, validation and scalingup of multidimensional sustainability indicators.
Innovative technologies are being designed to
address issues identified by farming systems analysis,
participatory diagnostics and other tools.
Key technologies that are in the scaling phase in Africa
include RiceAdvice, direct seeding, alternate wetting
and drying (AWD), combinations of stress-tolerant rice
varieties and management practices, and conservation
agriculture — many of which have been validated by
agronomy task force activities. The project considers
farm diversification as a major avenue to improving
farmers’ livelihoods and evaluates other staple
crops, pulses, vegetables, fish, livestock and trees as
diversification options in rice-based farming systems.
Whole-farm productivity, income, gender equity,
labor productivity, diet diversity, and environmental
sustainability are assessed to make sure that there are
no major trade-offs among them.

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

Map of CGIAR Research Program on Rice Flagship Project
3 (RICE-CRP-FP3),** Support to Agricultural Research for
Development on Strategic Crops in Africa (SARD-SC) and
Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation (TAAT)*
project counties
* Tentative, Africa-wide Rice Agronomy Task Force may not work
in all countries; ** in 2017 only, countries may change each year.

With global demand for rice projected to increase
by more than 10% by 2030 over 2014 figures, it is
essential that rice-based farming systems not only
become more productive, but also fully sustainable to
avoid the wasteful practice of exhausting the resources
in one site and simply moving to another. We must
manage farmland worldwide to feed the current
population and the generations to come. TAAT, RICE
and many other projects in the pipeline will play their
roles in this for rice.
Contact: Senthilkumar Kalimuthu
<K.Senthilkumar@cgiar.org>
and Kazuki Saito <k.saito@cgiar.org>

15

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
Innovation systems thinking demonstrated in Ankazomiriotra, Madagascar
Among the innovation platforms (IPs) created through
the ‘Support to agricultural research for development
of strategic crops in Africa’ (SARD-SC) project, the
Ankazomiriotra IP in Madagascar has been growing
in number and business relationships.
Initiated in July 2015 in upland rice agro-ecosystems
in the central highlands of Madagascar, it covers 404
square kilometers with over 30,000 inhabitants in 16
villages. The objective of creating this platform was
to improve business relationships along the rice value
chain, with an initial focus on the introduction of the
drought-tolerant and locally preferred rice variety
consumed by the communities, NERICA 4, and related
good agricultural practices (GAPs).

“When we visited the platform in April 2016, there
were a little over 100 members,” says AfricaRice social
scientist, Josey Kamanda. “Now there are over 400,
with 45% of them being women. This is remarkable,
as our observation for most IPs has been the reluctance
of the IP leadership to quickly expand or draw in
new members.” Members of the Ankazomiriotra
IP come from all 16 villages and include farmers
representing a total of 23 farmer organizations, input
dealers, transporters, traders, processors, artisans,
microfinance providers, and agricultural technicians.
The growth of business relationships has been enhanced
through the general motivation of platform members
to embrace basic IP principles. During ‘innovation

Ankazomiriotra innovation platform actors during field training: chairman (left), facilitator (middle) and member (right).
16

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

clinics’ organized by AfricaRice, farmers themselves
selected GAPs for field-testing, which has resulted in
them systematically adopting practices such as the use
of quality seed, optimum plant spacing, insecticidal
seed treatment, optimum seeding rate, timely weeding,
and organic and inorganic fertilizers. This has helped
increase not only rice productivity, but also rice area by
52%, corresponding to around 73 hectares.
Despite this breakthrough, the good news for
producers is that the price of paddy on the local market
has been maintained — the leadership of the IP puts
this down to the credit-guaranteed sale mechanism
adopted, which has enhanced grain quality and market
availability. Subsistence farmers have also converted
themselves to seed producers. In the 2017/18 season, a
total of 13.5 tonnes of quality NERICA 4 seeds as well
as 193 tonnes of seed of other varieties were produced
by these farmers, with some of them even selling seed
to the World Food Programme.
When AfricaRice provided a range of machinery and
equipment to the IP through the Japan Emergency
Rice Initiative, the members were so motivated that
they used their own resources to construct a storage
facility to house them. The operators report very high
demand for mechanization services, to the point where
it is now proving difficult to satisfy all the requests.
Nirina Jean Patrick Rakotoarivelo, facilitator of
the Ankazomiriotra IP (see photo, facing page),
reports ongoing improvement of relations between
the various rice value-chain actors: in particular,
relationships between farmers and seed producers,
and the microfinance provider and other value-chain
actors. Moreover, collaboration with a local bean
IP provided the critical mass necessary to advocate
for support to agriculture, such as aggregation and
transport services. The inter-IP collaboration has also
enhanced crop rotation.
Rakotoarivelo also reports ongoing need for capacitydevelopment in governance, leadership and the use
of new technologies (especially RiceAdvice), and
AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

Rice harvest in the Ankazomiriotra community, Betafo District
of Vakinankaratra Region, Madagascar.

training for artisans in the fabrication of the ASI
thresher–cleaner and seeders. Sidi Sanyang, leader
of the AfricaRice Rice Sector Development Program
indicates that some of these issues will be tackled
under the new ‘Technologies for African agricultural
transformation’ (TAAT) project.
While the IP has established and maintains a working
relationship with a local microfinance provider, it is
also seeking a capital loan from the Bank of Africa
to build an ‘aggregation center’ comprising storage
warehouse, and processing and marketing facilities.
“The outstanding feature of the Ankazomiriotra
IP is its desire to grow,” says AfricaRice rice value
chain technology transfer officer Abiba Omar
Moussa. “According to the latest report from
Rakotoarivelo, there is an ongoing objective to
increase the membership of the IP and to extend
its area of influence to neighboring communities.”
This is because the people of the Ankazomiriotra IP
seemingly think they are into a profitable business and
are happy and keen to share this with their neighbors
far and wide. Long may this innovation systems
thinking continue!
Contact: Josey Kamanda <j.kamanda@cgiar.org> and
Abiba Omar Moussa <A.Omar@cgiar.org>
17

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
Valuation of rice postharvest losses in sub-Saharan Africa
agricultural research institutes through the Africawide Postharvest and Value Addition Task Force.

Estimated figures for postharvest losses in rice in
Africa have been around for many years. Some authors
have even claimed up to a 50% loss during postharvest
processes. In an attempt to render these figures
scientifically viable, AfricaRice carried out a study on
postharvest losses from the field to the market in seven
countries with the aim of determining, in physical and
monetary terms, postharvest losses; the segment of the
value chain where these losses occurred as well as the
magnitude of the losses; and establishing a protocol to
measure changes in postharvest losses in the future.
This study was conducted within the context of the
‘Rice post-harvest project’ funded by Global Affairs
Canada and the ‘Support to agricultural research for
development of strategic crops in Africa’ (SARD-SC)
project funded by the African Development Bank
(AfDB).

As such, detailed results were best considered on a
‘losses per value-chain segment’ basis. Two scenarios
were considered for the measurements: farmers’
‘traditional’ conditions and practices (scenario 1),
and ‘ideal’ conditions in the form of the best currently
available postharvest practices and technologies
(scenario 2) (see photos for example of ‘traditional’
and ‘ideal’ drying floors).

The methodology consisted of the establishment of
an experimental protocol including the measurement
of both quantitative (harvesting, threshing, drying,
parboiling, milling and storage) and qualitative
(impurities/cleanliness, head-rice/broken-rice ratio,
grain dimensions, swelling capacity, and chalkiness)
parameters. The protocol was validated by the national

The study revealed that average postharvest loss
in study sites for scenarios 1 and 2 were estimated
at 14% and 2.5%, respectively, while qualitative
losses accounted for 20% of total postharvest losses.
Harvest timing was revealed as a major contributor
to postharvest losses. “Local practice is to harvest
rice with low moisture content to aid threshing,” says

It should be noted that not all countries were able to
look at every segment of their rice value chain, in part
because some countries do not have every segment
(e.g. there is no parboiling in Uganda) and in part
because some national partners did not have enough
resources to cover all segments in the time available.

Traditional rice drying (left: Goronyo, Nigeria) and improved rice drying surface (right: Glazoué innovation platform, Benin). The
clean concrete surface and surrounding walls of the improved infrastructure protect the drying rice from a high proportion of the
impurities that laying the tarpaulin on the ground exposes rice to in traditional drying.

18

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

AfricaRice grain quality and postharvest specialist
Sali Ndindeng, “but this leads to massive losses due to
grain-shattering in the field. This is because the grains
are, very often, left to dry for a long time.
Analysis of a combination of plant morphological
characteristics and grain moisture content reveals
that the best time to harvest rice in order to minimize
shattering, in-field stacking, and threshing losses, is
when the grains have 20–22% grain moisture. Timely
harvest of grain with this grain moisture content can
save up to 23% of rice yields.” This new research
estimates overall postharvest losses for sub-Saharan
Africa as a whole in the range of 9% to 17%. This
was estimated to be worth a staggering US$ 14–600
million a year. Yes! Over half a billion dollars! What,
is most surprising is that those countries that produce
the most rice have the highest losses — in particular
Nigeria, Mali and Sierra Leone.
The good news, however, is that the adoption of
current best practices can reduce postharvest losses
to 2.5%, salvaging 10–15% of the continent’s rice
yield. Furthermore, this study has formed the basis for
targeting critical areas of intervention by AfricaRice,

in the struggle to reduce postharvest losses. For
example, farmers who are members of innovation
platforms established in the rice sector development
hubs, have been trained to identify the best time to
harvest rice (i.e., when the grains have 20–22% grain
moisture).
Experience has shown that while training significantly
enhances the value-chain actors’ ability to make best
use of equipment that is provided and thus their profits,
training alone is insufficient — those trained in a piece
of equipment who do not have the resources to acquire
that equipment tend to revert to traditional practices
after the training.
“When you compare the increased yield provided
by new varieties with the grain that can be saved
by improving postharvest handling and processing,
investment in postharvest practices and equipment
should be at least at par with that for variety
development,” says Ndindeng. This study also forms
a scientific basis for policy- and decision-making by
governments with terms of investments to reduce
postharvest losses.
Contact: Sali Ndindeng <S.Ndindeng@cgiar.org>

The use of improved, modern practices in processing rice could result in significant gain in milled rice.

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

19

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
The rise of locally produced aromatic rice in Senegal
Before the rice-price crisis of 2008, the approach to
developing the rice sector in Senegal focused on the
supply chain. After the crisis, the focus shifted to the
value chain — what do consumers value and what
do they want when they go to the market to buy rice?
The veracity of such a statement could be demonstrated
by the current phenomenon observed in the Senegal
rice market. Demand for aromatic (fragrant) rice is
increasing rapidly in urban parts of Senegal such
that it can now be estimated to make up about 25%
of Senegalese rice imports. To boost local production
of aromatic rice, in 2009, Senegal released three
AfricaRice aromatic varieties — Sahel 177, Sahel 328
and Sahel 329. These varieties have now become part
of the farm-level seed mix in production areas. The
question is, however, are they valued by consumers?
In an attempt to answer this question, AfricaRice
carried out experimental auctions with women

shoppers at a major market in Dakar, the capital city,
which is home to 75% of Senegal’s urban population.
The experimental auction was to determine the
willingness of the urban population of Senegal to
pay for imported and local aromatic rice varieties in
comparison with ‘standard’ imported non-aromatic
rice (see photo below).
“Women shoppers were chosen because they are
the major decision-makers in rice purchases,” says
AfricaRice value-chain economist Mandiaye Diagne,
“and, predictably, 89% of our sample said they were
involved in rice purchase decisions for their households.”
Three quarters of consumers were willing to pay an
average of 20% price premium for aromatic rice over
‘standard’ non-aromatic rice, corresponding to about
US$ 0.12 more per kg. While local rice typically
attracts a significantly discounted price compared to

Experimental auctions were carried out by AfricaRice to determine the willingness of
the urban population of Senegal to pay for imported and local aromatic rice varieties in
comparison with ‘standard’ imported non-aromatic rice.
20

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

imported brands, the three locally produced aromatic
rice varieties attracted premiums of only 4–8% less
than those for imported aromatic brands. Moreover,
those who had already made up their minds to buy
domestic aromatic rice, were willing to pay a premium
of up to 35%, corresponding to $0.20 more per kg.
Major factors influencing this willingness to pay
were ethnicity, household size and awareness of the
existence of (imported and local) aromatic rice. Four
ethnic groups that make up 87% of the Senegalese
population (Wolof, Sereer, Pulaar and Diola) were
willing to pay a premium for aromatic rice. While
the historical relationships between ethnic groups and
rice were not part of this study, it is well known (in
Senegal) that the Diola have a stronger cultural and
social relationship with rice than any other groups.
This was also true for populations buying for larger
households, though only marginally so, and those who
know about and prefer aromatic rice (for its aroma
and taste) and were aware of its availability on the
local market.
One disadvantage of aromatic rice vis-à-vis local
rice producers, however, is the typically low yields of
aromatic varieties compared with non-aromatic ones.

This is compounded by the low availability of certified
seed in Senegal. These issues point to the need for
upgrading the aromatic-rice value chain, especially in
terms of seed production, harvesting and postharvest
handling. What is lost in terms of productivity is,
however, seemingly gained with the price premiums
these varieties attract.
Given consumers’ keenness to purchase aromatic
rice, there is also a need to raise awareness about
its existence on the market through advertising. The
packaging and branding segment of the value chain
also needs to make a strong distinction for locally
produced aromatic rice, so that it could be easily
identified in the market by customers.
“In 2013, the total production of fragrant rice in
Senegal was estimated at 40,000 tonnes, representing
around 15% of the total fragrant rice imports of the
country,” says Diagne. “By upgrading the fragrantrice value chain, Senegal will move ever closer to its
goal of rice self-sufficiency, not just in terms of total
quantity, but also in terms of delivering the kinds of
rice that consumers want to buy and eat.”
Contact: Mandiaye Diagne <m.diagne@cgiar.org>

In addition to aromatic Sahel varieties (Sahel 177, Sahel 328 and Sahel 329) that are making rapid headway in Senegal, AfricaRice
has also developed the aromatic hybrid variety, AR051H, which was released in Senegal in 2017.

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

21

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
Positive impact of improved rice varieties for millions in sub-Saharan Africa
Since the creation of AfricaRice in 1971, the
development and dissemination of improved rice
varieties for local rice agro-ecosystems, such as the
WABs, the WAS, the WITAs, the Sahels, the NERICAs
and the ARICAs have been a major component of the
Center’s work. The mid-1990s saw the development
of the first NERICAs.
An analysis of the impact of improved rice varieties
on poverty reduction and food security in Africa,12
based on a metadata analysis of published impact
assessments for the period 2000–2014 and data from
farm household surveys (see photo) undertaken in
2014 in 16 countries, was published in 2017. “The
objectives were to determine where impact was

effectively occurring along the ‘impact pathway’, how
many people were no longer poor or food insecure
because of the adoption of improved varieties, and
the 15-year trends,” explains AfricaRice impact
assessment economist Aminou Arouna.
The study revealed that the adoption of NERICA
varieties by farmers had increased from about 10% in
2000 to about 53% in 2014, with a huge leap observed
after the 2008 rice crisis. A combination of increasing
number of adopters and increasing area planted
with improved varieties by adopters, rice area under
NERICA varieties grew from about 200,000 hectares
in 2006 to 650,000 ha in 2008 and then to 1.4 million
ha in 2014.

Farmers and AfricaRice partners from Ilonga Agricultural Research Institute (ARI-Ilonga) during a survey on
the impact of improved rice varieties at Morogoro (Tanzania).
12. Arouna A, Lokossou JC, Wopereis MCS, Bruce-Oliver S and Roy-Macauley H. 2017. Contribution of improved rice varieties to poverty reduction and
food security in sub-Saharan Africa. Global Food Security, 14: 54–60.

22

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

For yield, however, a decreasing trend was observed
over time. This could be attributed to the fact that rice
farmers still practise the habit of saving grain as seed
for the next season. Because rice is a self-pollinating
crop it ‘breeds true’; however, the viability of saved
grain used as seed decreases over time.
Income generated from the sale of rice has increased
over time, and this could be attributed to increasing
grain price on the market and farmers increasing the
areas cultivated with improved varieties. In the case
of farmers who have adopted NERICA, their income
increased from an average of US$ 25 per capita
in 2004 to $58 per capita in 2014. The adoption of
improved rice varieties has resulted in about 1 million
households (corresponding to 8 million people), in
16 countries in Africa, having been lifted out of
poverty and 0.9 million households (corresponding
to 7.2 million people) are no longer food insecure
(see Figure).

The study characterized non-adopters as those who
have never heard about the new varieties plus those
who, while knowing they exist, have no access to them.
To enhance the adoption of improved varieties, focus
should be on increasing awareness of the existence of
improved varieties, increasing awareness of farmers
on the importance of replenishing their seed regularly
by the use of certified seeds of improved varieties to
maintain their yield advantages, and facilitating the
access of farmers to these seeds.
With increasing effects of climate change, the current
crop of high-yielding varieties is not going to be
enough. For the future, varieties with high yield and
adapted to climate change (drought, flood, salinity,
etc.) — such as the ARICAs — will be required.
About 18 ARICAs are already available and focus of
diffusion should be on ARICA and other new varieties
such as the Tongil-types.
Contact: Aminou Arouna <a.arouna@cgiar.org>

40%
35%

200

30%

150

25%

100

15%

20%

50

10%
5%

0

Percentage of households

250

0%

Th Nig
er
e
G
am
bi
Et a
hi
op
ia
R
w
an
da
Be
ni
n
To
go
S
Bu ene
g
rk
in al
a
Fa
C
am so
er
oo
n
G
ha
na
C
ôt Ma
e
l
d’ i
Iv
o
Ta ire
nz
Si
er ani
a
ra
Le
on
e
N
ig
M
ad eria
ag
as
ca
r

Number of thousand households

Impact on poverty (thousand of households)
Impact on poverty reduction (%)

Percentage and number of households saved from poverty due to adoption of improved rice varieties in SSA countries in 2014.

Percentage and number of households saved from poverty due to adoption of improved rice varieties in SSA countries in 2014.

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

23

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
Rice data as public goods to enhance agricultural development
Public goods generated through research should not be
limited only to technologies, tools, models, practices
and methods, and policy options. These goods, which
are to be freely available to the public, are ‘built’ on
data, which also should be freely available to the public.
The CGIAR Platform for Big Data in Agriculture
was established in 2017, “to increase the impact of
agricultural development by embracing big data
approaches to solve development problems faster,
better and at greater scale than before”.13 In effect, it
is all about making agricultural data available to the
public for achieving greater development impact. The
platform is led by CIAT and the International Food
Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) and includes all 15
CGIAR Centers.
The willingness of AfricaRice to make rice data
available to the public is confirmed by the Center’s
publishing policy that demands “open access, open
data”. The Center adopted an Open Access and
Data Management Policy in 2014 that includes
implementing CGIAR recommendations on making
information products such as data and publications
open access.
The CGIAR Data Management Task Force, with
representatives from each of the Centers (including
the AfricaRice biometrician), defined a core set of 15
metadata elements.14
Its willingness to take this further by ensuring that rice
data generated contributes effectively to agricultural
development is illustrated by the words of the
AfricaRice biometrician Ibnou Dieng: “Everything we

do in the AfricaRice Data Integration and Biometrics
Unit now comes under the umbrella of the CGIAR
platform for big data in agriculture”. The platform
facilitates access to data, networking and partnershipbuilding among scientists, academia and the private
sector, and demonstrates the power of CGIAR big data
analytics and use of data in pilot-testing technologies
to be scaled up. The platform also supports projects
that convert data into decision-making tools.
AfricaRice has since developed a standard template
and workflow for the collection and collation of raw
data and associated metadata. Activities of the task
force are now carried out under Pillar 1 of the big data
platform, which addresses access to data.
Since most CGIAR Centers were using Harvard
University’s Dataverse as primary repository for open
data, AfricaRice relocated its existing open data from
CKAN (Comprehensive Knowledge Archive Network)
to Dataverse (see illustration of the AfricaRice
Dataverse home screen),15 which has the advantage
of generating a DOI (digital object identifier) for each
dataset, so that it can be referenced just like any other
publication.
In addition, the big data platform is taking steps
toward data discoverability across CGIAR with
the open Dataverse CGIAR repositories visible
through GARDIAN (Global Agricultural Research
Data Innovation & Acceleration Network), a data
harvester.16
By the end of 2017, AfricaRice had made the following
datasets openly available online: abiotic-stress maps

13. https://bigdata.cgiar.org/about/
14. ‘Metadata’ describe datasets in terms of such attributes as objective, location and year of study, variable/trait descriptions, units of measurement or
category descriptions, and reference to documented methods used to generate the data, as well as the researchers who gathered and processed
the data.
15. https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataverse/AfricaRice
16. http://gardian.bigdata.cgiar.org/index.php#!/

24

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

for rice;17 long-term trials on rice double-cropping
in Senegal; AfricaRice Weather Database; weed
inventory and characteristics; Africa-wide Rice
Breeding Task Force trials in 13 countries from 2015–
2016; diagnostic survey of local rice-based production
systems in Africa in 14 countries from 2012; and yieldgap surveys in 19 countries from 2012–2014.
“We have made great strides in making our data
freely and publicly available,” says Dieng, “and we
now have mechanisms in place to ensure open access
to all future data for the benefit of researchers and
development practitioners worldwide and, ultimately,
farmers and other rice value-chain stakeholders.”
Contact: Ibnou Dieng <i.dieng@cgiar.org>

Everything that AfricaRice does revolves around data. The
WeedManager app, for example, is based on datasets from
extensive research.

17. https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataverse/AfricaRice?q=Abiotic+stress+maps+for+rice+(STRASA).

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

25

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
GREAT step in approach to building gender capacity at AfricaRice
“When I took on the mantle of AfricaRice gender focal
person, I felt that I needed some deeper understanding
of how to integrate gender not only in my own research,
but also in the Center’s strategies,” says value-chain
economist Gaudiose Mujawamariya. AfricaRice’s
understanding of gender issues was deepened in
2017 through involvement in the ‘Gender-responsive
researchers equipped for agricultural transformation’
(GREAT) project.
The GREAT project, which is a collaboration between
Cornell University (USA) and Makerere University
(Uganda), runs courses to “equip researchers to create
more inclusive and effective agricultural systems by
addressing the priorities of both women and men in
sub-Saharan Africa”.18 AfricaRice’s proposal to apply
gender principles in the ‘Stress tolerant rice for Africa
and South Asia’ (STRASA) project won a place on the
2017–2018 course, ‘Gender-responsive cereal grains
breeding’ (see photos).
A major outcome of the training was the realization
that gender issues needed a shift of emphasis in
AfricaRice. While the STRASA protocol requires
that at least 30% of participating farmers are women,
STRASA and the majority of other AfricaRice projects
have typically included farmers — women farmers in
particular — in technology testing and transfer rather
than technology development.
“Despite more women farmers participation in
STRASA participatory varietal selection activities,”
says high-altitude rice breeder Negussie Zenna, “the
participation alone did not seem to contribute to
higher adoption rate of new varieties unless women
were empowered to make decisions on which variety
to adopt at a household level and have access to and
control over the resources necessary to cultivate the
variety of their choice.” For researchers to develop

technologies that respond to the needs of both men
and women, both men and women farmers need to
be involved from the start, in order to identify their
own specific needs.
“It was the right time for this course,” says
Mujawamariya, who wants to use the work as a
launchpad for increasing institutional awareness of
gender work. While it would be impractical for all
AfricaRice researchers to attend a GREAT course, “it
would be good for project coordinators to do so,” says
Mujawamariya. But GREAT runs one course a year,
and entry to that course is competitive.
Mujawamariya and Zenna thus have the important
task of sensitizing Center management, colleagues
and partners. One proposal advanced by management
is to carry out in-house training, sharing practical
tools for integrating gender research and building on
a gender-dissemination guide developed by a former
gender focal person. “We will also encourage our
Capacity Development Unit to include gender as part
of its core course for all trainees, including our national
partners,” says Zenna.
“Gender is more than a box-ticking exercise for a
donor,” says Mujawamariya, “it requires funding
to have a positive impact in every research-fordevelopment project we do. It is good to have a male
researcher, a breeder, already on board with gendersensitivity, as he is well placed to advocate to our male
colleagues and fellow researchers.”
Contact: Gaudiose Mujawamariya
<g.mujawamariya@cgiar.org> and
Negussie Zenna <n.zenna@cgiar.org>

18. www.greatagriculture.org/

26

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Negussie Zenna (right) following up interviews being administered to farmers on their households varietal
preferences and choices as part of the AfricaRice project for GREAT

Gaudiose Mujawamariya (right) and Negussie Zenna in discussion with Hale Ann Tufan, one of the GREAT
principal investigators
AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

27

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Research and innovation highlights
Excellence in capacity development: Awards for AfricaRice PhD students
AfricaRice has a long track record of hosting,
supervising and supporting postgraduate students
pursuing research on rice in Africa. In 2017, ten PhD
students successfully defended their theses and were
accorded doctoral degrees. Of these 10, four have also
won awards for various aspects of their work.

Shadrack Kwadwo Amponsah
Shadrack Amponsah is a research scientist in
agricultural mechanization at the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research Crops Research
Institute, Kumasi, Ghana. He received the award of the
‘Most Published Author (Engineering publications)’
in the category Practitioners/Projects from the
Ghana Institution of Engineering during the fourth

Engineering Excellence Awards, 2017. Amponsah’s
research, co-supervised by AfricaRice scientists,
Sali Ndindeng and Jean Moreira, evaluated field
performance and economic feasibility of various rice
harvesting systems. The research confirmed that total
paddy yield and grain quality are influenced by factors
such as rice variety, good crop management practices,
timely harvesting of paddy, and good processing and
handling methods. Amponsah also showed that the
mechanized harvester tested offered profit margins
of about 200%, with break-even (paying off the
capital purchase) occurring in just two seasons. Such
information is of great value to policy-makers looking
into agricultural mechanization, while it also guides
breeders toward varieties with low shattering rate and
good threshability.

Preliminary on-station testing and evaluation of the Sifang mini rice combine at AfricaRice Cotonou station: Shadrack Amponsah
with colleagues Ella Djidohokpin (center) and Fatima Asana (left).
28

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Stella Kabiri-Marial
Stella Kabiri-Marial currently works as a senior
research officer and is program leader for Technology
Promotion and Outreach at the National Agricultural
Research Organisation in her home country of Uganda.
Kabiri-Marial was awarded the prestigious Best Poster
Award at the 2015 biennial meeting of the European
Weed Research Society for her PhD research on
the parasitic weed Rhamphicarpa fistulosa, which
was conducted at AfricaRice and Wageningen
University. Rhamphicarpa has become a problem
for rice cultivation as farmers have increasingly
expanded production into the African lowlands. Co-

supervised by former AfricaRice agronomist Jonne
Rodenburg, Kabiri-Marial found that Rhamphicarpa
requires daylight and water-saturated soil. While the
parasitic weed can grow without a rice host, such
plants are shorter than those on rice and produce a
fraction of the seed. Rhamphicarpa manipulates rice
to produce carbohydrates, which it then siphons off
via the root. The research showed that management
of Rhamphicarpa is necessarily going to have to be
very different from that of the other rice-parasitic
weed, Striga, which infests upland rice. She has,
however, laid some of the groundwork for the future
Rhamphicarpa management as more rice is affected
due to increasing rice area and climate change.

Stella Kabiri-Marial’s PhD graduation at Wageningen University & Research: handing her the degree is her promoter, Prof. Niels
Anten; they are watched by (from left to right) Onzima Robert, her paranymph during the defense of her thesis, Jonne Rodenburg,
and Lammert Bastiaans, her day-to-day supervisor.
19. See also ‘Profiles of selected PhD candidates — Stella Kabiri’, AfricaRice annual report 2012, pages 52–53.

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

29

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Delphine-Lamare Mapiemfu
Delphine Mapiemfu won the Best Junior Researcher
Award from the Ministry of Scientific Research and
Innovations of her home country of Cameroon. Her
research was on the impact of farming and postharvest
practices on harvest and postharvest losses. The
research made significant and new contributions
toward identifying reliable factors for modelling
postharvest losses in Cameroon and the development
of site-specific recommendations to reduce such losses.
In particular, Mapiemfu identified where exactly in
the value chain losses were occurring, the influence
of biophysical factors on grain quality, the importance
of preharvest practices for grain quality, and the value

of the GEM parboiling technology for reducing both
qualitative and quantitative losses. Reducing rice
losses is a key component in increasing the quantity
and quality of rice produced on the continent. Sali
Ndindeng supervised her work at AfricaRice.

Cynthia Nwobodo
Cynthia Nwobodo, co-supervised by head of
AfricaRice Knowledge Management Unit Marc
Bernard, won the Vice Chancellor’s Postgraduate
Award of the University of Nigeria for her studies on
‘Communication linkages among actors in the rice
value chain in Nasarawa and Benue States, Nigeria’.
Communication among the various actors in a value

Postharvest loss assessment survey in Ndop rice sector development hub, Cameroon: Delphine Mapiemfu (center) and colleague
interview a local farmer
30

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

chain is of immense value if the value chain is to be
efficient. Nwobodo found that while formal horizontal
linkages (between actors of the same type) were
embraced by input dealers, processors and traders,
few farmers belonged to associations, and formal links
between consumers were entirely lacking. Vertical
linkages between different levels of the value chain
and with support actors were also very few. The most
disadvantaged were women, illiterate and poor valuechain actors, who all had very little communication
with peers and other actors. Moreover, value-chain
actors were not seeking information which would
facilitate them linking with others or for financial
advice. This scenario is about as far from a good
business model as it is possible to get and helps explain
the lack of competitiveness in the Nigerian rice value

chain, which has been attributed to information
asymmetry. It also indicates the amount of work that
may be required to upgrade the value chain to increase
efficiency from farmers to consumers.
“AfricaRice is proud of its award-winning students and
hopes that they will continue to thrive in agricultural
research and development, and successfully transfer
their passion and knowledge to their youngsters,”
says head of AfricaRice Capacity Development Unit
Khady Nani Dramé. “Seeing a student complete his/
her degree training with such a great achievement is
so fulfilling.”
Contact: Khady Nani Dramé <k.drame@cgiar.org>

Training of Agricultural advisory service providers from the National Agricultural and Rural Advisory Agency of Senegal (ANCAR)
in rice production techniques at the AfricaRice Regional Training Center in Senegal, October 2017.
AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

31

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Finance
Statements of activity (expressed in thousands of US$)
Total
2017

Total
2016

Revenue and gains
  Grant revenue
   Windows 1 and 2

3,807

4,249

  Window 3

4,323

6,304

  Bilateral

10,475

13,275

  Total grant revenue

18,604

23,828

  Other revenue and gains

388

456

  Total revenue and gains

18,992

24,284

17,153

19,811

188

581

  Non-CGIAR collaboration expenses

1,807

2,893

  General and administration expenses

1,786

2,665

–

–

  Total expenses and losses

20,934

25,950

Operating surplus/deficit

(1,941)

(1,666)

Gain/loss on sale of assets

35

0

Restructuring cost/others

(1,260)

(211)

6

14

(190)

(379)

(3,351)

(2,242)

Expenses and losses
  Research expenses
  CGIAR collaboration expenses

  Other expenses and losses

Financial income
Financial expenses

Surplus (Deficit) for the year

32

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

List of donors
AfricaRice sincerely thanks all the donors who have generously contributed to its success:
•	 AfricaRice Member States
•	 African Development Bank (AfDB)
•	 Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA)
•	 Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA)
•	Belgium
•	 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
•	Canada
•	 Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS)
•	 CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS)
•	 CGIAR Platform for Big Data in Agriculture
•	 CGIAR Research Program on Policies, Institutions, and Markets (PIM)
•	 CGIAR Research Program on Rice Agri-food Systems (RICE)
•	 Côte d’Ivoire
•	 Crop Trust
•	 Department for International Development (DFID)
•	 European Union (EU)
•	 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
•	 German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ)
•	 German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ) GmbH
•	 International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
•	 Japan (MAFF, MOF, MOFA)
•	 Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)
•	 Japan International Research Center for Agricultural Sciences (JIRCAS)
•	Liberia
•	Nigeria
•	 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO)
•	 Rural Development Administration (RDA), South Korea
•	 Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture (SFSA)
•	 Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation ACP-EU (CTA)
•	 United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
•	 West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA)
•	 West and Central African Council for Agricultural Research and Development (WECARD/CORAF)
•	 World Bank 
AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

33

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Board of Trustees 2017

(As at 31 December 2017)

Chair	
Vice-Chair	

Eric Tollens (Belgium)
Lala Razafinjara (Madagascar)

Members	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Ex-officio	

Comlan Atsu Agbobli (Togo)
David Governey (Ireland)
Masaru Iwanaga (Japan) ‡
Seraphin Kati-Coulibaly (Côte d’Ivoire)
Carol Kramer LeBlanc (USA)
Gordon MacNeil (Canada)
Sylvie Mbog (Cameroon) ‡
Akinori Noguchi *
Gloria Nwakaegho Elemo (Nigeria)
Sophie Thoyer (France)
Harold Roy-Macauley (Sierra Leone), Director General, AfricaRice

* Joined in 2017
‡ Left in 2017

34

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

Training 2017
AfricaRice training
training program
program (courses)
(courses)
AfricaRice

84 Training
Training courses run in 2017
84
courses run in 2017
34Locations
Locations
34

in
in

15 countries
countries
15

12,653 Total
Total trainees
12,653
trainees
Postgraduate trainees
trainees
Postgraduate

28 Total
Total female postgrads
28
female postgrads
47 Total
Total male postgrads
47
male postgrads
From 22 countries
From 22 countries
56 PhD
PhD students
56
students
… of whom

19 MSc
MSc students
19
students
… of whom

… of whom

… of whom

21 Female
Female
21
35 Male
Male
35

7 Female
Female
7
12 Male
Male
12

34 universities
universities
34
In 17 countries
In 17 countries

With
With

19 Funding
Funding sources
19
sources

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

35

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Publications 2017
AfricaRice publications 2017

43 Articles in Thomson Reuters–list journals
33 Articles in other peer-reviewed journals
11 Book chapters
11 Conference papers
7 Articles in Rice Today
3 Others / reports
7 Videos
... in 2 languages
Selected titles in Science Citation Index (SCI) and Science Citation Index Expanded (SCIE) journals
Amponsah SK, Addo A, Dzisi KA, Moreira J and Ndindeng SA. 2017. Performance evaluation and field characterization
of the sifang mini rice combine harvester. Applied Engineering in Agriculture. 33(4): 479–489.
Arouna A, Lokossou JC, Wopereis MCS, Bruce-Oliver S and Roy-Macauley H. 2017. Contribution of improved rice
varieties to poverty reduction and food security in sub-Saharan Africa. Global Food Security. 14: 54–60.
Bah S, van der Merwe V and Labuschagne MT. 2017. Estimation of outcrossing rates in intraspecific (Oryza sativa) and
interspecific (Oryza sativa × Oryza glaberrima) rice under field conditions using agro-morphological markers. Euphytica.
213:81.
Djaman K, Balde AB, Rudnick DR, Ndiaye O and Irmak S. 2017. Long-term trend analysis in climate variables and
agricultural adaptation strategies to climate change in the Senegal River Basin. International Journal of Climatology.
37(6): 2873–2888.
Djaman K, Mel VC, Balde AB, Bado BV, Diop L, Manneh B, Mutiibwa D, Rudnick D, Irmak S and Futakuchi K.
2017. Evapotranspiration, irrigation water requirement and water productivity of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in the Sahelian
environment. Paddy and Water Environment. 15(3): 469–482.

36

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Dossou-Yovo ER, Baggie I, Djagba JF and Zwart SJ. 2017. Diversity of inland valleys and opportunities for agricultural
development in Sierra Leone. PLoS ONE 12(6): e0180059. https://doi.o rg/ 10.1371/journal.pone. 0180059.
El-Namaky and van Oort PAJ. 2017. Phenology, sterility and inheritance of two environment genic male sterile (EGMS)
lines for hybrid rice. Rice. 10(1): 31.
Kabiri S, Rodenburg J, van Ast A and Bastiaans L. 2017. Slavery in plants: How the facultative hemi-parasitic plant
Rhamphicarpa fistulosa can completely dominate its host. Annals of Applied Biology. 171(3): 353–363
Kamanda J, Birner R and Bantilan C. 2017. The “efficient boundaries” of international agricultural research: A conceptual
framework with empirical illustrations. Agricultural Systems. 150: 78-85.
Kini K, Agnimonhan R, Afolabi O, Soglonou B, Silué D and Koebnik R. 2017. First report of a new bacterial leaf blight
of rice caused by Pantoea ananatis and Pantoea stewartii in Togo. Plant Disease. 101: 241.
Mapiemfu DL, Ndindeng SA, Ambang Z, Tang EN, Ngome F, Johnson JM, Tanaka A and Saito K. 2017. Physical rice
grain quality as affected by biophysical factors and pre-harvest practices. International Journal of Plant Production. 11(4):
1735–8043.
Ndjiondjop MN, Semagn K, Gouda AC, Kpeki SB, Dro Tia D, Sow M, Goungoulou A, Sie M, Perrier X, Ghesquiere
A and Warburton ML. 2017. Genetic variation and population structure of Oryza glaberrima and development of a minicore collection using DArTseq. Frontiers in Plant Science. 8:1748.
Niang, A., Becker, M., Ewert, F., Dieng, I., Gaiser, T., Tanaka, A., Senthilkumar, K., Rodenburg, J., Johnson, J.M., Akakpo, C., Segda, Z., Gbakatchetche, H., Jaiteh, F., Bam, R.K., Dogbe, W., Keita, S., Kamissoko, N., Mossi, I.M.,
Bakare, O.S., Cissé, M., Baggie, I., Ablede, K,A, Saito, K. 2017. Variability and determinants of yields Rice farmers’
perceptions on mechanical weeders 11 in rice production systems of West Africa. Field Crops Research 207: 1-12. http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.fcr.2017.02.014.
Rodenburg J, Cissoko M, Kayongo N, Dieng I, Bisikwa J, Irakiza R, Masok I, Midega CAO and Scholes JD. 2017.
Genetic variation and host–parasite specificity of Striga resistance and tolerance in rice: the need for predictive breeding.
New Phytologist. 214: 1267–1280.
Saito K. 2017. Variability and determinants of yields in rice production systems of West Africa. Field Crops Research.
207: 1–12.
Tanaka A, Johnson JM, Senthilkumar K, Akakpo C, Segda Z, Yameogo LP, Bassoro I, Lamare DM, Allarangaye MD,
Gbakatchetche H, Bayuh BA, Jaiteh F, Bam RK, Dogbe W, Sékou K, Rabeson R, Rakotoarisoa NM, Kamissoko N, Mossi
IM, Bakare OS, Mabone FL, Gasore ER, Baggie I, Kajiru GJ, Mghase J, Ablede KA, Nanfumba D and Saito K. 2017. Onfarm rice yield and its association with biophysical factors in sub-Saharan Africa. European Journal of Agronomy. 85: 1–11.
Tippe DE, Rodenburg J, van Ast A, Anten NPR, Dieng I, Kayeke J, Cissoko M and Bastiaans L. 2017. Delayed or early
sowing: Timing as parasitic weed control strategy in rice is species and ecosystem dependent. Field Crops Research. 214:
14–24.
van Oort PAJ, Saito K, Dieng I, Grassini P, Cassman KG and van Ittersum MK. 2017. Can yield gap analysis be used to
inform R&D prioritisation? Global Food Security. 12: 109–118.
Wu W,Liu X, Wang M, Meyer RS, Luo X, Ndjiondjop MN, Tan L, Zhang J, Wu J, Cai H, Sun C, Wang X, Wing RA
and Zhu Z. A single-nucleotide polymorphism causes smaller grain size and loss of seed shattering during African rice
domestication. Nature Plants 3, 17064.
Zossou E, Arouna A, Diagne and Agboh-Noameshi AR. 2017. Gender gap in acquisition and practice of agricultural
knowledge: Case study of rice farming in west Africa. Experimental Agriculture. 53(4): 566–577.

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

37

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Abbreviations
AfDB	

African Development Bank

AfricaRice	

Africa Rice Center

AGRA	

Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa

a.k.a.	

also known as

AKRiL 	

Africa–Korea Rice Breeding Lab

ARICA	

Advanced Rice for Africa (varieties)

AWD	

alternate wetting and drying

CAADP	

Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme

CAAS	

Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences

CIAT	

International Center for Tropical Agriculture

CIPRiSSA	

Continental Investment Plan for Accelerating Rice Self-Sufficiency in Africa

CIRAD	

Centre de coopération internationale en recherche agronomique pour le développement (France)

CoM	

Council of Ministers (AfricaRice)

DonDev	

Center on Conflict and Development at Texas A&M University

doi / DOI	

Digital Object Identifier

GAP	

good agricultural practice

GARDIAN	

Global Agricultural Research Data Innovation & Acceleration Network

CKAN	

Comprehensive Knowledge Archive Network

GREAT	

Gender-Responsive Researchers Equipped for Agricultural Transformation

GYGA	

Global Yield Gap Atlas (project)

ha	hectare
IFAD	

International Fund for Agricultural Development

IFPRI	

International Food Policy Research Institute

IRD	

Institut de recherche pour le développement (France)

IRRI	

International Rice Research Institute

KAFACI	

Korea–Africa Food and Agriculture Cooperation Initiative

kg	kilogram
Mt	

million tonnes

NARS	

national agricultural research system(s)

NERICA	

New Rice for Africa (family of interspecific rice varieties for uplands)

NERICA-L	

New Rice for Africa (family of interspecific rice varieties for lowlands)

PhD	

Doctor of Philosophy (doctoral degree)

RDA	

Rural Development Administration (Republic of Korea)

RICE	

CGIAR Research Program on Rice

38

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

SARD-SC	

Support to Agricultural Research for Development of Strategic Crops in Africa (project)

SNP	

single-nucleotide polymorphism

SSARSSA	

Support System for Accelerating Rice Self-Sufficiency in Africa

STRASA	

Stress Tolerant Rice for Poor Farmers in Africa and South Asia (project)

TAAT	

Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation (project)

US	

United States

USA	

United States of America

WAAPP	

West Africa Agricultural Productivity Program

WECARD/CORAF	

West and Central African Council for Research and Development

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

39

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

40

AfricaRice Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

About CGIAR
CGIAR is a global research partnership for a food-secure future. CGIAR science is dedicated to reducing
poverty, enhancing food and nutrition security, and improving natural resources and ecosystem services. Its
research is carried out by 15 CGIAR Centers in close collaboration with hundreds of partners, including national and regional research institutes, civil society organizations, academia, development organizations and
the private sector.
For more information, visit www.cgiar.org

The Centers
AfricaRice 			

Africa Rice Center (Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire)

Bioversity 			

Bioversity International (Rome, Italy)

CIAT				

International Center for Tropical Agriculture (Cali, Colombia)

CIFOR				

Center for International Forestry Research (Bogor, Indonesia)

CIMMYT			

International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (Mexico, DF, Mexico)

CIP				

International Potato Center (Lima, Peru)

ICARDA				

International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (Beirut, Lebanon)

ICRISAT				

International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (Patancheru, India)

IFPRI				

International Food Policy Research Institute (Washington, DC, USA)

IITA				

International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (Ibadan, Nigeria)

ILRI				

International Livestock Research Institute (Nairobi, Kenya)

IRRI				

International Rice Research Institute (Los Baños, Philippines)

IWMI				

International Water Management Institute (Colombo, Sri Lanka)

World Agroforestry 		

World Agroforestry Centre (Nairobi, Kenya)

WorldFish 			

WorldFish Center (Penang, Malaysia)

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Africa Rice Center (AfricaRice)
01 BP 4029, Abidjan 01, Côte d’Ivoire
Telephone: (225) 22 48 09 10 Fax: (225) 22 44 26 29 Email: AfricaRice@cgiar.org
www.AfricaRice.org

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

